ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! 146 MPs have been registered. There's a quorum. I'm opening today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, I should like to introduce you to a communication, namely: in the National Assembly's case-law yesterday, June 29th, an application was received by the National Representative Elena Guncheva with the following text: I withdraw my application under art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, with which I have resigned to the President of the National Assembly. Please, the application by which the resignation was submitted in accordance with art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to be left without consequences. In this regard, an application was also received from Mrs. Elena Guncheva, with the following content: In the present case, on the basis of art. 14, para. 3 in connection with para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform you that I am leaving the Parliamentary Group of ARCHER and declaring myself a Member of the National Assembly. In view of the two reports concerning the two applications received on 29 June 2022 by the National Representative Elena Guncheva, I inform you of the following: 1. With the first of them, the national representative withdraws his application under art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, with which she resigned as MP, that she wished to be left without consequences. Pursuant to Decision No 2 of 2018 of the Constitutional Tribunal No 8 of 2017: The Parliamentary procedure for acceptance of resignation was established in the interest of the applicant MP and its continuation was therefore bound by its last free will. Therefore, and in view of the last expressed will of the Member of the National Assembly, the termination of its powers should not be proposed to the National Assembly. 2. With the second application, the People's Representative Elena Tsoneva Guncheva informs that she is leaving the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT on the grounds of art. 14, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and is declared to be a Member of the National Assembly not members of a parliamentary group. In relation to the leaving of the parliamentary group of a party ARRANGEMENT by the MP Elena Tsoneva Guncheva according to art. 19th para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Presidents, Vice-Presidents and the members of the Standing Committees shall be released early upon termination of their membership in the Parliamentary Group from whose quota they have been elected. On this basis, the people's representative Elena Tsoneva Guncheva as a member of the Committee on Health and as a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is released. In accordance with art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly shall be announced without discussion and voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u2	Backstage and the Mafia, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u3	I can't tell you, Mr. Karadaye. Everyone has a right to an opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u4	Long live democracy!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u5	We continue with item one of the agenda for the week, precisely: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF BULGARIA FOR 2022 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. A discussion is currently open on paragraphs 1 to 14 inclusive. On them we will debate today by sayings Hristo Gadzhev, Petar Petrov, Lubomir Karimanski, Plamen Abrovski, Nikolay Drenchev, Krasimir Valchev and Temenuzhka Petkova. For speech are recorded: Nastimir Ananiev, Mladen Marinov, Hristo Terziyski, Irena Dimova, Delyan Dobrev, Iskra Mihailova, Zhecho Stankov and Tsoncho Ganev. Colleagues, from the names I've read, if anyone would like to speak. Mr. Ananiev? You have the floor. I'm also recording Mr. Nenkov and Mrs. Taneva. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Yes, Mrs. Atanasova, I apologize, and you, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My speech relates to the part in the budget that is on transport. Mr. Svilenski and I have proposed two things related to the carriage of passengers on non-costable bus lines, with the measure being for 16.5 million, and for the carriage of passengers on the long-distance bus lines That wouldn't be the accent of my speech. In fact, I wanted to talk about the money that was approved by the new majority for Sofia Municipality. That's 74 million. BGN, which actually go to a trading company. A trading company where there is little transparency, we don't know what's happening, we don't know how it spends its money, but at some point it turns out that we have to give it 74 million. lv. And don't forget, this is from the entire budget of the state's taxpayers will pay that 74 million. lv. Given that the budget of Sofia Municipality is over 2 billion. BGN, it turns out that they want additional money from the state. But what do we want? We want transparency, we want to know why he needs that money. I listened to Mayor Fandakova's explanations at the Commission, but I didn't hear any specifics about why they needed the money. Yeah, they're used to spending, spending a lot of money, but when it's a crisis, there has to be transparency. They have to show for the last five years what revenue they've been getting into the company, how they've spent themselves, who's been taking what salaries. Unfortunately, in Sofia Municipality there is no transparency that should exist. There are also many suspicious deals, schemes, corruption scandals. I don't think Sophia's money is being spent the right way. From this point of view, I don't see why we're giving 74 million without knowing where they're going, if there's any reform, isn't there one in general. Sofia's transport is important. In the Transport Commission there were representatives of the trade unions who said: "The drivers must get their salaries. "................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And why can't Sophia do it on her own? This is the capital! We said 2 billion budget. I don't think we should give away 74 million. lv. in this direction, because exactly the same way any municipality can say that there is a need because the use of transport services has decreased. And not only that, we heard three days ago that the public transport ticket was being lifted. Of course it was hidden in 30 minutes, 60 minutes. They said that on average 40 minutes of people using urban transport are used, which means that the new price of BGN 2.20. Most users will pay for it. In a word, they're raising the cost of public transport, asking for 74 million of the budget. For me, this is absolutely unprincipled and insolent. So, colleagues, although this has passed the Commission with the new majority, I do not think it is right to support myself, as it becomes that okay, Fandakova has the people of GERB who protect, of course, with the new majority of aging, from the DPS, part of the ITN, they will support these solutions. They have already supported them in the Commission, but it is not right for me to do this. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. For the first line, Alexander Ivanov. Mr. Nenkov, you will speak later.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Ananiev, I cannot agree with much of the things you said, all the more so that my colleague Nenkov and I are importers of this proposal. You remember for sure the Budget Committee with the budget review for this year February we commented on the topic. I'll start backwards. Firstly, Sofia Municipality is developing a new transport service mechanism and pricing, but you are speculating little about raising the price of the ticket. Rather, perhaps you are familiar with the answer to the Sofia Municipality of the Council of Ministers when requesting assistance for the implementation of a transport service, where the Council of Ministers simply clearly states to the Sofia Municipality and the capital citizens, increase the price of the ticket. To motivate the proposal we made with my colleague Nenkov. It is justified in relation to the fact that there have been accumulated losses in the capital transport companies in the three companies................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And they, Commissioner Ananiev, are mostly related to the health crisis, the CIVID-19, which, you remember, the previous two years at times had reduced by 70% of the travelers using Sofia City Transport. In this regard, respectively, the continuity of urban transport required that the lines continue to move, unfortunately, however, the workload was 70% less than the period without a health crisis. Let us also say that the Sofia transport and that part of it, which uses electricity to carry out continuity of the service, has increased many times. I hope that today the National Assembly will adopt a decision to compensate electricity for consumers on the free market, because the Council of Ministers has once again placed the National Assembly in a pathetic situation when it has not proposed one. I hope that today we will make a wise decision in this House so that we do not cause even greater inflation. Agree that the price of electricity is paid by all users of this energy. It has certainly also led to an unforeseen large cost which has not been fully compensated for these three companies from Sofia transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u9	Thank you. Second line, though, let's take turns in the Jordan of Terziyski. Third line, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ananiev, as a whole I agree with the things you said, but one thing I do not agree with is that there is complete ambiguity about the money that is being spent. Well, I'll give you some clarity and I hope you'll comment. Are you aware of the cost of a kilometer that Sofia Municipality pays to the carrier? That's five leva. About a mile away. And do you know what price it pays to the private carrier? 3 BGN. per kilometer, i.e. the municipality pays to its own, to the municipal company, at almost twice the price than to the private carrier. We also have to ask ourselves the question at what price the municipal company buys fuel and gas and whether this happens in a transparent procedure. So is it not happening in this situation that we are pouring money into a rotten landing that fills the holes in the streets of Sofia, and do we not do so that citizens from all over Bulgaria with the budget that is collected, pay for the thefts in Sofia and pay for the transportation of Sofians? Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u11	Thank you, Mr. Terziysky. Third line, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ananiev, I do not want to pick on you in a small way, because it is clear now that we will be doing an election campaign how Sofia is managed. Sofia is clearly well managed, but that's not my topic. I want to know more about your conceptual thinking, Mr. Ananiev. Let's remember. Remember the 1990s, private routes appeared in Sofia. This was the first attempt at smooth privatisation of urban transport. What emerged as a result of the experience was that the routers at the beginning the idea was to be such unpopular lines to serve, however, it turned out that the private business wanted to concentrate on the popular lines in order to rob the main route. A savage competition between private lines and municipal transport has started at one point either the urban transport should be privatized, and the logic of private business is to remain only prestigious lines. Look, private business doesn't serve where there's no profits, and that's the logic of private business, or I just had to push the routes a little bit and stay municipal city transport, which means you understand my logic, and I want to understand yours. City transport is a loser in general. There are activities that are loss-making in general, but which have shown our practice over the past 30 years that they cannot be left to private business because, if left to private business, they will go bankrupt, that is, the state and municipalities are forced to finance certain activities because there is no one else to carry them out. And you can see that, by the way, on the small long-distance lines. You see that dozens, hundreds of settlements are currently left without transport because transport has been privatized and private business has no interest in doing so. Can you tell me conceptually what your view of this problem is? Because, let's say that in Sofia, the price of tickets should be raised, but this will solve absolutely nothing in the transport policy of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u13	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev. However, at the second reading of the budget we are............................................................ if we are going to comment on such issues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen replicating! Yes, concepts will not develop, but logic must be clear to absolutely all who manage public resources. Even though you're hidden under a trading company that's 100% municipal property, you're still managing public resources because that 74 million will be headed that way. So, Mr. Cholakov, you said we were commenting on a small matter. Seventy-four million is small?! Yes, I know that at GERB with billions of work on drawers, but 74 million is not any small amount, excuse me very much. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] The other thing Mr. Ivanov said about the accumulated losses. Yes, there are accumulated losses, but why don't you tell me why they have to pay expensive electricity? I'll tell you why. Because you ruined the long-term contracts those power companies had. They were going to pay low electricity now, but you ruined them. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Why did you ruin these long-term contracts? To pay high heels. People have always shared the country and the Sofians in Bulgaria. You continue this division. Why should the country pay the Sofian bill? Why do we have to make this division all the time? The other thing, Mr. Ivanov, you said about the coffin. Remember, we didn't close the country during the casket, you closed it! And since the state was working, that argument is out of the question. The state was working in our time, it wasn't closed. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Terziysky, yes, you confirmed what I said. Two leva difference is paid per kilometer in favour of these companies. This is the management of Sofia Municipality, when handing out the money to all the capitalists, handing them out as much as the private companies receive three leva, handing them out to five leva two leva top, but still not enough. We want to find out why it's not enough. These companies, which were listed by Mr. Ivanov, to come out with full transparency, to show their accounts, to come out and say that the last five years here we have spent the money, to see if anyone is responsible to reach these companies so that we can give them 74 million. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Christo Terziysky has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, a proposal has been made by our parliamentary group on the basis of art. 79 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which concerns an increase in funds for the Ministry of Interior. We proposed in art. 1, para. For structural changes and effective management, including for the payment of public sector benefits, as well as for the increase of staff remuneration after structural changes, the number In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 5 to add a new order, which is entitled "Area of Internal Order and Security" in art. 1, para. 5 A new line is created and a new line is created for the increase of the salaries of the employees in the Ministry of Interior. Our reasons for this proposal are, first of all, inflation, which official statistics show is already around 16%, and most likely by the end of the year it will exceed 20%. Secondly, employees working in a system of the Ministry of Interior do not have the opportunity to pursue other professions through which to increase their income and, at the same time, employees are exposed to serious corruption pressure, where countering can only be effective with serious pay for their work. On the other hand, the last few GERB governments had the political will, knowledge and skills, so that every year from several years back pay in the Ministry of Interior would grow by 10% each year and the last 2020. The budget for 2021 has been increased by 15%. Thus, the total amount between 2017 and 2021. The overall rate was around 63%. So we are committed to this policy of raising income in the Ministry of Interior. As we know, at the beginning of the formation of this government by the ruling coalition, parameters were set for wage increases following reforms. That is why our proposal is precisely this sector of this money, designed for structural changes and effective governance, to focus the funds for wage increases. As stated in the public domain by the Minister of Interior, the reform of the Ministry of Interior was carried out 98%. I would like to thank my fellow Members, who are in the Committee on Budget and Finance, for supporting a proposal that is close to ours. At the same time, I would like to call on colleagues who are members of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee whose parties did not support this proposal to increase the budget of the Ministry of Interior, but are members of this committee and know the work of the Ministry of Interior officials how important and how difficult it is to support the proposals for this increase by 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u17	Thank you, Mr. Terziysky. Are there any lines? Here you go. You have the floor, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u18	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Terziysky, allow me to disagree with some of the things you said in this stands. Firstly, I agree with you 150% that the work of employees in the Ministry of Interior must be paid with dignity. This increase should have been a little more if it were up to me. I know that you, thinking from the position of a former minister, and colleague Kiril Ananiev and he thinks as a very serious statesman, have limited yourself to this increase, because that is really how it is done, so it must be balanced all of this. But I do not agree with that part of your speech, which refers to 98% of the completed reform of the Ministry of Interior. I dare say, honourable colleague, that this harmful to the Ministry of Interior Minister is the one who is confused in his mathematical models, blocking, dislocating, waving, destroying police stations, police stations and so on, I am not convinced that he will be able to distribute these funds fairly. And my question, if you want me to be specific to you, is: you have, I hope, done a very serious analysis along with the unions, I repeat, along with the unions. Because, I know that in the Ministry of Interior, the Minister didn't do such a thing in connection with the distribution of these funds that we are additionally granting them. And the joyous thing about the end, just to finish, is that this leadership of the Ministry is actually going away and that's the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u19	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Are there any other lines? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Terziyski, I just want to clarify, and in relation to the reply of my colleague, that he doubted that the allocation of funds might not be done properly, or, however, I did not understand it, I just want to clarify the following after the proposal made by the Member There is such a people, as you said, we have come close to the figure that you are proposing, i.e. the Commission has supported an increase in the staff budget of 175 million. BGN, explicitly recording that the increase in wages will be 20% from 1 July, i.e. it will not be related to structural changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Trajanska. Third line? I can't see. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Terziysky? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Manev, first 98% reform in the Ministry of Interior I said it in quotes, you must have misunderstood me. The reforms made by the Interior Minister now have a reflection in the form of complaints from citizens, municipal councils, municipal mayors from settlements where districts and police stations are reduced. Working with the trade unions requires extremely such commitments in this direction, but everything really needs to be negotiated as far as possible, and that is why, in the Budget Committee, colleagues from our Parliamentary Group have really agreed to the proposal of "There is such a people" which Mrs Trajanska mentioned. I fully agree with you that, indeed, these funds, which are intended for the Ministry of Interior, must be given and I agree with what has been signed up as a proposal by the Budget Commission I think that the current Minister of the Interior in resignation will not be able to cope with this commitment, but alive and well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u23	Thank you, Mr. Terziysky. Now Mladen Marinov. Here you go, Mr. Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be in favour of Mr. Terziyski's previous speech. As a longtime employee of the Ministry of Interior, I know exactly how responsible and busy police work is. We live in extremely difficult times. You see that we are facing a crisis after a crisis, you know why a vote of distrust of the government was also voted on, namely: for failure in the financial and social sphere; increased prices; inflation; shortage, reduction and eating of wages. And that is exactly where our proposal for a 20% increase from 1 July on police salaries is going. In fact, this is such a late action, but unfortunately, this is the first opportunity in which we can offer such an increase, because in fact this is already a compensation due to excessive inflation. Official statistics give 1%, but I have to tell you that the majority of police officers live below the average for Bulgaria and their consumer basket is actually much higher. I will not list what Mr Terziyski said that they are deprived of the right to work further, have almost no possibility of further material stimulation, including you know that the Ministry's system is perhaps the only ministry that has no right to allocate additional funds from some economy or due to their activities to counter crime. In these circumstances, I think and call on all MPs to rise above political bias and support this proposal. I would also like to thank my colleagues from the Commission who supported this proposal, although slightly reduced to what GERB-SDS is proposing. But I want to tell you that the policy that GERB led in all the governments was to really raise the standard and pay of police officers. I know what the problem was when there were no job applicants. As a result of increased wages, we were able to fill the shortage of 2,000 employees in the Ministry, which directly affected the fight against crime, domestic crime. You know what the statistics were, and you see at the moment how the situation with regard to domestic crime is deteriorating sharply, with regard to illegal migration, you see that much of the police forces are targeting the border. In a commentary on the reform, I would like to say to you that due to this reform, also in quotes, a large part of the Bulgarian population will be deprived of security, it will be deprived of the possibility to carry out the relevant administrative services under which it will cause people to travel more. Not to mention that police officers will spend more time on the road to the precinct and vice versa than on the territory and working on the tasks they have. This is how I hear and receive information that, in fact, in a year of reform, police officers will have to buy their own uniforms, as the process of providing uniforms for police officers will most likely not happen, which is also a very big problem, because the prices of all supplies jump, therefore the uniform will become more expensive, and the ministry has not provided money and especially uniforms that they will receive in intelligence. In this regard, I appeal again to all of us to outgrow our party biases and support this proposal, which is the least we can do to stimulate these employees because we have difficult times ahead of us, and in such times they are always on the front line. Thank you, I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u25	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. Are there any lines? Here's Mr. Petrov's first line, Mr. Mitev's second and Mr. Manev's third.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Mr. Marinov, you, as a longtime employee of the Ministry of Interior, would you answer the question: is it right for you to exclude from the proposed update by the Council of Ministers under an urgent budget update in this context? Next, you mentioned that money would not be enough to buy clothing. Would you, if you know, specify specifically: is it true that these provided 800 leva. A year for the purchase of uniforms on the part of the new management will not be enough for anything, as some two winter and two summer uniforms cost extremely much and that they benefit from the employees who receive these miserable salaries for the whole month at a limitless time available, during which they should be ready to call something that for a salary between 1300. It's unacceptable to me? You mentioned that the crime rate is getting worse, the situation is getting worse. Do you think that if we have evidence that domestic crime is increasing, shouldn't the ministry do everything in your opinion to keep the footage and make sure that they don't really have to try to get any extra income? We can't judge people. As for example, private sector employees, who really have to work in two jobs. These are my questions, if you could give us some clarification, because we are not inside the system, we have not been, and I think that for us and the other MPs would be really useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u27	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Here you go, Mr. Mitev, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u28	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, Mr. Marinov, I think that the whole room and everyone here realize the need to update the remuneration of people who care about the order and security in the country, who are in the most difficult situations and protect the National Assembly, also protect every Bulgarian citizen from crime. We wanted to do this through reform and to do it in a fair way so that the people who work the most are best rewarded, that there are no people in the ranks of the Ministry of Interior, who are with TelK, can be retired people who are in retirement age and thus free places for new staff. Unfortunately, we have failed to reach this point and there will be no reform. The money you offer for an increase for people in the system, however good this proposal is, you said: we have brought down the government because of its poor financial policy. Well, you know, this is all the money you've offered, this nearly 1 billion, which is all the measures of the new majority that have been voted along with everyone, and of course we know with the golden finger of whom the 1 billion. come thanks to the good financial policy that we have implemented, and you cannot deny that, because it is a fact. Despite the two billion we made, an extra billion and a half for pensioners, all the money that follows and which was voted on by the Committee on Budget and Finance, all these nearly 900 million, and they are becoming more and more with every proposal from this platform, they will be able to be implemented thanks to the good financial policy that was being led by the government. So every time you go out on this stand and say, yes, it's a very good offer, there are very nice proposals, Mr. Marinov, it's important where the money comes from. And the money will come thanks to the good financial policy that was being conducted and which is why you requested our resignation. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u29	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Marinov! Let's finally get into the details of what you're saying about our proposals. The first detail is that if it is not a secret for my colleagues, let me announce it to all of you. I agreed to make an offer to increase and to give this money in this budget only because this government is resigned, that this interior minister and his entire cabinet are resigned. Otherwise, I would in no way support the fact that this leadership of the Ministry of Interior would be given more money. There's a lot of reasons. The colleague who spoke before me started to speak some memorable phrases. However, I will give him concrete facts. Remember on the previous budget, we here with you, Mr. Marinov, and colleague Terziyski, and other colleagues were talking about 10 million. I think they were, for sport? Remember? [[Heckling]] Was it nine? Nine, yeah. For nine million would be given fitness cards to policemen to go to gyms to train. At my question at the previous meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, it turns out that the Minister does not remember such money. He doesn't know that we've given it to him in the budget and, in fact, 9 million. Nobody in the ministry knows where they are. Nobody. Well, how do we pay more wages and expect this thing to get to the cops? Well, I'll tell you why I'm worried. Because there is a case which, you ministers gentlemen and colleagues who have been in the system, know very well. The Minister must decide now that the money we are giving in the budget, how it will be allocated to all employees, to any system, by any percentage, or will be chosen, or equal to all... how he will want it. And I do not trust this leadership that it will fairly distribute these funds. Mr. Marinov, you say about the uniforms and here the colleague falls into details. Well, let's just say that soon we'll have the employees of the Ministry of Interior, the police buying tires for the cars for the service cars.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u31	Mr. Manev, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u32	...because that's off, too. So, Mr. Marinov, please explain in just a few words: do you believe that this guide can handle the distribution of these funds that we give, and they will reach the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u33	Thank you, Mr. Manev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Petrov, I'll answer your questions first. The problem of uniformed clothing at the Ministry of Interior has always been there and we have always done our best to solve it according to the possibilities. My concern is that in one year, what we had achieved in terms of uniformed clothing was ruined. In one year, not a step forward was taken to improve the situation, and you see the prices and consumables for this uniformed outfit what values they accept. Currently with this delayed reaction 800 leva. are extremely insufficient for the service of a police officer to say that he is entering the service and must take his entire outfit, as for those who have been in the service for a longer period of time, there is an overlap and can still deal with this problem more or less, but we are talking about the policemen who enter the service. Naturally, crime problems are closely linked to the motivation for the work of police officers, their numbers and the opportunity to cover most of the territory of the settlements and the country. Naturally, their mobility is important. In this regard, I will respond to my colleague Manev. I do hear that there are problems with car insurance, and not only with their tire assembly, but also with the repair of the cars, the timely repair. I even know that there is a problem with the insurance of these cars and it is most likely that the reform is such that nothing is done and everything that has been done is denied. Mr. Mitev, you're a young man. [[Heckling]] Mr. Mitev, can we hear you? [[Heckling]] I guess the question was just protocol.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u35	Mr. Mitev, you are addressed...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u36	I'm answering to you, please! You are a young man, but you should know that every reform is done primarily with money. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u37	Colleagues, can you take your seats as Mr. Marinov speaks to Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u38	In order to make a successful reform, there must be appropriate funding, which is not only for salaries, we must have funding to replace, to technicalise police activity, to develop video surveillance, information systems. We can't make all the police hostages about whether a political leadership is capable of making a reform. I'd call that political racketeering. Because we are making hostages for all police officers in terms of the ability of a political leadership to make the reform. What if he can't?! That means cops have to walk on low wages without uniforms and have nothing to patrol with. I would disagree with such thinking, and I believe that in order for there to be a good reform, there must be funding, there must be a plan, there must be sufficient awareness of people for the purposes and the way in which the reform will be carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u39	The weather, Mr. Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u40	With regard to retired employees who are still working, I know that this is a number that cannot be compensated in the next four or five years, because a police officer is being built a long time, and I think this should be a longer process and we should not expose the system with such solutions. With regard to sports funds, Mr. Manev, I look at colleagues, I think they don't have time to go home and exercise by going on patrol all day. But it's really important where the money goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u41	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. I call if possible to stick to the time though, I am tolerant enough, but still a minute more is a minute more. Mrs. Irena Dimova, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u42	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, all I'm asking is that if I exceed the time, you give me an advance of one minute, it's still 15 paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u43	That's right, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u44	Thank you in advance. Colleagues, I will introduce you to the situation at the moment in the municipalities and present to you our proposal related to the municipalities. What's going on out there right now? Expectations are high. More and more powers are concentrated there in the local government. This, as I have always said, is understandable because it is closest to people and knows their needs. All the problems that come to the settlement in every settlement first reach the mayor. I don't need to explain it to you. But what's happening right now? The resources and staff at the disposal of the municipalities are extremely insufficient. Even in the update of the budget in pero "Species" was offered zero leva. Did you know that the government and the local government are two different shores? Did you know that for the first time, even in the office, there was no dialogue between the municipalities and a government and a prime minister. Well, that's already happened! What do we suggest? We're offering 100 million. lv. a target subsidy for the public administration, for employees in the public administration. Why do you have to do that? According to NSI data, 21, 060 people work in the municipal administration. These employees provide two thirds of public services in the country of citizens and businesses, as well as fulfill over 800 obligations, which have been incorporated into eight codes, 130 laws and over 500 regulations. The municipalities provide 37 percent of the electronic administrative services in the country. What is it now? Three times is the difference between employees in the central administration and employees in the municipal administration, three times is the difference in their salaries! On the budget, I and colleagues have alerted you that an increase of 1.6 year-on-year will result in a lack of willing staff in the administration. We've alerted you that we're aligning low-skilled labor to high-skilled architects. We've alerted you that it's hard to find these people in the city. Finally, we will make sure that there is no one to carry out the duties and duties assigned to the municipality. That's our offer. 100 million. lv. Zoom in! Here is the time to thank the Commission for agreeing and accepting 30 million. And 300,000. lv. for an increase as presented in the letter of the municipalities to Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova. For this letter, I would like to say that there was no reflection in the budget again. Our other offer is 150 million. lv. for an increase in capital expenditure. Here I want to take you back a little bit.. what happened to the budget: cameras, fanfare, promises, 418 million transferred to MRRB, in which it was promised that municipalities will be provided with funding on road projects and water projects. During this time, you had the entire administration complete their ready-made projects related to this activity to send them to MRRB. On May 13, the procedure was supposedly initiated. Do you know what's happening right now? Nothing! At the Committee on Regional Development, the resigned minister said there was no money in the municipalities of the 418 million. lv. I wanted to say, and that 418 million. lv., which you promised, plus 80 million. lv. up to BGN 500 million. There's no investment in the municipalities! What we're offering is 150 million. lv. for an increase in capital expenditure. Once again, I thank the Commission for reaching an agreement and voting 100 million. lv. And most importantly, why are we offering it? Because, colleagues, at the moment is what happens in municipalities. Builders refuse to perform won and uninitiated objects. Do you know why? Because they've calculated that the penalty they're going to pay will be cheaper than finishing an object. And the last thing I want to say. I will only read you because I do not have time, a proposal of the MP Iskren Mitev and a group of MPs. This is for the creation of a new paragraph: I propose the following amendments and additions to art. You will read it, I just want to draw your attention to this paragraph. This is the paragraph that proves that you are not even able to carry out the structural changes that were laid down for you in the coalition agreement, which is to return the money to BABB and IAG to the place where they are, because you admit that this reform will not become something that we have also alerted you to the budget and asked you repeatedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any lines? [[Heckling]] I'll give one to a group. First of all, Mr. Svilensky said they didn't speak this morning. Then Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u46	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Dimova, I may not be speaking anymore, but to assure you that we will support these proposals from GERB. All proposals for 100 million BGN, for 200 million BGN, if it's for salaries, for raising incomes, we'll support them. But I have one question: why didn't you do it for 12 years? You managed the state and now it turns out to be the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to raise both the scientists and the universities and the administration in this building should raise the money, and the district governments should raise the money, and the municipal administrations should. [[strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS]] Everyone wants to raise their money, and now you've brought it in as an offer for which I congratulate you. But where have you been for 12 years to pick them up so that now you can gradually get all of this? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Don't worry, not all of us together! I can't answer all of them! One at a time! Take it easy, guys! Don't get excited! Take it easy! I wish you: "Enjoy your work today! "
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u47	It will be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u48	It was quiet before the BSP group came in. Second line, Mr. Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Dimova, it's on someone else's wallet and $100 million, isn't it? Yeah, you've got your majority, you'll vote whatever you decide, no problem with that. The point is that the money you are talking about in the MRRB is there, they are taken by the API and are placed 418 million are allocated for projects, ask Minister Karadzhov to distribute them to the municipalities. As on the first February budget we gave away for capital expenditures of all municipalities we are not like GERB, to ours, yours, to good, to bad, all municipalities received what they had to receive. But the 418 million are there. There are them in the accounts of MRRB, the projects are also submitted by the municipalities. The point is that Minister Karadjov should just distribute them and distribute them to the municipalities. Of course, with some criterion, because without a criterion it will be difficult or there may be some subjectiveism with a criterion this money can reach the municipalities because they are set aside, there is it in the budget, the money is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u50	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. The third line is Kiril Ananiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs Dimova, indeed the proposal made by our parliamentary group, we are taking a step forward with regard to the financing of municipalities. In my opinion, however, this is by no means enough, because neither this 100 million. BGN, which we approved in the Committee on Budget and Finance for Investment, nor 30 million. And 300,000. BGN, which are for remuneration, will be enough. This money will not be enough for remuneration, because it will only affect the increase of some key specialists that municipalities need, and most of the people who work in municipal administrations will not get an increase. That is why I believe that the financing of municipalities should become one of the priorities of the future government and that it should be laid down in the Project Budget for 2023, which is extremely important because Bulgaria consists not only of major cities, but of 265 municipalities, which, as you said, carry out a large part of the administrative service of the population. This will also be our task of the parliamentary group to present as one of the main priorities the budgets of the municipalities for next year. Mr. Mitev and Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, who talked about the revenue that the government made to enable us to make these extraordinary expenses, but that is not true. We did the macroeconomic analysis of the macrogram for 2022 and found it to be wrong and false. Nor have the elements that form this macroeconomic framework been taken into account and which lead to the increase of revenue - confused imports, which expands the tax base, confused inflation, confused deflator - for all of this we sat down, made an assessment and proved in the Budget Commission, not only by our parliamentary group, but by all parliamentary groups that there is an opportunity to increase revenues and make appropriate costs without disturbing the budget deficit. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u52	I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. And as for collection, the collection rate for the first four months of this year is 4% lower than the collection rate for last year from January to April, that is, we have a decline in this indicator in revenue collection. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. You have the floor for the duvet, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Svilenski, in four years there has been an increase in the state and municipal administration by 64% in inflation 9%, in four years at 3% per year. At the moment inflation is 15.6% and the increase in municipal administration is 1.6% and not to mention the other income policy. With this, I think I have answered you perfectly and thank you for supporting this increase. Mr. Ananiev, as far as I know, you are the chairman of the Committee on Regional Development, 418 million resigned minister said they were returned to API for roads, highways and money there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u55	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u56	I don't know who's lying. By the way, a word of advice to you. When you announce from this tribune, for example, on the budget you happen to say that mayors are for prosecutors, for ADFIs, and when ADFI finishes their checks on the same mayors, I think it is masculine, dignified and fair as a politician to go out and say: "I was wrong." This is only my advice to you purely friendly. Mr. Ananiev, yes, you're absolutely right they're insufficient, but they're a step and a breath of air to these municipalities, because what I forgot will affect it in the energy aid. One of the demands of the municipalities was for 90 million aid, energy. Colleagues, if this thing doesn't happen, our municipalities will go bankrupt in the fall. Believe me, not just the state, but our municipalities will go bankrupt and our people will stay in the dark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u58	I want the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u59	Okay, just a moment. Personal explanation wants Mr. Mitev to be offended, I can't tell.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will make a personal explanation because Mr. Ananiev addressed me personally in his line. Dear Mr. Ananiev, you are not honored! You've been a professional at the Ministry of Finance and experts who have worked there for years, you know them very well and you've worked with them, and accusing them that they didn't do the macro-ramming well doesn't honor you. [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. Claps by "Keep On Changing."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u61	Thank you, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u62	I want a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u63	Personal explanation of a personal explanation, except in the manner of conduct. You have the right to address me because I think Mr. Mitev wasn't quite personally affected in this case, so I slightly violated him with it. Now I'm going to break it with you a little bit, too, but in the name of peace in the Chamber, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u64	Just one sentence, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Mitev, the Ministry of Finance has excellent experts and specialists. For the first time, for the first year this is not the macroeconomic framework and forecast of the experts from the Ministry of Finance, and this is Mr. Asen Vassilev's forecast. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u65	I'll keep that in mind, Mr. Ananiev. In the manner of conduct you are also welcome in the manner of conduct, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask you to make remarks or possibly call the Minister of Regional Development because Mr. Nastimir Ananiev lied quite uglylyly and can come the Minister to explain. I talked to him. That $400 million was taken out of the budget and sent to API in advance. When I was at the meeting, Mr. Asen Vassilev said that he would recover them later and now Grozdan Karadzhov will be forced to take back that money because it threatens the Republican road network. So you can call the minister, let him come and explain, because Mr. Ananiev not only doesn't understand, but speaks false things.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u67	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. They're about to start some procedures. I'll give Mr. Ananiev the floor for a personal explanation because you said he was lying ugly or something that we can still assume he was affected. The minister can come at any time and take the floor, so you can contact him eventually. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, the only thing I quote is what was answered to the Blitzcontrol by the Minister. There were colleagues from the Regional Commission who could confirm what was said to the blitzcontrol, so what we've been told, that's what I'm saying as information. The fact that he can move them every week has this opportunity. So when did what get moved... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u69	Okay, thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I think that's why we closed this case. While we're cleaning up the microphones, I'd like to announce who they've signed up for right now and say that if anyone who's willing to make a statement from the "There's such a people" or the BSP, I'll put them somewhere on the list so that we can alternate the groups. Next: Bajram Bajram, Delyan Dobrev, Iskra Mihaylova, Zhecho Stankov, Tsoncho Ganev, Desislava Atanasova, Alexander Nenkov, Iskren Arabadzhiev, Desislava Taneva, Alizan Yahova, Alexander Ivanov. Bajram Bajram has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! When we look to the right, we see that from the Council of Ministers, who are resigned, there is no one. In the update of the budget, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance was most regular to be here, but most likely he is not here because the proposals of the Council of Ministers were not adopted, namely the proposals of these political parties, the MPs in the Budget Committee, who know who are the problems of the people, of all citizens, of the business and are concerned about them, and want to solve these problems. Mr. Chairman, if anyone is allowed by the National Assembly to make a remark that political parties and MPs are boycotting Parliament's work, the adoption of the budget, please make a remark because we have heard this over the past few days. I will specifically talk today about municipalities. We, at the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, have clearly stated that the attitude of the former governors is very, very unsatisfactory, arrogant and will lead to problems in the municipal administration. We had then made proposals to increase wages, but it was not accepted by the government. We had made proposals for an increase in the matching subsidy.. in the same way it was not accepted. We had proposed an increase in funds for winter cleaning in the same way was not accepted, and they still did not understand the problems of the Bulgarian municipalities. Most likely one of the reasons is that they have no representatives, no municipal mayors, no municipal administration, and their applications were that they would treat all municipalities equally. We saw they didn't behave equally. We see that the problems are deepening and we have continued with our criticisms over the past months to the former government for the need for additional funds for municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. We have repeatedly asked questions about updating their public sector wage. They were talking about some optimism and fiction, and we told them that when an employee of the municipal administration came home, he couldn't explain to his family the empty refrigerator with the fact that there would be optimization. Again, we have not been heard and in the budget update we have seen that a zero has been allocated to municipalities again. We had a proposal for Bulgarian municipalities to increase wages to 100 million. BGN, for the capital expenditure of 200 million BGN, but at the reception of the revenue we united for an increase in revenues by 760 million. lv. Our proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was worth nearly 900 million. BGN, which prompted us to unite around the decision and we made a proposal from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for 30 million. And 300,000. BGN, which was also a proposal of the Association of Municipalities. Here we should thank all the MPs who supported this proposal, but these were not the former rulers again. Our proposal to increase capital expenditure was worth 200 million. For the same reason, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was proposed to be 100 million. lv. It was also adopted by the MPs, but again the former governors did not support this proposal. This should be stated here that the problems of the Bulgarian municipalities were in depth precisely by the former rulers and they did not have the will to be solved. We also supported... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just a minute or two. We also supported other proposals that are for municipalities, and we must emphasise that we had a proposal for 50 million for municipalities where heating is still on wood and pellets. Later this proposal was united with another and it is a fact in the update of the budget. We supported the 5.5 million offer for municipal museums, supported 150 million for the increase in remuneration and compensation for expenditure in pre-school and school education. Also a very important proposal that we supported was for 20 million for the long haulage and 16.5 million for the non-profitable mountain lines. We categorically state from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms that in the future we will always do everything possible for the better development of Bulgarian municipalities and will always solve as their problems, in the same way the problems of citizens and businesses. And those absent today at the budget update means they've packed their bags and left. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering by DPS: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u71	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Mitev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Bajram! I do not agree with what you said, and it is that we are stopping the work of the National Assembly. Obviously something is cheating on you and you don't remember last week, or this week was already when two days you, GERB, rebirth didn't come to the Chamber to secure a quorum and start voting on the budget. So your claim that we are stopping the work of the National Assembly is absolutely false. Besides, you're using every opportunity to nag us. And yesterday a representative of your group, Mr. Tsonev, came out on the stand and said that the budget delay would happen because, you see, we didn't agree. The truth is, you guys didn't get along. You didn't enter the Chamber, although you didn't have a proposal for a chair, it clearly stopped you and made you block the National Assembly's work for two days. And now the delay in pensions that will happen and the great danger that Bulgarian pensioners cannot receive the update of pensions from tomorrow, because tomorrow must happen, it is your fault. As Nastimir Ananiev said: on a foreign back and 100 million are few. I'll fill it in: on someone else's back and 1 billion is not enough. And something else. The truth is that you may have very nice proposals, but if we hadn't led a good financial policy, they couldn't have been met. So every time you punch yourself in the chest and say: we suggested this, we suggested that, think about who are the people who made it possible for these proposals to be materialized, and people are exactly the people you wanted the resignation from. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u73	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any other lines? If there are no others, please come and get your coat, Mr. Bayram.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, we see that you are the most serious of the Council of Ministers. I was convinced that Mr. Honest Mitev and a strong wind no one could stop them. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS and AGE.]] This is complete nonsense, Mr. Mitev, because when there was no quorum in the National Assembly, there was no review of the budget update. In fact, extraordinary meetings of the Budget Committee were called on Friday, a working group on Saturday, Monday, the Budget and Finance Committee, Thursday and Friday, we have reviewed the budget update. Something can't refresh your memory most likely. You can have a ginkgo biloba to drink, you can refresh your...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u75	Mr. Bayram, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u76	Until the revenue side. Then why is your income offer 760 million less? It's less because you once again didn't properly calculate our country's revenues. From here we have to state, as colleague Chobanov said: budget is not made with Exel, budget is made with brains, Mr. Mitev. Thank you. [[Laughter and applause from GERB-SDS, DPS and AGE.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u77	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. Here you go, Mrs. Trajanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will use the procedure in the manner of conduct, because I have no other way to respond to Mr. Mitev. Mr. Mitev, you're a fast learner. Last week, that was...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u79	No. Make it look like it's towards me. [[Laughter from GERB-SDS and ISN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u80	Yes, Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Vigenin...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u81	I'll tell Mr. Mitev. What do you want me to say to him?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u82	...Mr. Mitev is learning very quickly. [[Laughter from GERB-SDS and ISN.]] Last week, I was listening all the time on the TV saying that the pensioners wouldn't get their pensions, and now he's repeating it from this tribune. It's not right. On the 7th, as is known, Bulgarian pensioners will receive their increased pensions, Mr. Mitev. Tell him, Mr. Vigenin. Thank you. [[Laughter from GERB-SDS and ISN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u83	I'll tell him. I think if we decide, of course, because we still have to accept the budget today, I hope. [[Noise and lines.]] I suggest we don't yell at each other like that in this room. Whoever has to explain to Mr. Mitev, do it outside. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, guys! Just let Mr. Ademov explain it to him because that's how the meeting's work is blocked. Delyan Dobrev has the floor. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsvetan Enchev.]] For a statement? I can't hear you. For procedure. If it's for procedure, please come in now. Sorry, I didn't realize you wanted the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u84	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. Please make remarks to Members of Parliament who allow themselves too much. Lately we've heard how many billions there are on someone else's back. There's no one else's back. The back belongs to all of us, it belongs to the Bulgarian taxpayer. It's not your fault. I don't want anyone to blame me. We're here to work, Mr. Ananiev. Just make some remarks, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for being here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u85	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. I'll keep that in mind, but sometimes image expression makes an impression and it wasn't quite offensive. Now you have the floor, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I will not talk about one piece of fuel, although my colleague Alexander Nenkov very much insists that I say it again, but I take the floor to explain the twenty-five pennies compensation per litre of fuel and why we think they will not do the job. Indeed, 150 million are allocated to the budget for compensation of 25 cents per litre of petrol or diesel. The problem, fellow Members, with this proposal is that in fact it will benefit the most from people who do not need this support, because if you look at the statistics, you will see that an adult, a pensioner loads a full 50 l tank in his car once every two months. The discount for this tank is 12 leva, i.e. the pensioner will receive 6 leva. per month from your program, from what you offer. A working person who goes to work every day fills one tank a month, that is, the working person will receive 12 leva. The Retired 6 working man 12 BGN. However, people with great financial opportunities and people with expensive cars, with SUVs that can afford and go to the Bulgarian Black Sea coast each week, in Greece at sea and so on, they will receive 100 BGN. per month because they charge six-eight tanks each month, i.e. by what you offer, the pensioners will receive 6 BGN, the working Bulgarians will receive 12 BGN. per month, and the rich who do not need this support will receive 100 leva. What was your proposal supposed to be, fellow Members? It had to be targeted. It had to be targeted with some kind of income threshold. You have all the information at the National Revenue Agency. You know every Bulgarian citizen who works, even the unemployed what income they get, for every over 18 years we know what income they get. This database is available and you could determine one criterion. For example BGN 1500. per month, 1000 leva. per month, as much as you determine, you are ultimately the government. And say that not 25 pennies, but the people who receive up to BGN 1500. a month they'd get one lev per liter, not 25 cents, then, colleagues, that help would have gone right to the right place, the people who needed it. Those with jeeps that go to the sea every week would pay for their fuel as much as it costs, but those who charge one tank every two months to go to the villa, or charge one tank a month to go to work every day, would receive real compensation, not the twenty-five pennies that you offer. I raised this issue in the Committee on Budget and Finance and this Commission, Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev said: "Yes, in principle this is correct, but we do not have a database. But we don't have an electronic system. There's no need for an electronic system. The database is in the NRA. From this database you enter one criterion of income a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a. In this lucrative group, there will be a million and a half people with their U.N.N., or a million, or 500 thousand, as many as they are. And then you give an opportunity with a simple platform on the Internet, a simple web page of each gas station to check the NGN and turn green or red. Elementary, if it's green, you give one lev, if it's red, you don't give. There's nothing more simple than that. And then the money would go where it should go. Now out of your 150 million dollars at least, the 100 million will take it from the people who don't need that support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u87	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. The first line asked Alexander Ivanov, the second one Mr. Ganev, and the third one Mr. Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u88	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Dobrev, honourable Members! Yes, Mr. Dobrev, this was one of the reasons why the government is opening the Bulgarian citizens in quotes to open with this incredible measure. I'm saying ironic again. Unfortunately, as you have listed why it will not work, why it is not fair, I will also highlight another widely advertised impact that will be in six months. The colleagues from the Budget Committee and the government won't be surprised, I said that there, the 150 million. lv. It's supposed to last six months. The reality, however, shows another.. they will reach no more than a month and a half and create more questions and problems for both beneficiaries of the measure and those they have to carry out. I am speaking from two countries, the Ministry of Finance, which must restore the funds of the gas stations chains, which will provide this measure to the Bulgarian citizens and to the gas stations themselves. If it is a small gas station, they have to subsidise the country for a month with a price of 25 cents per litre that they will provide and will not be able to charge fuel wholesale until the State recovers these funds. The first problem. The second problem is that there is no answer at what point exactly will the measure stop and create this prerequisite for a huge budget gap? I think so, and I'll tell you why, colleagues. At what point the state will be able to exercise effective control when this 150 million is exhausted. BGN, which the government provides for in the budget to be spent under this measure? Who's the gas man gonna go to and say, "Stop." You can no longer take advantage of the compensation because the 150 million is exhausted. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] As you have pointed out, the measure is neither anti-crisis nor anti-inflation. On the contrary, it will cause trouble. They will not be able to benefit the most deprived of it, and I am very disappointed that it provides an opportunity to create a huge budget deficit that the next government will be wondering how to fill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Ganev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two questions for Mr. Dobrev. The criticism that this is a tack, and it should in any way be a return policy, is a resonant criticism, but it can also be addressed to other measures, such as a type of add-on of a katak for all pensioners, regardless of whether they receive 300 levs. per month or 3000 leva. What would you say in this kind of policy? [[Noise and lines.]] And there are pensioners who get 3,000 BGN because as income they don't just get pension. My second question. You said that if a person gets to a certain amount of income, they'll use the discount, and over a lot of income they won't use it. Eddie, how many are you? But an exact amount, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. The third line "Nastimir Ananiev." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dobrev, you said that you would not talk about one lev difference, but I want to hear your opinion about the two levs difference for Sofia Municipality - three levs for private, five levs for commercials. Two leva difference! Where are these two levs going? Speaking of differences, talk about all the differences, not just the ones you make up. You're saying let's access the NRA's data to the gas stations. I know that in GERB you have given access to 5 million users of the NRA, but I think it is wrong to give access to the data, which is sensitive information to any person. The other one, which is a problem. In the NRA are people who pay their taxes, and the problem of the state is other people who keep them in drawers and don't pay their taxes. [[speaking indistinctly]] These people are more problematic in general, not those who are in the IRA and who pay their taxes all year. The data there are sensitive and can't be distributed to anyone about it or anything. In principle, I agree that if there is a mechanism, it needs to be figured out, but there is a crisis at the moment and it needs to be acted quickly so that a maximum number of people can be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't answer to Mr. Ananiev. I have a right not to answer him because I think he thought the election campaign started. [[Heckling]] You need to lay low a little bit. The election campaign will begin on everything, only in a few weeks. Maybe Mr. Ananiev is practicing from this tribune to get into the campaign faster.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u95	Get to the point, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u96	After all, it was a direct line to Mr. Ananiev. It worked somehow. I agree with Mr. Ganev because we really don't have to give them away for any kind of additives or for any other supplements or social payments. That is, there are pensioners who really have the maximum pension, there are others who are renters and take 3,000 thousand. lv. Hire. What do they want 50 leva for? the cavity allowance or any other social payments, whatever they are? That is why it is important to say once and for all: the state does not have that much money to waste on a muck. When it's worth 150 million, it's worth 150 million, and every penny of that 150 million has to go exactly where it needs it, or to the lowest income. About how much. I gave a few examples for the management to decide how many will be 1000 BGN. income, whether it will be 1500 leva. You don't even have to give them up right away. It can be given with the tax return at the end of the year, if it is not possible to make a system that will monitor this in real time. Regarding colleague Alexander Ivanov. You're right in two parts of your line. And I can't figure out at what point the money will run out and how they'll understand the gas stations that they've run out of money because imagine the mechanism on which this program is working for a whole month the gas station owners advance that 25 cents. Their mark-up may be 10 cents per liter, but the state doesn't ask them how much your mark-up is, but it says: you will return those 10 cents that are your mark-up, and you will give another 15 cents out of your own pocket, because you have to pay back 25 cents, and in the end of the month you will make a summary check, you will ask for money from the state and it will refund it to you. So at what point does the state understand how much money has been spent during the month? He understands around the VAT around the 14th when he gets all his applications from the gas stations. Okay, what if by then the 150 million in question were gone? Turns out they were out last month, and at the same time, 14 - 15 - day gas stations continue to sell more 25 - penny discount. I mean, you're right. That's right. The application of this program, if there are no electronic systems to monitor these sales in real time, will lead to the fact that it will not be able to monitor when to stop this assistance. And the extent to which this aid is going to reach is a completely different issue, because at 3 billion and a half liters of consumption, about 60% for business users and 40% of the fuel, that is, about a billion litres, are for domestic consumers. That'll be enough for 500 million liters. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So that's a real question, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u97	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Now the word is Iskra Mihaylova. Here you go, Mrs. Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! We have appealed to the Council of Ministers to take anti-crisis and anti-inflation measures another half a year back in time. At the beginning of May we began reading the crisis PR of the Council of Ministers with headlines on how the cabinet responds to the skeptics. Through this § 14, which also colleagues discussed earlier and on which I take the floor, in art. 112 is responding to the skeptics so with this inflationary quotes, unfortunately, a measure that, as soon as we conclude the vote on this budget, there must be an immediate consideration of what new measure should be taken. As has been said, the way this measure is resolved with this 150 million, it is not clear when it will end. It is clear that this measure benefits people with higher incomes, which, by the way, the Minister of Finance acknowledged at the meeting of the Financial Commission, and admitted that, yes, the measure was not targeted at all. No way. However, the question remains: what was done during these two months from the beginning, when the headlines began to come out that the measures were decided, taken, they are clear by 1 July when it will enter, and until today when we comment on this measure? What was done during these two months to target the measure? How many times a month does someone charge their car and actually have to invest in order to take those 12,50, which we commented earlier as a measure for the 50 liters? So someone has to be able to afford to take out 180 levs to take back 12 levs. How many people in this crisis we are in, how many times a month can they afford to take out 180 levs to take back 12 levs.? The discount of 25 cents per liter is extremely insufficient. That's not enough! However, another hypothesis opens up the claim to grant this compensation. It is not the state, but the final distributors of fuel that will pay this money, but then what time and how they will receive it, and how they themselves are not yet aware, because all of you have received the letters that have written to us until the last time before the vote on this budget comes. After all, fuel prices as they are affect the purchasing power of citizens, and with these 25 cents, we will not solve the increase in prices that come from increased fuels. The only thing that is currently known is that by voting now, the next day the Council of Ministers in resignation must begin to meet how and in what way to compensate Bulgarian citizens for the absolutely inadequate solutions, for the absolutely inadequate management that they have implemented during these 7 months, in which there have been endless opportunities with all the resources of the administration to help the Bulgarian citizen with so fast growing prices of both electricity, which we will look at in the next paragraphs and the fuels, which, unfortunately, have not only reached some peak, but will surpass it every day, because with each exit and reaching the gas station, we see that this trend continues. This measure of 25 pennies may benefit some MP who travels around the area and loads his car several times a month, at the expense of people who can't take out 180 levs to be returned to them 12 levs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Are there any lines? Here's a line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Mihailova, it is very easy to go out on the stand and tell which measures are good and which are not good. I respect your opinion, but I have this hypothesis: you have absolutely no idea and you do not understand the economy or the financial measures that you supported, Mrs. Mihaylova. The claim that the measures we propose are pro-inflation is a matter of debate. My question to you is: can you come out you, who supported 20 GERB proposals, 20 GERB proposals, supported you, Mrs. Mihailova, and explain one of these proposals at least, which is not pro-inflationary. Please prove to the audience that you have an idea of what you're talking about from this tribune when you're going out. Take out one of the measures you have supported and explain with very simple words to people why this measure is not pro-inflation and how it will affect prices in Bulgaria. If you don't, you prove that your populist statements here are absolutely empty, and you have no idea what you're doing, and so you will support my hypothesis. With all due respect, Mrs. Mihailova, you don't understand what you're saying here and you're pushing the country towards even greater inflation with your... One billion you've supported. One billion!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u101	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mrs. Korcheva, second line. Is there a third line? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Get to the point. Actually, I'm gonna ask you something and I'm gonna clear something up. Targeting, which is envisaged in the state budget for this measure from 25 pennies per litre, is foreseen only for cheaper fuels and this is the way to segment. So I really think that this speculation should be stopped. Also something that I really think is speculation, which Mr. Dobrev in his previous speech, and Mrs. Mihailova now said that they will only charge the rich people, and the poor will not take advantage of this measure and they will be really harmed. Mr. Dobrev, Mrs. Mihaylova, where did you get this statistic from? I'd be very grateful if you'd answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Korcheva. Here you go, Mrs. Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If for the MPs of "We continue the Change" 3.50 per litre is cheap fuel, then for the rest of us "normal," regular Bulgarians, it is expensive fuel, Mrs. Korcheva. [[Noise and lines.]] Cheaper fuels than 3.50 we don't understand it that way. Regarding what we are commenting on. We are commenting on a proposal of the government of the Council of Ministers, of the Minister of Finance, who said himself that nothing has been targeted and that yes, it is not a very good measure, but that they were able to put together at the last moment, because it is not very clear what else the government has been doing during these seven months. We can see. And by the way, Mr. Mitev, I wasn't going to answer because...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u105	Because you can't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u106	...with you the dialogue is extremely difficult, but I'll tell you who voted with whom. You voted the national betrayal of Macedonia with GERB and DPS. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Jeco Stankov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is related to § 4, the creation of art. 70a, in which we bet 150 million. EUR for loan agreements for Bulgargaz and 382 million EUR for new loan agreements for Bulgartransgaz. Dear colleagues, we started a dialogue yesterday on this topic, which we have not been able to complete, namely, that Bulgargaz and a firm company with a profit of more than 90 million in the past year, in the middle of the year, is at a loss, notice that its activities are regulated to a large extent, and I started asking myself why we are both placed under the same conditions and at a loss, and we will give him an additional 150 million. Euros. But they started flashing red lights on me right away. We're releasing the 150 million. Euros to go on some mysterious roads, and I'll tell you what these mysterious roads are. First, imagine that you drive a car and every day you buy a wine in order to move on the roads, however, in the case of... Bulgargaz........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, if you think this is scandalous, I'll move on a little further. Therefore, it is not even the subject of a discussion at the moment whether the Russians have stopped our gas or the government has only stopped it, but in our contractual relationship with the Russians, there is one specificity that is directed in the following direction. Since we are currently in the last year of the contractual relationship, we have a take or pay clause, which means: whether we are taking our quantities in the current year, we are obliged to pay them so that we can take them in the coming years, however, this does not apply for the last year of the contract. The last year of the contract we have to pay all the quantities we haven't taken, which will be 1.5 billion. Cubic meters of gas, or at a current price of 2 billion. 250 million. lv. Once again, the state will have to pay on 1 January 2023 at least 2 billion. 250 million. lv. for the unpossible amount of gas, but you'll be entitled, notice, to receive no more than 15%, or the damage to the state will be within about 1 billion. And 900 million. Every Bulgarian citizen should know that on January 1st he will wake up with 382 BGN. less in the pocket, because he will have given them for quantities of gas that will not pay the state, but through his taxes, through VAT and everything else he pays, he will pay 382 BGN. He won't get anything out of his pocket, and the damage to the state will be 1 billion. 910 million. In this regard, in order to start covering these holes, which are evident from today that they will be formed in the Bulgargas, we start with some state guarantees within 150 million. Euros. So far, the company, which owns several computers, has already withdrawn 300 million. BGN, now we will give him a state guarantee for another 300 million. lv. And I bet in the budget update, God forbid, the same government has to do it in a few months, they're gonna be betting a few more hundred million to cover that 1 billion. and 900 million, which at the end of the year, Gazpromexport will ask for, we will be obliged to pay them, but we will not get them. So to know from now on, the deal continues after the removal of Nikolai Pavlov from the "Bulgargaz" after the removal of all, after the non-reservation of capacity, after placing the border of intermediaries, which we personally cleaned for tens of years back, and continue to pour into the bottomless pit or in the jug, which rather has so many holes that it does not have a pitcher, but there is only a handle, continue to pour millions. Moreover, I was unable to get to the issue with Bulgartransgaz, a profitable enterprise, to which we withdrew the capital that did not reach the business because of 4 billion, which withdrew from the energy companies, only 1.5 billion came to the business, but at the moment instead of the Recovery Plan, to which we had placed two huge gas pipelines on which hydrogen can be transported, not only are we not going to give them the money for these gas pipelines, we have withdrawn the funds from Bulgartransgaz and now we will have to give him a state guarantee in order to draw a credit. So we've put energy on our knees in the last few months at all, and if it goes the same way, I just don't know if there's going to be any state energy left, provided that what we've left you was energy with full bank accounts and a colorful state. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u109	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov, for a line. So you can give Mr. Stankov the opportunity to continue for Bulgartransgaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Now, Mr. Stankov, you said a few things that aren't true, we start checking them out one by one. The first fact, Moscow stopped the gas for Bulgaria. In this situation, there can be no claim for payments.. that is absurd, which you claim. [[Noise and lines.]] That's absurd. The second thing you said that wasn't true. Bulgaria paid under this contract, paid the corresponding contribution for April month and it was returned by the Russian side. Well, how in the world are you gonna claim extra payments, people?! That's more childishly naive, what you're talking about here. You paid, they paid you back, but they'd ask you for other money after that?! That's ridiculous. Moscow then asked for a unilateral change of contract and payments to be made in rubles, which, of course, we did not agree to - Bulgaria disagreed, that is what this is about. But I, Mr. Stankov, because you used many words, said what was not true in your speech, have a very simple question. You are not more simple answers and I fear that you will not answer me, but I will ask you many times and you and whoever from GERB takes the floor. Tell me now simply, in simple words: You, if it were up to you, would buy gas in rubles from the Gazprom immediately, is that not what this is about? That's your problem. I mean, if you were to make that decision right now, you would immediately be buying gas from the Rubles, wouldn't you? It's your problem that this isn't happening now. That's what this is about, isn't it? That's your problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u111	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Second line, wait, Mrs. Petkova, second line Mr. Tabutov, then third line Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Stankov, just one update, you're talking about what should be paid under the contract with Gszprom about the take or pay clause. Given that the contract has been unilaterally violated by the GSzproms, are you sure that we must fulfil this clause? You speculate that we have to pay $2 billion. 250 million for the gas that's supposed to be delivered, we made a payment that was denied, and right now you're speculating, again, with the situation that we owe that money. My opinion is that this is a legal matter that needs to be resolved. How can you be so sure this money has to be spent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u113	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Third line, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Stankov! I fully agree with everything you have said here and what you have put forward as arguments. Of course, what you said is true, but this truth does not always appeal to colleagues who, firstly, do not know the contract, secondly, have never been involved in the management of these types of companies. The risks are indeed very great, we should not talk and cause any panic, but the facts are what you have put them up to, unfortunately, very soon we will likely be faced with precisely the solution of this extremely important problem for Bulgarian energy and Bulgaria, which will arise as a result of these actions which have been taken. But my reply to you is related to this, would you remind the MPs when Bulgaria first made imports of liquefied natural gas, including from the United States of America, because this topic is being abused here Please remind your colleagues when we first delivered liquefied natural gas, including from the United States of America, which company made the procedure public, transparent, to which they had the opportunity to show all possible natural gas suppliers and as a result we achieved some really very good prices lower than those which the KEWRC had determined, because this was our condition, not like those managers today, former directors of private natural gas traders who called several companies, those who gave them the largest commission in all likelihood, chose them. So I ask you to remind the Members of the National Assembly when and what the effect was and to stop once and for all the abuse of these claims by colleagues about addictions. We have long been working on diversification and let us just remember that if it had not been for the governments of Prime Minister Borisov, today neither from Azerbaijan would we have supplied natural gas or liquefied natural gas if we had not made the necessary modernisation of the gas infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. You have the floor for the dot, Mr. Stankov. Let me just say that Minister Karadjov asked for the floor too. I'll give the rest after his statement. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with my colleague Martin Dimitrov. Mr. Dimitrov, I said at the very beginning of the speech that it was not the subject of the budget to say who stopped the gas, whether the Russian side or the government itself, but I will tell you something else, because here you have offended me personally that I have come out to make these speeches because, you see, we are not currently taking Russian gas and we are not paying in rubles. I'll just tell you that Deputy Minister Plamen Danailov, while I was on a business trip to the United States, went out on national television and said there was a delegation in the United States currently negotiating liquefied gas. Do you know how many political people were in the delegation? Just me. So the government has sent me to negotiate the LPG from the States, and you're telling me that I'm against diversifying, right? We're just talking about things here that have nothing to do with the truth. Moreover, what would you say at a time when gas does not flow from Russia, but we continue to pay 2 million each. EUR per month for capacity. And here my question is: with these 2 million, which gives Bulgargaz....to Gazpromexport..is it funded or not funded the war? You will tell me because DB here has a clear position that coincides with that of GERB-SDS. We're against paying $2 million, even though we don't use the freeway and we don't have a car to pay them every day for a tart. I suppose you're against it, too. Dear Mr. Tabutov, when you have a clause for take or pay and you say: the money was returned, not paid at the expense of why the capacity is paid and when you go to an arbitration, what will be explained? We pay for our capacity, we don't get our gas, we can pay for it, we can't pay for it, we can't pay for it. And read carefully to White and Keys the opinion that was given by colleagues from the Ministry of Energy, where in detail are also described all the shenanigans that have been poisoned by both the Ministry of Energy and by Bulgargaz. So whether or not we will have to pay 1 billion 910 million will certainly have to declare the arbitration. The point is, when arbitration comes out in a few years, it won't be 1 billion 910 million, it'll be 2 1/2 billion. And then out of the pocket of every Bulgarian taxpayer will not come 382 BGN, because I divide it into 5 million working citizens over 18 years old, and will be at least 500 BGN. In other words, out of every Bulgarian pocket will come 500 leva. On average, a household by statistic is 2.2 people, or they will come out about £1,200. the first number of the year in each household's pocket. Mrs. Petkova's last line. Dear Mrs. Petkova, precisely during the second government of Borisov, when you were a minister and I was a deputy minister, was held the most transparent procedure for the supply and diversification of other gas, other than Russian, on the territory of the country through a public tender, held by The clear condition was the price of KEWRC minus discount and which gave the biggest discount, it will deliver gas to Bulgaria. Not only was this procedure carried out, but also the results of it were announced, because the discounts were at tens of percent. And these two tenders, which were made, I am finished, Mr. President, brought Bulgaria diversification within 25% of the quantities only through the NG terminal, with dozens of discounts and a reduction in the price of domestic consumers afterwards, which saved hundreds of millions of levs to taxpayers and businesses. [[the President signals that time has run out]] And if we were in power now, we would have done the same thing because an American company such as Shjejje, which, if you remember, invited us to the opening of its largest liquefied gas terminal in the United States, which is against the US, would give us optimal conditions with which at the moment the price of gas in Bulgaria will not be BGN 141. at a megawatt hour, and no more than 115 leva. at a megawatt hour. And right now, the only thing that can be done because the price...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u117	Thank you, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u118	...is lost, is to have compensations that are for the gas business, which, however, do not see them in the budget. Moreover, when looking at the European Commission report...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u119	Mr. Stankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u120	...sees that Bulgaria currently has one of the most expensive cubic meter gas in Europe. Which is reflected in extreme prices...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u121	We get it, get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u122	...the bread, the electricity, the heat and everything. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the extra time. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u123	Thank you. Yeah, you're on fire, but at least let's keep the weather in our backs. Now I give the floor to Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As far as I understand, at the request of the Members of the National Assembly and at your decision, Mr. President, I am here to give information regarding the so-called municipal projects for which talks were held with the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria, which have really collected numerous projects, and in the area of water and in the field of municipal roads they have exceeded the amount of 1 billion. I can confirm that the answer to this question is very easy. Real money, original money for such projects in the budget of the MRDP has not been put into place. In May, however, in an already advanced phase of preparation for such projects, we had a clear agreement with the Minister of Finance that such money would be provided for in the update, as this is also recorded in our coalition agreement and has been repeatedly highlighted. Since such an update will not be available, it is normal that this money, which we have prepared in advance inside the budget of MRRB, to return to the feathers in which they were. Why? Regardless of the savings and buffers that can be found in the MRB budget for financing such projects, you remember that by a decision of the National Assembly of 20 April this year, in which the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works was further entrusted with old obligations. That is why, at the first point of this decision of the National Assembly, 656 million were already paid out, which were taken from the pen in the budget for ongoing repairs and maintenance. This largely mutilates the program for ongoing repair and maintenance and threatens to implement much less complete repairs for re-asphalting, which are possible in current repair and maintenance. If we additionally take the existing reserves and provide them for municipal projects, there will be no funds left for the three main activities. Indeed, the travel agency's budget is very easy.. 1 billion and 200 million are planned in the budget for ongoing repair and maintenance; for major repairs and new construction were planned 733 million; for new highways under the Public Procurement Act.. 212 million; 102 million payments under previous activities which were carried out on the rest of the highways, and 12 million for such capital of the DNC. That makes a total of 2 billion 259 million. It is very easy to understand this budget. In fact, this is already a deficit of 100 million, as already 656 million have been spent on something that is ongoing repair and maintenance, but has been in many previous years, I am talking about 2020 and 2021. In fact, the conversation we are having with you at the moment is on the overall budget of the MRB, how to comply with the decision of the National Assembly of 20 April and not to come up with this otherwise huge deficit, which has already been mentioned several times. Here, allow me, before you, as MPs who have chosen me, to make clear the following arrangement. I would like to extend the issue of municipal projects a little bit and explain to the people who are familiar and are particularly familiar at the moment, to the subject of a budget, to this deficit with the preliminary agreement that I do not do so in order to ask for new funds, as you can see, there is no such request on my part, but because many lies have been heard in this direction. I think it has also become clear to the children that this is a lie that does not rest on the real facts. I will draw your attention to you only a few minutes if the President is benevolent, I assume that you have received them in your e-mails, but through the President of the National Assembly Mr. Nikola Minchev on 14 April, one week before the decision on the old duties is taken here, I have submitted to the National Assembly a letter, which will make it clear that for old commitments in the budget of the MRB are replaced 2 billion. The Commission 61,000. £800. So that's long before we talked about budget, long before we talked about like or didn't want to. This letter was sent to the Minister of Finance. It was also sent to the Prime Minister. So this is not some news, it is not a question of asking and not asking, but of opening a large deficit. I guess whoever has an interest in this subject will open their mail and read it one more time. Again, from April 14, No. 03-01-90. Once opened this first deficit of 2 billion and 400 million, calculating that all in house procedures for highways were not set in place, as they were waiting for their decision and, as you understand, found some solution at a joint meeting that took place with the Prime Minister, so we had to dose them as well. And by adding that 500 million, announced to the municipalities and promised on a coalition promise, where, by the way, we have recorded 1 billion, but I will not open this subject, we are going to this deficit of 3.9 billion. This is how simple it is with the funds from the budget of the MRDP. I am telling you this in order to tell you what problem I am facing and you are also facing, as many of the MPs have also participated in the talks with the mayors of the municipalities, about deciding whether to decompose the programme for major renovation and new construction, whether to deactivate the highway programme that is being built under the Public Procurement Act or to give the municipalities. Naturally, as a minister who keeps his budget, in my original budget, I have bet. It's really quite simple to understand...................................................................................................... It may be frightening billions, but it is the price for Bulgarians to drive on good roads. And I think they have the right to drive on good roads, and they have the right to be safe, marked with signs that are reflective, with good markings. So my point is that my primary task is to keep this budget, which we have started, which is not to decompose major repairs, not to decompose, not to cut the volume of current repairs, which has already been reduced once by 656 million paid in past years. So I have no choice but to say very clearly that the lack of update.. especially for these municipal projects will make it absolutely impossible for the classification and definition of projects to be financed. Here are the criteria. [[shows]] : The project selection methodology, which has existed in the Ministry for a long time and I would have confirmed it with a new introduction, where there are all the criteria, there are the percentages and the points by which they are valued. In this situation, there is no de facto point, especially this thing, to realize for the simple reason that there is no funding. That's the information from me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u125	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. Since I can't replicate the Minister, please tell him... In fact, the idea of him being called here was of Mr. Yordanov, who accused me of lying. But what I heard from the minister actually confirmed my words that at the moment 418 million are at MRRB and will be transferred back to API so that they can't influence the current repair and maintenance. Not just that. I have consulted the representatives of the Ministry of Finance who have confirmed that 209 million are earmarked for water projects and 209 are earmarked for road projects that are precisely for this money, which I am talking about - 209 plus 209 - is 418 million. Yes, the minister can bring them back to the TRS, he has this opportunity and he is right that if he is short of money, the roads must be maintained. But that doesn't make a lie what I answered to Mrs. Dimova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u127	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. First Mr. Chobanov asked. Procedures are procedures. What's your procedure? In a way of leading? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Procedure in the manner of conduct. Please address Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, who correctly states the facts. However, we should not miss, that is to say, he could make a more direct summary that here in this Chamber and in the discussions what is happening with the roads, and in the discussions what should be expected the Bulgarian municipalities were made specific commitments not by him, but by the one who should provide the funds that will additionally be given 1 billion and 200 million in terms of the roads, if I am not mistaken, because of the old... [[Reply.]] How is that not true? It's true. ...road costs we then discussed at all whether the current budget could be used. But then I had also made an editorial proposal to provide these funds immediately from the central budget and not to use the current budget of the Ministry for this year. To them we must add at least 500 million to the municipalities. Not to mention that at some point in the discussions with the municipalities, the National Association of Municipalities may also confirm it to them that the amount, if possible, could reach up to a billion and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. And Mr. Yordanov's personal explanation is this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ananiev, you are obviously not listening to what the Minister is saying or you cannot think. He made it very clear that it was money that was not provided for the municipalities, that they were promised to be given to him, that he had withdrawn them in advance, even before we reached today, and since he is not receiving them now, he is forced to withdraw them back, so there is no money for the municipalities. [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] I'll make it simple for you. If I'm your employer and I give you 1,000 leva. And I promised you to buy another 500 leva. TV for your mother and you from your money You put 500 away to buy a TV, and then I tell you I won't give it to you, you take it back because you can't pay for the heat. Do you have 500 leva? For a TV, Mr. Ananiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u131	The money's not in API!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u132	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Colleagues, we're about to have a discussion here, we're a little on edge. Maybe we should have assumed that what Mr. Karadjov said wasn't budget-related and given two minutes to a group, but something like this happens anyway. I'm really asking Mr. Ganev, then Mrs. Dimova, and let's stop the procedures. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u133	Mr. Chairman, thank you. In fact, mine is related to the budget, but to the way of budgeting in Bulgaria. Namely: listening to the correct statement of the facts by Mr. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, I felt great concern as a person who is in the Budget Committee. For me, the phrase suddenly turned out to be a deficit. It was either in API, whether in Automobiles. It shouldn't be possible because API can't make orders for either TRP or for construction of new roads before the money is provided in the budget! That's forbidden.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u134	Wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u135	And accordingly, there must be money first, then orders are placed, and that's quite... If this is the situation in Bulgaria, this should change immediately, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u136	Let's hear from Mrs. Dimova. Would you like, Mrs. Dimova, still in the manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u137	Yeah, the way you run it. Mr. Chairman, the only thing I am calling for and I would like to remind you in my speech I specifically addressed Mr. Ananiev and told him that it was human and male when a person was wrong, with dignity from this tribune to say: I was wrong. Mr. Ananiev, you are the President of the Regional Commission, I have claims that I am a financier. I heard from Minister Karajov in resignation, at least that's how I understood him as a financier: yes, they have been promised, but there is no money involved. He has to choose between roads and municipalities. The fact is, roads are more important. So, Mr. Chairman, my only request is that when the President of the Regional Commission gets up and from this tribune accuses me and my colleagues of lying, you make the necessary remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u138	I'll keep that in mind, Mrs. Dimova. Last, really two sentences from the minister for one clarification and I'm taking a break.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Especially to my colleague Mr. Ganev, he is absolutely right that not a single penny has been taken over by the API outside of the commitments made on the budget. But I will quote again this letter, which I submitted on 14 April 2022. 4 of this letter I have written the following, if you can hear it: the MRB is in the process of talks with the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria to provide a financial resource of 500 million. lv. for municipal roads and municipal water projects. For the purposes of the implementation of these projects, we have had talks with the Minister of Finance to predict this amount in the update of budget 2022 as an increase in the costs of MRRB. This was sent to both the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister. This is also sent to you because its purpose was to inform you about all the deficits that are forming. Regarding Mr. Ganev's line, whom I respect very much as economist and financier. The accumulated deficits did not happen suddenly, Mr. Ganev. They happened in the past and in fact became such deficits for this year with the National Assembly decision. In the four points there are specific figures written, which are included in the budget of the MRRB and there is explicitly written: the budget for 2022. "But when this budget was legal, there was not the slightest idea to take on this huge hole of 2.4 billion, which comes from 2020 and 2021. This is how it came about. It appears on 20 April with the decision of the National Assembly. I've warned a week before about her plus the 500 million. I did the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u140	Thank you for your clarification, Mr. Karadjov. I'm giving it till 12:00. At exactly 12:00 p.m., we proceed. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u141	Looking at the list... Mr. Shishkov, are you ready to speak? Here you go. That's how the last ones go first. Mr. Shishkov, and then we'll take the preliminary course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to motivate our proposal to increase the costs of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology by 3.5 million. BGN, including 1.9 million lv. to increase the remuneration of those employed at the Institute, 1.6 million lv. for capital expenditure, for the modernisation of hydrometeorological surveillance equipment and urgent repairs in the Institute's buildings. The increase will allow for motivation and detention of specialists and workers at the Institute and attracting young people to participate in scientific and hydrometeorological work. The increase in staff costs will allow minimum salaries for academic positions in state higher education schools to be achieved. I would like to remind you that the main activity of the Institute is related to the development of science in the field of meteorology, hydrology and agrometeorology, as well as to the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Global Integrated Monitoring System of the World Meteorological Organisation of the United Nations. Part of the research carried out by the Institute is the following: monitoring, analysis and forecasting of the processes in the atmosphere and hydrosphere; research on climate and water resources; study and forecasting the composition of the atmosphere and hydrosphere and its change of natural and anthropogenic nature; hydrometeorological services for the territory of the country and the Black Sea of the state authorities, population and wide range of users; protection of lives and property through timely forecasting of dangerous and particularly dangerous weather phenomena and floods; provision of national and international data exchange in Southeast Europe and the Middle East for the World Service of Time. Among the priority researches are: optimization of the network of measuring stations, improvement of methods of monitoring, transmission, processing and interpretation of information; assessment of hydrometeorological resources; assessment of climate, agroclimatic and water, their fluctuations in the territory of the country and their use in the economy; short-term and medium-term forecasting of hydrometeorological processes with development, deployment and development of modern funds; numerical models, satellite and radar observations; development of methods for long-term forecasting of time; study of cloud physics and carrying out aerological measurements; study of composition and changes from natural and anthropogenic nature in the atmosphere and hydrosphery; modeling processes of pollutants, as well as the transfer of rivers; provision of state bodies with data, analysis, expertise and forecasts for hydrometeorological processes of the country's territory and the Western Sea. The experts carried out by the Institute for 2020, colleagues, are more than 11 thousand: preparation of short-term and specialised forecasts and expert assessments for the needs of the Permanent Government Commission for the Protection of the Population against Disasters and Accidents, Defense of the country and others; maintenance of the national hydrometeorological archive, establishment of a database for service to a large number of users; preparation of analyses, expertise, consultations and forecasts for the dynamics of air and water pollution. The Institute's employees serve eight ministries in operational mode, namely: Ministry of Environment and Water, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Energy. The Institute also submitted data to Sofia Municipality, district and municipal administrations. Colleagues, the weather forecast is not just an app in the phone, the weather forecast is a result of a lot of effort, tireless work and a huge expertise on the expertise of the people for whom we offer a fair reward, which I hope you will support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u143	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. How exactly did you calculate the time! Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Christov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! GERB-SDS parliamentary group will strongly support the proposal to increase the budget of this institute. The truth is, he's the most applied. Without trying to minimize the role of other research institutes, he daily submits the necessary information about many, as Mr. Shishkov explained, institutions from which important decisions are made on the health and life of people to reduce the damage that nature causes. We know that with global warming this will deepen more and more. My reply and my question to you, Mr. Shishkov, because you know the matter very well, with these changes that happened there.. the removal from BAS and the relocation to other places, did it affect the Institute and do you think it continues to have this important role, did it manage to preserve this important role that it had? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u145	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Second line, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u146	Dear Mr. Shishkov, I would just like to point out that the initial proposal for an increase in funds for the Institute was 3.5 million, but in order to fit into a more reasonable estimate of increased revenue, it was reduced to 1.9 million, or as much as it is necessary to increase the remuneration to reach minimum salaries for academic positions, as you rightly said. However, this does not preclude the need to provide the rest of the funds. Perhaps it is important here to say that with the budget for 2023, because there are also colleagues from the Ministry of Finance here, I hope that they record, will have this responsibility to plan funds for modern modern hydrometeorological services, it must also have modern digital equipment, modern stations. You can't replace the stations at once, but you can take steps in this direction every year. So this does not, in any case, cancel the necessity that we have reduced the proposal, that is what I wanted to point out. And in relation to what Mr. Hristov also said, it is important that these remunerations do not fall behind the remuneration at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, as otherwise it will turn out that there is hardly a penal action against the Institute because it is not within the structure of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u147	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Are there any other lines? Mr. Shishkov, would you like a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, despite the announcements from colleagues from the Change that they have managed to raise a lot of money in the budget, it has turned out that they are insufficient and we have taken a step back, and for this year we have withdrawn our idea of repair and reconstruction of the base, as well as modern equipment, but I hope indeed with the budget for 2023 this will happen because we know that science is extremely dynamic, it is rapidly evolving and we should not fall behind in other European countries as well as in the world. Otherwise, Mr. Hristov, I believe that in these six months thanks to the professionalism of the Institute and its leadership, and of the employees, we could not sense the turmoil in their work. On the contrary, I think they have managed to consolidate their activities and remain calm, to work at the same pace and rhythm as they have done so far. I hope they continue to be like this in the future. Perhaps what I have neglected to say in my speech, since I have not had the time, and mentioning several times the Ministry of Environment and Water, to say that I am personally extremely surprised that in the current budget update we have seen no additional funds for environmental protection activities, although for the last six months, unfortunately, the Change has done nothing in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u149	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. The next statement is Tsoncho Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Ganev. After him, Desislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u150	Mr. Chairman! We are undoubtedly discussing a series of points in this House right now, which are the most proposals for budget changes. I am pleased that at last in this budget the opposition has been adopted, at least in the Commission, we will still see what will happen in this House, but a series of decisions proposed by the opposition, some of which are ours, have been adopted in the Commission. I hope they will also receive support in this House, as all the proposals of AGE are entirely linked to the needs of whole sectors of our society. In this regard, one of the things that we proposed, voted on to the Budget and Finance Committee, was the proposal for an update of employees in the security sector and, more precisely, in the Ministry of Interior. This is the time to stress that the Ministry of Interior is not only involved in the staff of the police sector, as when you hear the Ministry of Interior, you think only of the police. In the Ministry of Interior is the Border Police, which are an extremely important sector in the period we live in and the protection of borders. There's the firemen, there's the administration. Therefore, you speculate how much and how big the Bulgarian police is is is not correct, it is not correct, because division by sector gives quite other parameters and figures. However, what is currently available as an update, proposed and adopted, at least in the Commission, for the payment, does not change the fact that the employees of the Ministry of Interior in all sectors work and use a technique that is in a staggering state. I'm just going to give you an example that the guns, the guns of most of the cops are from the '50s. Imagine what kind of weapon we're talking about. I'm just not gonna comment on the precincts themselves. The lack of copying and consumables is staggering. However, this is one of the things that I hope, besides the Commission, will also be supported in this House so that we can update the salaries of police officers, firefighters and border police. For something else that we have proposed and voted on and approved to the Finance and Budget Committee, and I hope it will be approved in this House, this is the salary of the staff at the NSO, because there, in the same way, these are people who provide security except for the highest management of the state, as well as sectors or buildings in which it is extremely important to ensure the security of the state. It is extremely important that the Finance and Budget Committee, however, did not vote on an increase in the salaries of people who provide security in prisons, which is an extremely important issue. Perhaps in this House there will be people who will be admitted to the prisons in question, there will have to be someone to protect them, but in the Budget and Finance Committee this has not been supported anyway. Once again, these people there are working in extremely difficult conditions and, in our opinion, from an age, it is very important, as we support the update of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, so to support the update and their payment. Now comes the moment when until a few hours ago there was no consensus and the Committee on Budget and Finance was not voted on and the update of the salaries of the people working and providing our work in the National Assembly was not approved. Here is the time to stress that their payment should have happened since the beginning of the year, but it has not been done because capital expenditure has been incurred. That is precisely why we from the age of old, which is why we have proposed an update of the budget with their payment. One million is the amount we propose by the end of the year to be spent on their payment. It has not been accepted in the Commission, but the last few hours have become clear that there may be a consensus on this and that there will be an opportunity for the employees of the National Assembly to update their payment. Something with which we are glad that it has been heard by other parliamentary parties is about the payment and the funds that have been allocated to the Agricultural Academy. These funds should be updated. The amount approved in the Committee on Budget and Finance will probably also be voted on in the Chamber is extremely important for Bulgaria and for our future, because there researchers provide the necessary products to have agriculture. Therefore, the topic that we are also raising at the beginning of the year, behind which we stand and which has finally received support from a large part of the parties in this Parliament, we are glad that it will be accepted and voted on. All these things are extremely important, and when we talk about them being pro-inflationary, let us think that people who are fighting for their physical survival is extremely important to be supported at the moment. It's one thing to have...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u151	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u152	One moment, you don't have to scream, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u153	I'll explain, Mr. Ganev. Go on a little longer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u154	When we talk about all these things, it is important to get an understanding that, yes, these are not anti-inflation measures, yes, but at the same time we will support people who are wondering how to make ends meet, because what we have at the moment is an extremely difficult moment in our economic existence and it is important that we take some opinion and some measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u155	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines? Here's a line for you, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ganev, as far as I understand from your speech, two of the proposals have not been supported by the Commission, namely 115,000. lv. 10 per cent increase in salaries, of the employees of the National Assembly. Would you explain in the backboard that actually this proposal is not the first thing we do at the aging age. On 21 April, we introduced amendments to the Law on the Fiscal Council, where we wanted money to be allocated and redirected to increase the salaries of the employees of the National Assembly, but because of the unwillingness of the ruling coalition to examine in parliament the laws of rebirth, as it blocks and stops our activity, this bill has not even passed the Commission yet. Although the two-month term under art. 72, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Would you explain that the people in the administration, unfortunately, do not take MP salaries. They're taking some lousy money. People with 15 years of driving experience take about £1,300. net salary and expected with this amount to support their families? Would you explain that the salary of the employees in the National Assembly has not been increased for at least two years at the expense of repairs in the Party House? Would you explain that if we do not raise and increase the salaries of the employees of the administration of the National Assembly, we are faced with a hypothesis in which some of these people can leave and seek another livelihood and make it difficult for parliament to work in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u157	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Second line, Mr. Mitev. Third line, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ganev, to be honest, I'm tired of listening to your lies from this tribune. All the good suggestions you've made, we've supported them. Now I'm going to prove another such example to you, Mr. Ganev. From the first day before I joined the National Assembly, I came to the administration and met all the people who work here. I believe that they are worthy people who do extremely good work. These are the people who no matter who rules, Mr. Ganev, are here looking after us every day. The people who drive you, the people who work in this building and make sure that she stays for the people after us and have taken care of the people before us. Therefore, Mr. Ganev, once again I say the good proposals that you make, we would support them, but this proposal is weak and I will tell you why it is weak. This proposal is weak, Mr. Ganev, because you're offering some money, and you're not saying where to get it. To have justice, Mr. Ganev, I will now make an adjustment to your proposal so that these people can receive their well-deserved money. Please, Mr. Chairman, let's make the following adjustment. To create art. 3, para. 6 sentence two: Before making a change in the budget of the National Assembly at the expense of.....that is very important, Mr. Ganev, where will the money come from? It will come from savings made in relation to the salaries of the Members of the National Assembly, so that the... at the expense of savings to increase the remuneration of the parliamentary staff of up to 1 million. 180,000. BGN., which is even more than your proposal. So, Mr. Ganev, once again you're lying from this tribune. Not only do we want to support and have justice, we are giving a mechanism to do so, and we are offering a greater amount. Thank you. [[(Private applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u159	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Please give it to me in writing after that, this proposal, so we can assess it. The third line Mr. Manev asked for.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Your speech, a colleague, in his part for the General Directorate of Security and the General Directorate of Punishment is very important. It is very important because, unlike police officers, these people........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This directorate, which has been created and for which many people have exercised in this Chamber some time ago, to exercise themselves to speak, and these boys and girls who work there, and each day they are responsible not only for the buildings, as you say, but they are responsible for the security of many people, for the security of judges, for the security of all who are in the judicial buildings, for the security of us, even when they lead, bring and take away those who must put up with their punishments, to appear before the court. When we created it years ago, this service was created by people professionals. There, indeed, besides experience, knowledge, and positions you occupy, you must also be able to feel certain things. Each step out of this service to someone brings terrible damage to their work. That is why we will support you in this part. We're gonna support you because these guys and girls really need to stay in the system, not go out on the street. The holes there are hard to fill. This experience there is not just done in two days. So we will support you in this position.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u161	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u162	Mitev's face doesn't make sense to comment on it. That's enough when you tell him his last name. Regarding what was raised by the other two who replicated me. Thanks for the lines. I'd like to remind you of a few facts. When we have offered expenditure, we have also offered the previous budget an opportunity for budget savings, with specific even separate legislative changes. At the beginning of the year, a bill was introduced in which it wanted to end the insanity of the Financial Supervision Commission to support itself from what they earn from fees, fines and penalties. Let me tell you what $20 million is. 20 million The Financial Supervision Commission is reassigning each year at least for the last one, now it may be more than fines and fees. It's just for payment. 20 million, I repeat, to hear what was adopted as legislation years ago, what it is now. We have proposed that these 20 million be removed and not on this principle of payment in the Financial Supervision Commission. This is where money can be taken for the directorate in question, one of the two directorates, which provides security to the prisons and guards to the judges, the judiciary and the system in general. When we have imported the same thing to reduce the huge payments of the Fiscal Council to Parliament, which receives salaries from Parliament's budget, I no longer know for more than half a year this thing is not being dealt with, it does not reach the House, it does not reach the Commission. When we talk about where savings can come from in this budget, which is not optimized in terms of what big money is being spent, but others are being wronged as employees in the National Assembly, we can also think about this option. Because there is a resonant in this whole thing that has been giving up the ruling majority for seven months to hear, at least to discuss it in the Chamber. Throw it away in the hall. You may have arguments to convince us that this is not enough. However, I cannot accept that it is normal to reject for months the views of such important bills, which will guarantee budget savings or allow them to be redirected to a completely different feather. It is not normal to make such statements as you have just heard from Mitev, and to explain how in 12 without five they have realized that they will be able to give money to the people to whom at the beginning of the year you will receive no wages so that we can do just what kind of repairs. It's not fair to these people. It's not fair. I doubt anyone will hear it. Apparently, they had to become press conferences, put public pressure on our part, so that there would be hearing, hearing. Why do we have to go there? Why didn't you have to hear the arguments in the room? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm just finishing up. One second. The same thing, perhaps in a few hours we will comment on the money that had decided to be taken away from the Fund for the Treatment of Children abroad.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u163	Let's do this in a few hours, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u164	Thank God this thing was heard and stopped this madness and got consensus after all from all parties in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u165	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Next speech "Ljubchen Dilov, as Mrs. Atanasova gave her order to Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am pleased that today the spirit is much more constructive and we are discussing really specific problems that this budget is trying to solve. I could also quote Cosma Prutkov, who says: "Pilute in the face of the one who tells you that it can cover the wrong. " - In general, we are also trying to do that in this budget. I would like to draw your attention to this. This is about financial support for regional libraries by increasing the value indicator of the standard for their funding, including the remuneration of staff. The libraries asked the Ministry of Culture to raise the money for them by at least 40%, including salaries, but mostly for the subject of their activity - library funds, maintenance. They, as you know, are on a common electricity regime, so they pay all this excess, and at the same time they don't generate revenue. The Ministry, of course, doesn't give them 40%. It offers 2 million. $580,000. lv. At the end of the day, the finance minister is paying 1 million in the budget. And 400,000. lv. This is extremely insulting, colleagues. I want to tell you from the librarians' point of view, say, they'll swallow it. This will not be the first government to neglect them, but I want to explain something important to you about the country. Nearly 60% of Bulgaria's territory, in fact, Bulgarians do not have access to books, they simply do not have any books. They can't even buy for one simple reason that the distribution system is such that it doesn't encourage and support the ultimate small seller, it can't just take because there's no consistency. It can't take a larger spectrum of titles that offer them to its readers. All we're talking about is trade. We'll get to the libraries. We come to this paradox that there are settlements in Bulgaria, where the only educational centers are gas stations at large gas stations, because there can be bought some books after all. Of course, these books are those that do not have high artistic value, because they rely usually on yellow titles, rely on high turnover, so that traders themselves, petrol stations, can sell such books. You've noticed what's in the stalls there. The only means by which the state can counteract this moving spiritlessness and especially among young Bulgarians is by encouraging regional Chitalishtes and regional libraries. A great example in this regard is the new regional library of Burgas, which, if you have not seen it, go and see it, is a facility with which we can be proud, and I think it is without an analogue in the Balkans for sure, and perhaps in Europe as a new facility. So this amount is extremely expensive. 1 million. And 400,000. lv. I don't know if she'll be felt at all. There's no way we can get her up here right now. My request is that we do everything we can to support her. The exact same situation was achieved with the financial support of the state cultural institutes. When requested 36 million with many disputes and pressure, the Ministry of Finance gives 12, that is, a third. I don't want to make joint vows about what we condemn ourselves to, but believe me, 30 years we've been trying with simple people to make our country, and it's not working out very well for us. So, if we're concerned about the next 30 years, at least in these two items of government spending, we could be a little bit more concerned. Especially for regional libraries, believe me, these are the only islands of culture for a very large part of the territory of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u167	Until you get here, to say that according to art. 53, para. 2 The reply is:.. Short objection to the substance of the final statement.................................................................................................... It's still an objection. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the important clarification. Dear colleague Dilov, as a reading and writing person, you are asking a very important question about the Bulgarian libraries and their condition. For the first time in many years, at the last parliamentary control, I asked the Minister of Culture: why has not until now started the programme of the Ministry of Culture to support the Bulgarian libraries, namely the renewal of library funds with up-to-date titles of different types and information sources, this is one period, we will welcome the summer holiday, or rather the reading community, will welcome it without the current titles in libraries. And I would like to ask you something else in particular: is there real danger that regional and municipal libraries will close at the beginning of the autumn season? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u169	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Nikolov, of course there is such a possibility and that we are extremely late in any action due to the lack of a program presented by the Ministry of Culture. But I would like to pay attention to you, and I apologize to Mrs. Tsoneva that I didn't think to say it..................the Ministry of Culture had not actually made any proposals, even those 1 million. And 400,000 for Mrs. Tsoneva's offer, even them. I know that in political trade in the formation of a coalition government the Ministry of Culture is not in line, but three meters behind the line is located. But believe me, such a lack of carelessness in Bulgarian history was not there. All kinds of misunderstandings have sat in this post, but you have indeed launched a shell of enthusiasm beyond the limits of reason with this minister indeed. And thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva, in my response, this is at least something about half of what people wanted, but something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u171	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Alexander Nenkov has the floor, after him Iskren Arabadzhiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u172	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address our proposal with colleague Alexander Ivanov, which we have done, namely to support Sofia Municipality as representatives of this city. However, I would like to point out that our proposal is not only aimed at Sofia Municipality and in support of its urban transport. The proposal concerns 20 million to go to the long-distance bus lines, as well as 16.5 million to go to support urban lines that are not profitable. I would like to say positively, and I am pleased that this proposal has received its support in the Commission. In the last more than a year, it turns out that especially the government or a large part of them place, for example, the city of Sofia as a hostage of some political intrigues and games. Of course, not only Sofia, but all the municipalities, but I specifically want to comment on the city of Sofia and I am glad that the Commission actually adopted our proposal. Sofia's demands are absolutely well-targeted, and if a person sees how and how urban transport is developing, its revenues, the costs that have repeatedly increased since before the horse pandemic, through the horse pandemic itself and the inability to restore to this day normal traffic, which, of course, generates revenues in urban transport, really justifies the demand of these 74 million. They are not enough, but it is still a serious breath of air for the city of Sofia, because we should not punish the Sofians. I am very opposed to this thing because somehow I got the impression in the last series of elections that this was used as some kind of gum, but in fact we are not punishing anyone else, we are punishing the city of Sofia. And instead of stimulating urban transport instead of trying to compensate it for the fact that during the quota crisis 70% of the airlines were reduced and at the same time the fuels were launched into orbit and that day the price of megawatts reached 700 BGN. There are no compensations and in fact we leave the city transport and Sofia Municipality in front of a serious problem and, in fact, in order for the urban transport activity to be completed so that the municipality can provide a good service, so that the municipality does not reduce the lines or schedule of bus and other vehicles, it is forced to set aside an increasing part of its budget in order to be able to finish the urban transport, which leads respectively to a reduction of other capital costs. We all want better infrastructure, more kindergartens, more landscaping, but this is all about the possibilities of this city. And here I don't want to oppose any city to the other cities, of course, but there are nearly 2 million people living here. Souls. People have come from all over Bulgaria to work, to seek their livelihood, lifestyle and we cannot deprive them of this service. And look at how ridiculous it is with these 25 pennies that we want to stimulate the use of more cars, but instead we don't dodge and we don't try to help the city transport, and the logic is the exact opposite, especially when we have 4 leva per litre, for example, let's say from the good diesel. And that is why I really hope and appeal to the plenary to take this step forward, and this is not just about Sofia Municipality. It's just that for me, municipalities have become like a doormat for looking for some kind of political dividend, but in fact, in these municipalities live people, living people, and there's no way we can just leave them at random. The city of Sofia has the largest system of transport, many investments have been made in recent years - billions of investments in recent years, this is obvious and there is no one to deny it. We are obliged as MPs, the state in particular, to support this mode of transport. In other cities, I set an example with England, they themselves in London report that in order to restore transport... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. ...at the levels of the horse pandemic, it will take at least two or three years and there is no city in Europe, especially such a large city that is not so seriously supported by the state. It's just that the public transport itself can't handle it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u173	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. First line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Nenkov! Yes, and I will express my gratitude to the colleagues who in the Budget Committee supported our proposal, because it does not concern only Sofia transport, it also concerns networks of public transport outside the capital. For them, our offer is over 36 million. And 500,000. lv. Because there were speeches in the Chamber and earlier on to colleagues from the ruling majority, who were apparently not familiar with the process in which Sofia Municipality had a joint working group with the Ministry of Transport, where a large part of the questions that colleagues from the ruling majority asked from this tribune to us, I sought information and received such that the working group at the Ministry of Transport and Sofia Municipality had been dealt with all fuel contracts, all the electricity contracts that Sofia Municipality and the three companies that secure the transport service were conducted, so the answer to honesty and transparency of the procedures was given and therefore I think that everything was done according to the rules. In this regard, you mentioned that two million Bulgarian citizens living in Sofia are using the transport service provided by Sofia Municipality. I dare say, living in the capital for over 35 years, that in recent years it has improved substantially. City transport has become more regular, cleaner, winter warmer, has already more coverage of Sofia Transport networks for all neighborhoods. I think that development as a green transport in Sofia also provides a very good alternative to the capital and guests of the capital. I think it is precisely in this regard that we should support this support, as you have mentioned, and it is because of many factors accumulated. One was a drop in the airport by up to 70% the previous two years, which inevitably lost for the companies. Of course, we should not underestimate the effect of rising fuel and electricity prices, for which it is we who appeal to subsidise to cover the great loss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u175	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Next line, Mr. Hristov. Third line, Mr. Arabadzhiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u176	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nenkov, yes, we will support the proposal to increase the funds for Sofia's large municipality because we believe that urban transport, on the one hand, is a means that provides social functions for those who cannot move otherwise, on the other hand, we decide in a sense to deprive Sofia of harmful gases and avoid congestion. This is the practice, as you said, in all major European capitals and this is the way to resolve these issues. When urban transport is accessible and comfortable, it is preferred than traffic with its own cars. As a MP from the 23rd Mir in Sofia, I would like to say that the so-called South Rainbow in Sofia has a transport that is really uninterested, but it is necessary because there live people, families with small children, they go to work, they go to school and if they do not receive additional support from the Sofia City Transport, the price of tickets will increase. My question to you is that if you don't get this support and go to higher ticket prices, do we pump inflation if I can use that term or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u177	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mr. Arabadzhiev, line three.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Nenkov, I cannot agree with you because look at the financial statements of the companies we have a company with more than 200 million each year and with about 50% revenue from ticket sales and cards and 50% documentation from the Municipality. There are serious indications of cost optimization options, and you say that urban transport is attractive, more people use it, but ask the transport experts, because the pearl of management of GERB and Sofia Municipality the subway, they will tell you that increased traffic from the subway or even from the city transport is at the expense of buses, because the lines were so done on the subway that they just moved the people from the buses to the subway, and people continue to drive cars. You didn't make it possible for working people, those who drive cars, to get out of cars and into public transport. Crazy places of construction of subway stations where it is most profitable for estranged procedures, get out of the metro station, go out into the field, then a year ago there was no road where people could enter the neighborhood. We see all the scandals over the years, public procurement, staged competitions for concessionation of the lines. We also see the order for the 100 million for modern integrated urban transport, which has been delayed for years. After all, she's not tied to the Metropolitan yet, she's not exchanging data, she can't work with them. And at the very least, they haven't introduced and integrated the system into Google Maps yet, so that people can see in real time the timetable, and that a private company from abroad has to find information on secret channels and offer it for public use.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u179	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. You have the floor for the dot, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Back and forth. Mr. Arabadzhiev, what do you suggest we go bankrupt in Sofia?! In the circle of the joke, I can answer you, which is why it seems your idea is actually to raise the price of fuel and electricity, so that there are no compensations, so that people can get them back on the subway and on the buses. That's pretty much your logic. That, of course, in the circle of the joke. I don't suppose that's what you mean. Look, there's not a single big city in Europe that doesn't come from the state. I'll give you an example of London just now. In the years it has always been, given that a very good service provides, it has always been in private hands, usually then private companies fail, then comes the state and this process over the years has been repeated repeatedly. In Sofia, the transport is municipal and you cannot now lightly say that the state for this year, I think it was with the cards that the state has, the general budget of aid from the state to Sofia Municipality is 21 million. Given that about 503 million are needed in the last memory of the entire transport task of Sofia. And I told you, of course, that Sofia Municipality would make sure that it didn't cut the timetable for example, or that it didn't shut down non-profit lines because it had to provide this service. Mr. Hristov rightly pointed out that there are many non-profit lines, but they should be because the citizens of Sofia need these lines. The city of Sofia will always make out of its budget the opportunity not to stop the service, but it will be at the expense of another. It will be at the expense of some other expense. And whether there can be an optimization of course that there can be an optimization. Believe me, especially in reducing 70% of airlines. If electricity and other fuels increase in price by itself, optimization is done because otherwise there is no way to meet these challenges. Only there's a limit to it. You can't just shrivel, shrivel, shrivel, no support to have nowhere and who suffers? In the end, Sophiaans suffer. I therefore appeal to the other lines, which were not very sharp though, but I will also appeal to them, in fact, to this... neither the city of Sofia nor any other city should be merely hostage to any political interests, as we have seen so far. That's the truth. Because you say Sofia City and so on. Well, come on, tell me, which other community did the state help with something? For which other municipality did you refer "Varna," Burgas, for which other city? You can't point me in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u181	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. The next statement is Iskren Arabadzhiev, followed by Desislava Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will step on the previous statement of my colleague Nenkov, but I do not agree that Sofia Municipality is the victim of some political game. So I want to tell a little bit of the bigger picture, in general, about the state's attitude towards municipalities. We have a coalition agreement. That's where we bet we want to decentralize the finances. Because this is the real problem in Bulgaria that municipalities do not have their own funding outside local taxes and fees. Their budget is not related to business activity in the region. And that is sad because for many years, as in the debate on state social security it became clear that pensioners behave intentionally with low pensions so that they can be dependent, and municipalities in Bulgaria are dependent on government. If we have an excuse that only six months are currently in control and we could not do this decentralisation, then you have absolutely no excuse that you have not done decentralization for 12 years. Not one lev did more to stay in the Bulgarian municipalities. No link between business activity, whether it is a corporate tax that we leave in the respective municipality by the working companies, or by the working citizens a percentage of total income tax to stay where they are earned. So to have an incentive for municipalities to attract employers and people to take higher salaries. I'm a representative from Lovech County. For at least 10 years, I have been hearing about cases where an employer has been rejected from creating jobs in the field or from giving high salaries, because it will beat the salaries of the other employers who are already in the area concerned. This would not be the case if the budget of municipalities were bound by what salaries are paid in the municipality. And that's what needs to be done. Because for many years we have seen municipalities depend on one who decides in one place and settle their funding on a project or not single, which breaks the relationship between how active a mayor is, whether through better projects or through better political ties. This is finally what we need to break down as a model in Bulgaria. So if not now, in the next National Assembly, in the next Parliament, we will be able to pass it. What's the connection with Sofia Municipality? I agree that Sofia Municipality, where 2 million people work and live and work a large part of the Bulgarians in the country, produce the most part of GDP and they deserve the money they make to return, but you did not create this model for so many years. I agree that there must be a proper model of funding for municipalities so that taxes remain where they are earned. Thus, people will also see the connection between the taxes they pay and the infrastructure and services they use in the municipality. Here I mark 2 billion is the budget of Sofia Municipality. The own income is 800 million, but if you look at the details of how the financing of Sofia Municipality of local taxes and fees is going, we have 50 million written-off taxes a year, not collected. Seven percent of the taxes to be paid in the municipality are written off every year. Right now we have to vote 74 million. If the city had done its job and collected that 50 million, we wouldn't be having this discussion right now. It is the same with regard to decentralisation between Sofia Municipality and regional mayors. You should know that only 3% of the taxes paid in one area are returned as an investment in the area concerned. Everything else is invested in large infrastructure projects that do not have a specific benefit for the respective neighborhood or region. And that is the sad thing that we also need to change to not only decentralisation at the level of a state to a municipality, but also from a municipality to an area, so that really citizens in every neighborhood and region have the knowledge that by paying the relevant tax, they will be invested where they live and will see the benefit of local, local infrastructure. And another thing. Look at the ratio of local taxes and fees in Sofia Municipality. Thirty thousand deals in Sofia Municipality to acquire property pay 150 million property tax. And 600,000 properties pay 100 million tax. Do you think this is a normal ratio for Sofia Municipality? Mrs. Fandakova failed to build such a financing system so as to engage more people who own housing at the expense of those who acquire property. And it turns out that at the moment the budget of Sofia Municipality is financed by the new construction and purchase, and the acquisition of housing rather than by the people living at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u183	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Now, since all the lines are from GERB, you should probably understand Mrs. Atanasova first. Excuse me, Mr. Mihailov 2nd. And the third Mr. Nenkov, because to him it was more like...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Arabadzhiev, the fact that, on any subject discussed in plenary, the slogan is useful to you for 12 years does not mean that it can be an alibi that you have not taken any action, that you have not made reforms, that you have not prepared these reforms. You understand that if you could criticize the management of GERB until recently, then the people, the vote of Bulgarian citizens, gave you a chance to show what you would do if you were in the government. Seven months, not a single reform. Which way do we accept a budget this year in this plenary?! [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] For the second time. Yes, because at the beginning of the year the government, municipalities worked with the budget adopted by the previous government of GERB. In February and March the budget was adopted, we are now updating it. I suspect there will be another update, because you will not be able to manage if you continue to manage, of course. You are talking about decentralisation, given most likely that the Bulgarian municipalities in their majority are governed by mayors elected by the Political Party GERB. You're pointing at such examples at least. Well, let me give you an example on the topic of Decentralisation and this is the example of my electoral district Ruse and Ruse Municipality. The mayor is from the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Do you know Ruse's problem, which has not been solved for quite a long time and with which a problem on a daily basis almost all residents of the municipality, in neighbouring settlements, suffer a total negative from the lack of a solution. This is the problem with traffic jams, or the so-called taps on the Danube Bridge. How many years has the question been asked about the fees from the Danube Bridge or some of them [[the President signals that time has run out]] I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm And before the elections for mayor, who were won by BSP, I repeat again, and at the present time. But where's your decentralization? Where is your solution to this problem, and provided it is put by a mayor who is from your ruling coalition yesterday? So don't talk about those 12 years, because it's all gone. You have had enough time for seven months to propose reforms, solutions, proposals, you do not. That's the truth. Thank you. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Yeah, you got a little carried away. Second line please, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry I don't see the respect I have here... [[a line from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov]] I don't see you. I see you and I respect you. My esteemed Mr. Dilov, he has just said that we have entered into good terms, and now I think we will come out of it thanks to your serious statement, for which I congratulate you. I just want to address you, Mr. Arabadjiev, and ask you not to be naive. You explain very precisely both the decentralisation of municipalities and what has happened so far. I just want to address both you and your replicators just now and remind them, this is not about a 12-year-old slogan, Mr. Arabadjiev. It is said that people have not forgotten and will not forget the banitsa from the floorings in front of the Holy Seveners, the granite blocks in which people broke their heads under the "Graf Ignatiev," the whole cartoon "Graph Ignatiev," which became the object of reflection throughout Sofia. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They won't forget it anytime soon! They won't forget lighting, which is worth three times the real price. They won't forget the ticket contests. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] None of this will be easily forgotten! And for six months, when chewing gum after gum came out, it was not a green certificate, it was not Macedonia, was it not what, when all the legislative processes stumbled, now on the seventh so, you have shown nothing. How are we going to show when we were standing by 10:00 in procedures to listen to this one and those who practiced rhetoric here from the stands? So let's keep the really good tone, let's accept the budget, but let's not keep throwing ourselves at who's the more, the more, the more. Who is more, more, the most, saw the Bulgarian nation and defined the seats in this Parliament. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u187	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Arabadzhiev! Dr. Mihailov spoiled a really good tone, because I think we were talking about it in the same language. You've crossed the line, but it's a note.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u189	The line is to Mr. Arabadzhiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u190	Now to Mr. Arabadjiev. Look, I'm a representative of Sofia City. Sofia, in a decentralization, and you know it very well. I will be the happiest person, the mayor of Sofia, whoever he is, will be the happiest person. 40% of the revenues in the country, gross domestic product comes from the city of Sofia. The truth is that in a poorly reformed decentralisation, it will turn out that the difference between the different municipalities will become even greater. You know that very well. All the other ideas of increasing the property tax, as I understand it, you want to increase taxes not only on transactions of 150 million, but because it was less revenue from property tax, to increase them too. We're against increasing taxes. But what's the truth? Even the sound of $2 billion. lv. is nothing for this town. Compare it with an average European city in Europe. If you put in Vienna, I think the budget was in the range of 8 billion. Euros a year, and that's why I've seen people get up and clean the light on a ladder, for example, because they just really have enough resources to afford this thing. You can't convince me that in Sofia, living two million people here, we'll have to what? Let's give some $20 million, and then we'll wash our hands. There's no city like this! We have to support this town. We're not punishing anyone, understand that. We don't punish the mayor. He doesn't need to be mentioned by name. He's the city of Sofia. He's chosen by all the Sofians. There's an election next year, people will tell themselves what they think, but we can't let all the citizens become hostages. I don't agree with you that you want to put it there, we don't care. We can't not care. Even years ago, by the way, there was such an idea, the parliament did not take it on a part of the total income tax to come to part of the municipalities, but such a decision had to be made by the municipal councils in each city. Only the municipalities themselves are afraid of this thing to make a decision. It's the last time I'm done. The fact that the municipalities almost depend on the state. Well, I can guarantee you and you may ask, as you are a recent MP, but you may ask your colleagues from all parliamentary groups who have representatives in the local government that the state during GERB has never treated privileges for one or another municipality. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Communicating: "Eee! ")]] And all the municipalities have received... [[Heckling]] Ask the mayor, for example, the town of Pernik, ask the mayor of Ruse. And I can count more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u191	Mr. Nenkov, you've got a little carried away, too. Here you are, Mr. Arabadzhiev for the coat. I'll give you a little more time if you need it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u192	Thank you. There's no need. I believe that I will continue to follow the Rules of Procedure from now on and will limit myself within the limits of my time allowed by the Rules. Back and forth. Mr. Nenkov, I can't agree with you. Yes, the government of GERB may have financed projects of each municipality regardless of the political colors. The point is, it was a decision of the government and the Council of Ministers. And I want the money to stay in every community where people live and pay for it. Yes, Sofia will receive more funds in one decentralisation, but here can remain the transfer mechanism and additional, so that for further catching up of smaller municipalities. I cannot agree that the finances of Sofia Municipality are well managed. That is what I would like to stress here that I cannot vote 74 million, knowing how the funds of Sofia Municipality are being spent at the moment. And I'm giving you an example. Sophia really needs a lot of money. We need 4 billion in an analysis. lv. to compensate and buy private terrains falling into streets or green terrains so as to keep our parks. However, Mrs. Fandakova, or let me not say her name, the mayor of Sofia Municipality, because whoever the mayor is, but I think that if we had another mayor, it would have been better presented by eight million a year. Eight million a year, and if necessary, four billion! You know, I was the deputy mayor of one of the districts of Sofia Municipality. We submitted small pieces of objects over 100, to the chief architect of Sofia Municipality for compensation, for the realization of streets, for the preservation of green spaces in parks and from there they told us: Guess and see how many streets are lost and how many parks will disappear if we don't find those funds. And I am sure that there should be more money Sofia Municipality, and the state should be committed to this 4 billion, so that we keep the green areas for generations to come, but I do not see the desire of Sofia Municipality to have this conversation. There was a company called Sofiaplan, which did a mathematical analysis to prioritize which terrains in the first place to compensate. I don't see the outcome of this. They even decided to change the management of the company and eventually the one who shows the shortcomings of the management in Sofia Municipality to silence it. Mr. Mihailov, people haven't forgotten one expression: It's nice, but it's not ready because they still see it. We see the repair of tram No 5 being carried out, in the square of Macedonia, even before it is finished, the repair is falling apart. So here we are also talking about financial management and about construction and infrastructure. Mrs. Atanasova, you're talking about traffic on the Danube. If we ruled these 12 years, we'd have at least five bridges on the Danube. Thank you. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u193	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. For the procedure Mr. Cholakov. Until they clean up, just to remind you of a few things. Firstly, let us not forget that we are discussing specific texts at second reading. True, the discussion is broad, but as much as possible, please stick, as we often go out and have such much more general discussions, yet a little more discipline, please, from the speakers. Secondly, that you have five minutes, it is not said that you have to use the entire five minutes. If you have something important to say, I think it might be a little shorter. And thirdly, let the lines really be the way it is for objections, not for further clarification, giving time. I understand, it can happen, but it doesn't have to be systematic, so that we can still, at a reasonable time, without ending the discussions, be able to finish the job. I just want to say that the remaining speeches made by Members already recorded are 12 more speeches. Here you are, Mr. Cholakov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u194	I wanted to actually, Mr. Chairman, to make this very remark that it is good for colleagues to stick to the topics, but you, with your wisdom, have already done so. Indeed, several times you make a remark to stick and all stick to what is being said and to the budget texts. In this regard, I cannot say that in order to ease the discussion and to go smoother, it is not necessary, colleagues, to constantly talk about the 12 years of GERB, because each line for the 12 years of GERB creates a response for the new governance. Here I will not be able to say that the new government has not introduced any project to solve some of the country's strategic issues, but has introduced a Law amending the Gambling Act. I was very interested in who first in this Parliament would dare to amend the Gambling Act and what would it say?! Do you know what the P.I.P. says in the motives?! I'll explain to you right now to encourage the mass use of this service by the population. That's it! This is the reform! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u195	And that wasn't quite the point, Mr. Cholakov. [[Heckling]] First Mr. Ganev asked for it, then Mr. Gechev and let's go back to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a procedural proposal. Since you said that at least 12 people are still on the books, maybe now is the time to vote on continuing the time until this point is exhausted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u197	Yeah, that makes sense. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u198	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Let's establish some boundaries of common sense. People are looking at us, waiting for the pension settlement, the budget settlement, other things, we're dealing here with election shootings, some gambling laws, etc. If we start debating gambling, it's not in your best interest that 700 million are gone! Is this what you want us to go out and explain how you hide the thieves of 700 million to the Bulgarian people?! Let's sit where we need to and give the money to the people.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u199	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. There was a procedural proposal. Let's wait a little longer, though, so the coworkers can come. If you want, by the time the coworkers get together, I'll read to you who's on the stand. I think it'll be useful. After the vote for extension the word will receive Desislava Taneva, followed by Alizan Yahova, Alexander Ivanov, Imren Mehmedova, Tsveta Galunova, Ramadan Atali, Mihail Iliev, Denitsa Sacheva, Kostadin Angelov, Lachezar Ivanov, Fatme Ramadan, Evgenia Aleksieva. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] I didn't get it. I'm including you. Guys, I think we're back together. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Ganev: the time for today's meeting to be extended until the first item of our agenda is exhausted, that is, the adoption of the budget. Vote 194 MPs: 192, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We'll continue the discussion. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Yes, come in, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u200	Mr. Chairman, I will allow myself to do two procedures and please put them to the vote. However, as we must also follow the Rules of Procedure, which clearly states that, in the event of a procedure for termination of the debates, they are to be terminated immediately. Here there was some interpretation of the Rules of Procedure from the National Assembly's leadership and accepted to all enrolled, up to half of those enrolled. Therefore, I propose clearly two procedures and whatever the Assembly decides. One is to end the debate immediately, the second is to end it after the 12 people recorded, but to be clear what decision the National Assembly takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u201	Here's your offer back, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a reverse proposal because I believe Mr. Svilensky's proposal is unacceptable because 15 paragraphs have been reported, Mr. Svilenski. If the paragraphs were reported one by one, it would be possible for the Members of the National Assembly to take part in each of the paragraphs. I therefore thank the President for drawing up such a list that he gives the floor to the MPs to justify their proposal and the debate is going relatively calmly and expert on the texts of the State Budget Act. I believe that it is unacceptable for you to limit the possibility that any Member of the National Assembly, which is an importer, should justify its proposal. So please withdraw him. Let's not break the good tone. There are no more than 10 or 12 people, yes, they are recorded, and then we will end this debate and move on to a vote. I don't mind if I do. I don't think any of my colleagues will abuse the procedure. And I guarantee you, our parliamentary group will not.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I propose that we do so, as it has been dealt with differently, but I personally believe that colleagues who have expressed their desire and have already signed up for a speech should be heard. I would therefore suggest that we do so, so that I put an end to the debate to the vote, but with the clarification that I cannot help but give the floor to the others who have already been recorded. Do you want to tell yourself that, Mr. Gajev, what you told me? Here you go. I was just about to comment, but tell me anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u204	Mr. Chairman, yes, so we can clear the room. Yesterday, when the debates began on this point, remind me whether there was such a proposal to end the debate, which has already been voted on once? Because I, frankly, do not see how the same thing will be put to the vote for the same debate on the same point in the bill, on the same debate. It doesn't matter where the Rules say two different parliamentary days. Please show me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u205	It doesn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u206	Okay, Mr. Chairman, show me the paragraph in the Rules as they are trying to tell you from your parliamentary group that there are two different parliamentary days to split the debate on the point. Because on this point, there has already been a similar vote on this debate, on which the House has spoken, I think, twice.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u207	I suggest we not prolong, waste time in these procedural matters. I will put it to the vote, as it is still a point of order and it is logical to be able at certain times to assess whether, although it was rejected yesterday, to consider that we can vote on it now. We're talking, I'm saying, about procedural matters. That is not specified in the Rules. So I am voting on the proposal to end the debate after we have heard those who have already signed up for a speech that I have read. Of course, it does not mean that some of the colleagues may decide not to speak during this time is also an option. Vote 204 MPs: 161, against 35, abstention 8. Thank you. And now I give the floor to Desislava Taneva. Colleagues, Desislava Taneva has the floor. Please, whoever remains, listen to her, who does not, quietly leave the room. It didn't affect my call, Mrs. Taneva. Wait a little longer. Here you go. The map.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My speech is on the occasion of the proposal made by a group of MPs from GERB-SDZ for changes on our so presented budget in the field of agriculture. What these changes include, one part of which is supported, for which I express my gratitude to the Budget Committee for the fellow Members who supported these proposals and, in the second part, unsupported with regard to the proposal to increase the income of the staff, which I will end up with. With regard to the support of farmers, I would like to say a few words as to why this is necessary, why we are late and why this needs to be done urgently. After the Kovid pandemic, unfortunately, and the economic effect of it, the war in Ukraine continued to make negative impressions on agricultural production markets, respectively to farmers. What instruments have the Commission provided to the Member States, the first of which have been notified since 23 March 2022? Divide 500 million. a euro crisis reserve to support farmers in the Member States. Bulgaria's package was 10.8 million. EUR, with twice as much opportunity to provide national funds, or nearly 65 million. BGN, or in that order, now I'm not quite right. As a reaction to this possibility, which has been available since 23 March, the Ministry of Agriculture announced for public discussion a regulation for the granting of these funds to the sector last week. It's funny why vegetable producers and fruit trees are missing from it. There is no reason why they are excluded from this support. There is a sector involved in the field of poultry, pig farming and greenhouse production and the wine sector, sectors which generally have, of course, the same need for support, but also livestock farming is excluded, the rest, i.e. some of the most underfunded sectors are excluded from this support project, which is the realization of the instrument available from 23 March. The second option is the temporary framework for aid measures for farmers in Member States also available on 24 March, colleagues. This temporary framework practically repeats the framework that was available after the pandemic. It gives an opportunity for a farmer to receive 35 thousand. EUR aid ceiling and small and medium-sized enterprise up to 400 thousand Euros. I would just like to point out that until now, there has been no reaction of the Bulgarian government, no public debate has been made between farmers and these small and medium-sized enterprises, and there is no indication of what will be the decision to take advantage of the possibility of support under this temporary framework available on 24 March, I repeat. It's July 1st. Other countries have already made appropriate notifications. The budget thus presented to us for this temporary framework provides for 150 million. lv. as a government decision, which, of course, we support, but we consider extremely insufficient, which is why we have offered additional support under this measure and other national aid to this amount of 350 million. lv. The Commission, the budget, has supported the amount of EUR 300 million. BGN, which, of course, we also support. And the third instrument that the Commission provided as available, which was adopted on 20 May, which also, by the way, repeats an available instrument from the Covid pandemic, is the possibility that 5% of the budget of the Rural Development Programme will be provided under a measure to support the consequences of the war in Ukraine. Here the limits are 15,000. EUR per farmer and 100 thousand. EUR for small and medium-sized enterprises with the condition that by 15 October 2023 the funds under this measure will be paid. At present, there is no open public debate by the government on the programming of this measure and the conditions for its implementation. Here I would just like to point out that its implementation has been in the Ministry's action plan, which was provided to us, not to lose money under the Rural Programme this year, something that has not been happening since 2007 or beyond the fact that it is not the subject of the budget, we hope that this will be done in an urgent manner due to the two effects. The second part of the proposal, which is not supported, is for the incomes of 8 million. lv. to increase the incomes of the staff, especially and especially the pressing problem in the Bulgarian Agency for Safety are food. Inspectors are on extremely low wages, they work on the ground in the most difficult conditions. The Executive Forest Agency "the inspectors are on extremely low salaries. We expect from them an effect, and at the same time, in order to choose quality staff to be able to develop, they must also have adequate pay. They're falling behind indefinitely. I can give an example that illustrates the situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u209	Mrs. Taneva, it's the last one, if you don't mind, since it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u210	Okay. Well, then I'll make my proposal for editing. Currently the Food Agency due to a shortage of staff for some of the activities they started to do, the rent of civil contracts for unqualified work for BGN 1500 and inspectors with internship receive under BGN 1000. This is exceptional, how can I say, an attitude towards this agency without which the agri-food chain cannot function at all. And I appeal for understanding between the different groups, for us to make the corresponding editorials and support this proposal. I'll say it on the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. You have a line from Mr. Hristov, so you can finish the offer in the back. Technically, do it. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Taneva, the assistance that we could allocate from the state budget should be directed in two directions. The first direction is to keep farmers from defaulting because they work under severe conditions in relation to these constantly increasing prices of raw materials and all other components that are used in agricultural production. The second is to master, in a sense, the prices of finished products, if I may say so. My question to you, Mrs. Taneva, is: on the one hand, the Minister of Agriculture says that we have set aside unprecedented funds to support farmers. On the other hand, we see some of them complaining about going bankrupt. That's my first question: is there such a thing or not? As former Minister of Agriculture, what do you think? And two: why have they succeeded? Because they immediately implemented the measures in other European countries, to keep food prices, fruits and vegetables, and in Bulgaria this did not happen? Whether the delay in these measures led to this sharp price hike, hence inflation, and hence the impoverishment of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u213	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Are there any other lines? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u214	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Taneva, I see that you really care about how Bulgarian agriculture develops and thank you for your proposal. I can tell you how Bulgarian agriculture would do. I suggest that we stick that we do not have such frauds and everything is fine. Because otherwise this funding will stop us, too. After all, we did what the industry wanted. But now let's brag about what frauds we are... Tomorrow they'll say, so you shouldn't get that help. This, Mrs. Taneva, is the epitome of how Bulgarian agriculture was developing and your proposals are currently completely hypocritical. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Siveva. Are you here for a third line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u216	Dear Mrs. Taneva, there is no way in the duplicate to train the colleagues what this agriculture is, what should be done. But I'm asking the understanding colleagues to explain this 8 million. lv. additional funds for salaries for IAG and BABBH where they will come from.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u218	Mrs. Sultanova, normally for people who read their phones from this tribune to say the lines, or the notes that are written, I don't answer. [[(Lowered noise and shouting) We continue the Change. Applause and laughter by GERB-SDS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u219	Mrs. Taneva!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u220	I mean, I'd say the same thing again. And what moral satisfaction do you receive by humiliating your country and defamating it? Yes, all checks for guest houses, and for 2% tied up, I've done them by my orders. What is being talked about and exported are checks done by my political will. And you, in order to speak on agriculture, must first be literated. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u221	Mrs. Taneva!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u222	I'm going back to Mr. Donchev's ass.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u223	Don't miss the suggestions alone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u224	I'm moving on to Mr. Rumen Hristov. Yes, Mr. Hristov, the truth is that each not on time given assistance, it is practically losing its effect and makes no sense. Unfortunately, what awaits us in the next 2 months is also not encouraging for farmers. On 12 May, I think it was, a Commission communication came out and thus provided an action plan for the blue corridors of solidarity. Things are getting pretty rough right now. Four roads of agricultural production arrives from Ukraine, which, in connection with the Commission's decision, is without tariffs, without customs duties. This, unfortunately, is done without absolutely any control of the state, and dumping the Bulgarian production. Any untimely support, any insufficient support will continue the process of bankrupting small farms, in the livestock particularly this process already lasts 5 months, there are no measures, and I call, regardless of the political instability that the government has come to power, first to secure the blue corridors of solidarity. Everything that is being done on the market must be under the corresponding fiscal rules, because otherwise the consequences will become even worse. In this regard, and with the debate, my proposal for editing, Mr. Chairman, is in the agriculture section on page 1. 32 in the final text, District of........................................................................................................ I propose, that is, because I accept that there was a political will in the Budget Committee for the total amount of support of the sector, i.e. from the 300 million. BGN, which are in order 12.3, to become..299 million. BGN and add a new line 12.4 with the following text: "To increase the income of the staff in the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture, including the Forestry Executive Agency and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency 8 million. lv. This is the amount of increase in the income of the staff on the ground, including in the Ministry of Agriculture for municipal agriculture services. This is my proposal, and I'll present it in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u225	Yeah, put it in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u226	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u227	Thank you. Mrs. Yahova has the floor. [[Reply.]] For a procedure? Hold on just a second, Mrs. Yahova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened with attention to what they said about agriculture. I'm a man who knows what agriculture means, I know what motika means, I know what villa means. I'm making a difference between a horse and a donkey. But please, Mrs. Taneva, don't be so disrespectful...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u229	Now what procedure is this?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u230	Yeah, I know, I don't have the right to the back, so I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u231	Well, you have no right!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u232	You want respect. I beg you very much: respect for all of them! And not to these guys, yes, they read because they're not familiar, but that doesn't mean they won't get to know each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u233	Mr. Georgiev, if Mrs. Sultanova had been very offended, she would have asked for a personal explanation. But thanks... For a personal explanation, please come in. [[Heckling]] Don't distract Mrs. Taneva right now, Mr. Chobanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u234	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Taneva, I understand why you were so offended. Actually, I don't see you in the gym right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u235	He's here, he's here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u236	Actually, I read your words, that was your quote. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] These are your words, and you know very well where and to whom. [[(Voices from "We continue the Change": "Bravo!" Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova. Now I can't refuse in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines. National Representative Desislava Taneva wants the floor.]] Take it easy! Take it easy! No nerves.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u238	I don't have the nerves, it's funny.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u239	Now tell me what I did wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u240	Mr. Chairman, I very much ask that you observe the Rules and give the floor only under the Rules. She, Mrs. Sultanova, I didn't mention her. Here are read by all colleagues from this parliamentary group of lines and duplicates, written in advance. There is no harm in learning about the next term, but they will remain less. So I ask only on the basis of the Rules that you give them the floor, especially if they have not been written in advance to the lady, and they are struggling. And I also want to say that the facts must be true. Those words I would repeat again because I always defend my country. [[Strong noise and shouts: "Eeeee" by "We are continuing the Change", applause by GERB-SDS.]] And because all our problems are less than other countries. [[Reply: "Previously Boyko. "]] That's right. I regret that cosmopolitanity in some individuals, by chance, leads to selling national interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u241	Mrs. Taneva, you've just come out of the procedure. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Just to clarify that the truth is that you mentioned Mrs. Sultanova by name, so she correctly asked for a personal explanation and explained why you are reading And the fact that colleagues are cooking is bad, is it still positive in my opinion? Mrs. Yahova, your turn has come. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u242	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My speech relates to the proposal of the DPS parliamentary group to increase support funds for farmers by measures that offset the increased prices of energy carriers, feed, plant protection preparations, fuels and fertilisers by 300 million. lv. Overcoming the effects of the horse pandemic and higher electricity prices required timely measures at the beginning of this year to ensure financial support for farmers. Covid, the aid granted by the Ministry of Agriculture at the amount of 143 million. BGN reached the Bulgarian farmers on 15 June. One late notification and late payment of these funds along with the overlay of the consequences of military action in Ukraine led the sector to be in a critical situation. For the first quarter of this year, national statistics reported an increase in prices of products and on-going consumption services in agriculture by 37.6% compared to the same period last year. 152% is the increase in mineral fertilizer prices, 32% is reported to increase energy prices. Only on the basis of prices in June 2022 compared to the previous year, the increase in mineral fertilizer prices was 190%. Thus, at the moment, by assessing interim consumption in the sector with these price indices, the increase in agricultural production costs is by 1 billion. 695 million. lv. This is precisely the cost of seeds, fuels, energy carriers, fertilizers and preparations. With 115 million. lv. the production costs are increased only for fertilisers in the most vulnerable sectors, such as the production of vegetables, fruits, feed for animal feeding. There is also an increase in the production of grapes and tobacco. Three hundred and eighty-eight million. lv. is the increase in fuel and energy costs. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. more costs for the production of vegetables in 205 million. lv. are the increased costs of feed. With the proposed increase of 300 million. lv. The total agricultural resource for the second half of this year will be 450 million. BGN, which will ensure the survival of the most affected farmers and retention of the prices of agricultural products by the end of the year. The proposed increase will also enable support for sectors and categories of holdings not currently supported by the measure. These are, for example, producers of nuts that are outside the bound support and do not receive funds under the crisis measures. In these cases, the increase in the cost of fertilisers and fuels is more than 13 million. lv. There are 6 thousand small farms that raise up to 10 cows and up to 49 sheep and goats, which are also excluded from support under the minimum aid scheme and the model measure. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, the potential number of livestock farmers, bee families and fruit and vegetable producers, of rose oil and rice is more than 50 thousand and with the proposed by the parliamentary group of lv. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. lv. will provide support on average of 9 thousand. EUR per farm. I would like to remind you that when the country's main financial law for 2022 was adopted, we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and proposed that funds for the sector be increased by another 200 million. lv. At the time, the ruling majority did not accept this, but through the eyes of time and an assessment of the crisis at the moment, the assessment is that this proposal was fully justified. We weren't heard back then, but that 200 million. lv. Then it's today's 150 million. BGN, which the government wants to update the budget. On 23 March, the European Commission adopted a Temporary Crisis Framework. Since April, Polish farmers are already receiving compensation for the increased prices of fertilizers, and for Bulgarian farmers there is still no such support. This update will provide the financial resource, and only after the payment of the aid is yet to be notified. Today, honourable Members, with this proposal and with the additional 300 million requested. lv. we, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, are setting the right direction for action at a crisis moment such as this.. analysis and financial assessment of the situation in agriculture, active communication with the representatives of the sector and our representatives in the European Parliament and adequate action, not as it has been in the last six or seven months or without assessment of losses, only promises and late measures. The proposal of the parliamentary group is a response of farmers and the industry's demands. Our support today and the provision of this resource is the answer that Bulgarian farmers expect from us, which guarantee food security in these difficult times. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Yahova. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mrs. Mehmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Yahova, you have very reasoned why these funds are needed for the sector. I would just like to remind you that the first political party, which during the debates even before we opened the update measure at all, said that there was no funds allocated for agriculture, was precisely a movement for rights and freedoms. In addition, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is the only party that has made a meeting with the agricultural industry to hear what their demands are. Our proposal of this 300 million is based precisely on the demands of the sector. In addition, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has also provided a meeting of the agricultural industry for the first time with the Commissioner in Brussels. So, Mrs. Yahova, in your opinion, will these funds really be enough to cover these extraordinary costs that our farmers have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Mehmedova. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Here's your coat, Mrs. Yahova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u246	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Mehmedova, the proposed 300 million additional funds are an addition to this 150 million. BGN, which are requested in the update of the budget by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Council of Ministers. Thus, this 450 million package will provide a minimum of 30% compensation for the increased costs, which, as I said, are, according to statistics, 1 billion. And 600,000. lv. They will be sufficient provided that immediate action is taken by the Ministry of Agriculture to notify State aid to the European Commission and paid as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Yahova. We're moving on to Mr. Alexander Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! In the so read texts for paragraphs 1 to 15 I will allow myself to motivate the proposal made by me and my colleague Alexander Nenkov to assist the municipalities in carrying out their transport service. Then I will continue, if I have time, with another text. The proposal that we have made with my colleague Nenkov leads to an increase in the state subsidy for intra-urban transport in Sofia Municipality of 74 million. BGN, after editing according to the budget of the state a sum of 15 million. lv. These funds, colleagues, provide a quality transport service in Sofia Municipality, compensate for the accumulated resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and the price energy crisis losses, taking into account the social nature of the activity. The proposal also takes into account the fact that the only country within the European Union is Bulgaria, which has not taken measures to protect domestic transport. The health crisis caused by COVID-19 has led to a serious change in the movement of workers in Sofia Municipality. The passenger flow resulting from the restrictive measures introduced by the State in 2020 and 2021 resulted in an average reduction in passengers and a corresponding 30% drop in revenues, reaching 70 in individual months. In addition, colleagues, the electricity and natural gas crisis since the summer of 2020 is continuing and unfortunately not combined with targeted measures to compensate for socially significant services such as intra-urban transport. The difference in costs for energy sources for transport operators in 2019 is compared to 2022. 65 million. lv. after reporting, of course, the compensation granted through the state budget. Since October 2021, municipal transport operators have received compensation only for electricity, with the total compensation received in 2021 being 5 million. BGN and in the current 2022 more compensation of 7,4 million has been received. lv. The revenue under the measure is included in the total revenue of the companies for the year in question. Colleagues, this does not cover our proposal. We also propose to increase the amount of the envisaged subsidy for the transport of passengers on non-profit lines in inland transport and in transport in mountain and other areas. Our offer is the 50 million grant. lv. To be increased by 16 million. And 500,000. The aim of the proposal is to achieve full subsidy for the provision of that service of general economic interest, thereby ensuring mobility of the population along those lines. Another argument among the essential arguments in support of our proposal, my fellow Members, is that the increased funds should be indicated in relation to the reduced airports resulting from the CoVID 19 pandemic and the sharp rise in fuel and electricity prices. It is also for the first time proposed in the State Budget Act for 2022 to provide funds for the long-distance transports outside those under para. 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Road Transport Act, with our proposal for these transports to be provided for an additional 20 million. lv. Thus, all scheduled bus lines will be covered, with the requirement of the mayors of municipalities to provide the funds to carriers who comply with the statutory rules and rules for carrying out the public transport of passengers provided for in the Road Transport Act and its implementing regulations. The adoption of this proposal, fellow Members, provides subsidies for all scheduled bus lines, which will achieve full compliance with Regulation EC/1370. To conclude, my colleague, I would like to mention once again that for us, the incomplete measure, not directed to any target group, is to support some 150 million. lv. I'm just saying it's a little ironic because 150 million. lv. are large, so to speak, an amount spent by the Republican budget which will not achieve the desired effect and will be difficult to implement it by both the administration and the petrol stations. In addition, I can say that to the gas stations and especially to the small gas stations has not yet been communicated by the state how to implement the measure with support of 0.25 cc. per liter for fuels of petrol, diesel without additives, gas for the movement of cars and methane. I mean, that 150 million. lv. will not be enough for more than a month and a half and will especially be used by people who have the means and the opportunity for holiday weekends, will plan their summer months at sea, and will benefit much more than once per month, as was originally proposed. Unfortunately, we've seen that he's changed, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u249	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Imren Mehmedova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I am concerned with an agricultural theme and the proposal of...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv. 33 million. lv. This amount of 5 million. lv. is intended for the adoption of this budget in February, but is currently unused. Our proposal is these funds, increased by 28 million. BGN, to be used to cover the extraordinary costs for the increased social contributions of micro-farmers. During so many crises in front of the sector, the minimum insurance income of farmers increased. The sector is affected by a species of crisis and then by the increased costs caused by the war in Ukraine. Colleagues, it was not exactly this year's time to increase the minimum social security income. There are about 33 thousand farmers registered in the Republic of Bulgaria providing minimum insurance income, and only 5 million are provided in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 for one-off support related to production and micro-farmers. BGN, which are too insufficient to cover the exceptional insurance contributions of farmers arising from the increase in the minimum insurance income of 420 BGN. £710. Colleagues, I believe that you will support the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and so that we can keep our small farmers. Let us not send them abroad, too, because of the impossible costs ahead of them and correct now this increase that they have in the update of the budget. I am sure that every political formation has voters in this sector. So let us protect our native production and preserve the livelihood of the people of the small towns. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Mehmedova. - What's the line? I can't see. Next is a statement by Tsveta Galunova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to bring back the topic in the cultural sector and to draw your attention to two proposals that concern museums and galleries - two sensible, consistent proposals that I am making to you - with a call to continue what we started during the vote on the first budget in March and made sure that we will finish during the budget update. The proposal No 257 concerns museums and galleries of municipal subsidy. These museums and galleries are mostly located in small settlements and they remained outside funding this year. They did not receive funds this year from the first budget we voted on. They have also remained permanently outside the field of state funding, and no legal mechanism is provided for them by which they could pass from museums with municipal subsidy. At the moment, they rely entirely on the limited opportunities of municipalities, which, as we well know, are struggling anyway through the many accumulated crises. This proposal is voted unanimously positive in the Committee on Budget and Finance, for which I would like to express my gratitude to the Members of the National Assembly. Of course, I would be delighted if this proposal were to be voted on positively here as well. The second proposal I have is No 258 and concerns the other 124 museums of state subsidy. At the beginning of the year the Association of Bulgarian Museums asked for an increase of 24 million to the standard for state subsidization of these museums and galleries. Then we gave 12 million, that is, half of their demands, and assured them that we would give the rest of the budget the update and think about them again. I very much hope that today we will finish what we started because we show a consistency in our demands. Here is the moment to highlight this very thickly, because what we asked for during the months of February and March, the same thing we want now. This is a consistency in our demands, and in addition to salaries the funds will go to modernise the material and technical base, renovate the stock houses and halls to meet international standards for the preservation and presentation of our national wealth. Here again, I express my gratitude to those MPs who voted in the Committee on Budget and Finance, for those who have abstained from voting because they have left themselves the opportunity to reconsider today in plenary. I would be delighted if the proposal was voted positively today, so that we can successfully complete the cause for the Bulgarian museums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u253	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. For a line, Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u254	Mr. President, as we have spoken with you, as the procedure for speeches has been terminated, I will make in the form of a replica an editorial proposal for an editorial change in proposal No 47-254-04-221. This is the proposal of the National Assembly for the remuneration of the employees. Our proposal for editorial change reads as follows: "To be created in art. 3, para. 6 sentence 2: Before making changes to the budget of the National Assembly at the expense of the economy, to increase the remuneration of parliamentary employees up to 1 180 thousand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u255	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. It's actually identical to what Mr. Mitev did so we can rely on mutual support for him. Are there any other lines to Mrs. Galunova? I can't see. Would you like a duplicate, Mrs. Galunova? Yeah, you didn't have to. We move on to a statement from Mr. Ramadan Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will bring you back a little bit to the topic of the gas, the subject of Bulgargaz, the subject of Bulgartransgaz. For the farmers, we understand that everything is fine, everything is arranged, there are enough funds, but what about the gas supply and the aids that have been dropped, which will not receive those companies that use gas? In principle, for aid for business and for industry other than the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and GERB other political formations did not think of them, but in this regard we will take regard in the Transitional and Final Provisions. Dear colleagues, today may be the day when it should be very clear to hear that security in gas supply cannot be spoken of, stability in gas supply should not at all be the case, the predictability of not talking at all. I am most responsible for telling you that Bulgaria no longer has gas. Chiren's up to 34%, and that's the amount we left them in the winter. The two ships, which were negotiated by Mr. Asen Vassilev, for unknown reasons are already landed in Turkey and delivered to Bulgaria with 11 dollars more expensive price than the gas Bulgaria received. Many times we have said from this tribune that if businesses do not know, if they do not have security and predictability, they cannot plan their further production, which is now a fact. And if you look at some graphs [[shows]] which are given to us by colleagues who are engaged in research and research of the gas - black frames, where Bulgaria is shown, you will see that the gas for the industry in Bulgaria is at the highest price and the gas for everyday life is not one of the cheapest. You will say: "Good that there is. " - Good that there is, because there will be no gas this winter. Today, Bulgargas is already over 300 million in losses, and we demand to give them State aid within 150 million. EUR, in order to withdraw credit, and notice, for this credit it is precisely written that it must be withdrawn from the European Development Bank, and also from the European Development Bank (Bulgartransgaz) there is a need for those funds to expand Chiren, but there is no specific bank there. And we ask ourselves the question: who and why wrote about this guarantee, which was given to Bulgargaz, and the bank is also defined? Dear colleagues, the situation in the country regarding the supply of raw materials in terms of gas should now be clear to everyone. We need to be clear and we need to be clear: except that the bank is also designated, there is still no regulation who will support the strategic reserve in Chiren? Whether it will be a Bulgarian company, whether it will be a State Reserve, whether it will be a private company, who will it be, there is still no regulation, and we will vote today and give them this money. Dear colleagues, a few months ago, when I stood on this platform, I explained to you that the intervention of Mr. Asen Vassilev and Prime Minister Kiril Petkov will lead us to this situation, where there is no more where to get those quantities of gas that we need for business during the summer period. Today they will negotiate or be photographed in front of a ship of 65 million cubic metres in Greece, and with that, the two auctions that had been launched since the last time for delivery, neither for capacity, nor for quantities, no one has appeared. Monday or Tuesday is expected to be another tender, but for now our studies show that there is no one to deliver gas. I understand that the five minutes are over, but it is much more important not to run out of time to negotiate gas, so that we can create peace, because December, January, those who cut off gas supplies, which have singled out gas supplies, will bring us more than 1 billion. EUR for payment for gas delivery because we are not receiving gas from Russia, on top of that you will leave us with no raw materials. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u257	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there any lines? I can't see. The word is Mikhail Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u258	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a representative of the academic community, it is only natural that my speech should be related to the budget update in the higher education part. I will stop and motivate two of our proposals to the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, which are directly related to higher education. The first proposal is 20 million to increase the alimony of state universities under art. 92, para. 2 of the Law on Higher Education. Sensitive increases in electricity prices, heat coming from water and all supplies related to training have led to a complex situation in almost all universities in our country. Rectors and academic councils had to take any austerity measures that in no case led to or would not lead to an increase in the quality of higher education, so we urgently proposed an increase within the limits of the budget's capabilities. We insisted on 30 million, but then we were convinced that 20 could be separated, which would hardly be enough, but it would still be a breath of air to improve the quality of higher education and not to look for options on how the Ministry can provide scholarships for children to study abroad, but to attract leading lecturers and create conditions for our students to study and remain in Bulgaria. The fact that they study abroad is nothing wrong, the bad is that only 15 - 20% of students abroad return to Bulgaria. This is one point and I believe that we will unanimously support this proposal to increase the support funds for state higher schools, and I would like to point out here that these promotion funds are not given unconditionally, and they are related to the requirements of the Higher Education Development Strategy by 2030. We stress that these funds will be allocated on the basis of a comprehensive assessment of the quality of training and its compliance with the needs of the labour market, that is, this is very important and it is necessary to protect precisely this set-up, which is regulated by the adopted two years ago National Strategy. The second proposal, which I would also like to motivate, is about the social costs of students and PhD students studying in Bulgaria. The situation there is also delicate and therefore the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS proposed an increase in the budget by 7 million. These funds, colleagues, will be spent in two directions. The first direction is for expenses for students. The food is currently BGN 5 and the bed, which is given for a bed in the dorms, is BGN 1.40. These funds are extremely insufficient in terms of new prices and this ever-growing inflation. This is why we believe that through this money some of these millions will be given exactly to the students' chairs and dormitories and to the universities managing the dorms to improve nutrition and improve the conditions in our dorms. The second part we intend to spend on this promotion is the funds for the PhD students. Extremely important, vital, I'd say, problem, since doctoral students are our shift. The people who will come in five or ten years to rule and run our economy. Right now, PhD scholarships have really gone up. By April they were 500 leva, then made it 750. This was a good step, but you understand all that we cannot attract our best students for PhD students, given that the scholarship is 750 BGN and the minimum salary is 710. I am a lecturer and professor of information technology and telecommunications, and I have to tell you that it is extremely difficult to attract PhD students in our field, as the best students start working with a few thousand leva salary, so we consider a part of this additional subsidy to be given for a new increase in PhD scholarships. I appeal to all my fellow Members to support the proposals relating to higher education, as this is extremely important for the future of the country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u259	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. Are there lines? Here's a line for you, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u260	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Iliev, I am, of course, solidarity with your call: all colleagues to support the additional funds for the higher education system. A few details of what you said. You have missed that, in fact, the 20 million we offer are different from the 20 we have in § 17 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Budget Act. They, in particular, in art. 1, para. 5 and were initially directed according to the complex assessment, but you know, it was linked to a change in the rules of higher schools, to the introduction of a methodology for an attestation, which the education minister himself withdrew a...... which was linked to some, I would say, unthinkable criteria, science indicators, which he presented and which he also withdrew. The good news is that in the end I think there is some agreement with both the Rectors and with the trade union organizations in the higher education system that these 20 million will go to increase the minimum basic salaries of the academic schools, one of the policies that we started carrying out the previous years, and in particular in 2020. As important are the minimum basic salaries of the different teacher's schools, teacher's and so on, are important for the different academic positions, assistant's assistant, associate's assistant, professor's assistant, because these minimum salaries have signal significance for young people who choose to join the teaching profession. You said about the PhD students. But what you said about the PhD students that they could go to several thousand paychecks, even more so is keeping them as teachers, which is important. In order for us to have quality higher education, we need to have good lecturers. The best students to become lecturers, and there must be this forwarding growth of the minimum wage. Unfortunately, in 2022, we didn't have it in the budget, but if the amendment in § 16 is now adopted and the 20 million are heading towards this, it will be positive news. We're offering another 20 million to increase the quality component. In other words, these higher schools with better indicators of academic research and realization will receive more funds. In other words, if medical universities that have high salaries do not receive one component, they will receive the other and eventually the Ministry of Education will be able to continue both policies that have been carried out so far and which, I dare say, are largely indisputable. I agree with you that this is not enough. With regard to the funds for the students, however, I think that for half a year there could be a decent compensation for both the regulations for bed and the regulations for esophagus and to stay a little bit for scholarships to raise the scholarships of students and PhD students. In fact, for PhD students there is already one step, but perhaps a more serious step should be taken in terms of students' scholarships, given that inflation is not even 20% official on the index of the National Statistical Institute, it will very soon reach 20%. So a 20% increase will retain the purchasing power of student scholarships and, in my opinion, is more than mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u261	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Here you go, Mr. Gechev, for a line. That's a second line. Is there a third? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Iliev, everything is fine, but it was in order to say for what reasons in the last 10 years colleagues from GERB refused to vote on the proposals I made on behalf of the Bulgarian Socialist Party for an increase in the salaries of lecturers, researchers in science and higher education. Because your income policy was such that you correctly increased teachers' salaries, but you didn't say that you made teachers' salaries higher than our salaries and professors of nanotechnologies, computers and others. And we are very happy that you should say that your parliamentary group has finally matured for BSP's proposals and supported them. Otherwise, there's nothing wrong with it, but we have to be precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u263	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Here you go, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u264	Mr. Chairman, I agree with Mr. Krasimir Valchev's line. Indeed, I have failed to say that this 20 million is different from those previously laid down in the budget under art. 17 of the Transitional and Final Provisions. There we all made one mistake, as a result of which, as Professor Gechev said, in many higher schools the salaries of assistants are lower than the salaries of a beginner teacher, which is not normal. There is probably some delay, as Professor Gechev said, in raising wages, but this policy began by the government of Mr. Borisov in 2020, and wages were raised significantly, setting minimum values for assistant, chief assistant, associate professor and so on. It is true that we are probably late, but better late than never, and we must continue at this pace to move forward, because really things in higher education are not good enough or not as good as we would like to be to compare ourselves with the leading European and American universities, which is why many of our children are leaving Bulgaria. I repeat: there is no harm in going to study abroad, the bad news is that they do not return, and this is very important, and that is why we must do everything possible, as you see it, to increase subsidies so that we can catch the level of at least good European universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u265	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. Now Mrs. Sacheva has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u266	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll take the floor under Art. 1, Art. 1. 1, para. 2 in "Societal Policy Costs', where our parliamentary group has proposed the allocation of additional funds of 50 million. lv. for target heating aid, including wood and pellets. We have a difficult and difficult winter ahead of us. We are on the verge of new elections or at least there is a vague fate about how Bulgaria will be managed in the coming months, and that is why from now on the most vulnerable people and those who need social protection, low income and risk groups should be considered. Since the beginning of July, in practice, only a few days later, the campaign for collecting applications for targeted heating aid has started. In the last heating season 2021, the target heating aid received 261 thousand persons and families and the amount paid for them amounted to 136 million. For this heating season, 181 million are provided. And 300,000. lv. and some 300,000 people are expected to submit applications. However, we believe that this number of needy people will probably be greater. The practice has already clearly shown that the forecasts that the current government is working with do not prove to be true in both inflation and electricity prices and fuels are expected to be higher. At the same time, with pensions increased from yesterday, from the day before, there is expected to be a significant number of pensioners who will drop out of the group of the entitled, but this will not make them less needy and this could lead to social tension. Annually in the order of art. 2, para. 3 of the Ordinance, by order of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, lays down a correction coefficient whereby pensioners do not lose the right to heating and after updating pensions. For each new heating season, the coefficient shall be updated on a chain-based basis by a percentage equal to or greater than the percentage determined by the rule of art. 100, para. 1 of the Social Security Code, on the basis of which the monthly amount of the target aid for the upcoming heating season is also determined, but this time the pensions entered BGN 60. additives and various correction additives of 0,50 ct up to 55 BGN, which are obtained from different categories of pensioners. On the other hand, along with the fact that the number of Bulgarian citizens in need of heating aid will increase, it is also necessary to increase the amount of aid that will compensate for the increase in the price of electricity for domestic consumption. Due to these arguments, we propose to provide for this additional resource of target heating aid of 50 million. lv. We are grateful for the fact that this proposal has been adopted in the framework of the discussions in the Budget Committee, but it is accepted by a statement relating to the analysis of the results of the nine-month period, and provided that the balance under Article is not violated. 1, para. 3. We would like to note that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy should start working on possible criteria to extend the scope of this targeted assistance, as we are convinced that it will need these funds. We in our proposal have proposed this to happen at the expense of reducing capital expenditure, as so far the practice shows that they are not spent in full. We believe that this proposal will receive the support of the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u267	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Are there any lines on the speech? I can't see. The next statement is Mr. Angelov's. Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u268	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our proposal with colleagues Asen Baltov and Lachezar Ivanov is related to supporting the activities of two medical institutions in the country. One of them is St. Ekaterina and the other is St. George EAD. The total amount we propose to increase to a net amount is 55 million. BGN to be given respectively 25 million for the construction of a medical-diagnostic block for hospital structures in the children's and oncological specialties in the hospital "St. George" in the city of Plovdiv for the needs of South Bulgaria, and the second, for furniture and equipment with medical equipment and equipment and putting into service the expansion of the University Hospital "St. Ekaterina" EAD in the amount of 30 million. lv. I'll start with St. Catherine. At the beginning of the year, I came across an article by a patient with pulmonary hypertension who says: "This year has been extremely difficult for all patients with rare and chronic diseases, for waiting transplants. So I wish now, in 2022, Bulgaria finally had a national plan for rare diseases. On 16 December 2022, the UN General Assembly adopted the first UN resolution of its kind on people living with rare diseases and people taking care of them. It will enable these people to stay longer on the labour market, as well as easier to find work, and also access to more therapies. Patients should also finally have access to intravenous therapy in the third and fourth functional class of pulmonary hypertension in 2022. Dear colleagues, for people with pulmonary hypertension in Bulgaria for 10 years there is a very well organized and structured medical care. We also have three specialized centers in the country. This greatly improves the situation. Patients are diagnosed and treated much better than 10 years ago. Administratively the road is also crowded and the patients receive therapy, which is taken by the NHIF. There are two patient organisations in the area of pulmonary hypertension, so at present, in terms of therapy, the situation in these patients is good. In Bulgaria there is no established path or methodology for patients in Bulgaria who are already targeted for lung transplantation. The idea is that these three centers in Bulgaria, which monitor patients with pulmonary hypertension, have some formal connection between them, create a reference center that deals with pulmonary transplants. About two to four patients in Bulgaria with pulmonary hypertension really need a lung transplant. Problem is, we don't have a lung transplant center like this. There is also no established stable link to a European centre such as it had with the AKH hospital in Vienna. This is what motivates us to be allocated this 30 million for the provision of the hospital St. Ekaterina. What has been done so far with regard to lung transplants in Bulgaria? More Minister Ananiev started this idea by launching in his day the lung transplant program in Bulgaria and two teams of employees of St. Ekaterina hospital were sent to training in Vienna. So far there have been three trained surgeons, two anesthesiologists, one perfusionist and two nurses. To begin lung transplantation in Bulgaria, it is necessary to complete the new wing and its equipment with a technique for St. Ekaterina. These are our motives in this proposal. With regard to St. George's Hospital, we propose to allocate 25 million to the construction of a new children's clinic for the treatment of patients with various diseases in pediatrics as well as oncology. The Clinic of Pediatrics and Genetic Diseases of the University Hospital is housed in two buildings with a common staircase cell and constructively connected. The clinic of pediatrics is the only specialized structure for the treatment of children's diseases in the South Central region of Bulgaria, corresponding to the third level of competence in medical standards. The region includes five districts of Plovdiv, Pazardzhik, Smolyan, Kardzhali and Haskovo. The clinic treats all acute condition, all heavier and more complex for diagnosis and treatment cases in the field of pediatrics. Some 2,500 children pass through the E.R. every month and about 30,000 children for the year. More than 6,000 children with acute diseases of the internal organs are hospitalized in the clinic every year, including cardiological, neurological, oncohematological and other diseases. Departments that carry out activities in profile specialties are revealed, some of which are the only ones for the region of Southeastern Bulgaria - children's endocrinology, children's neurology, children's pneumology, phthsiatry, children's rheumatology, children's cardiology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u269	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Are there any lines? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line is to Professor Angelov. Very well explained what is expected with the 30 million allocated to St. Catherine's Hospital for the development of lung transplants. But please, Professor Angelov, develop exactly what we want to do with the 25 million that are being allocated to the children's hospital in St. George. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u271	Mr. Baltov, you should have said you objected that he didn't explain the 25 million. No other lines, apparently. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u272	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Baltov! Yes, it is really the only place that this structure works on 65 clinical pathways, such as for Plovdiv district and neighbouring districts the clinic is the only place where medical care can be provided and certain studies can be performed, such as intensive treatment of comatose conditions, unindicted by trauma, leukemia, lymphomas, haemorrhagic diatheses, solid tumors in childhood, poisoning and toxic effects of domestic poisons and medicines, primary immunodeficiencys, Muscovisciasis, colonoscopy in children and studies of evoked auditory and visual potentials. It is important to highlight the particular public sensitivity to medical activities in the Pediatrics Clinic in relation to children with cancer. Cancer disease increases in all age groups, but to varying degrees. Malignancies in general are a serious problem and are increasing globally as well as in Bulgaria. For some types of cancer there are favourable trends in improved diagnosis and effectiveness of newer therapies. The condition of the building fund at the moment of the Pediatrics Clinic cannot, I repeat, for all colleagues, be unable to provide normal working conditions for the staff, nor adequate household conditions related to hospital stay and the service of the children and their parents. In short, the same does not meet the current requirements for hospital infrastructure, the requirements for safe health conditions of work, including sanitary hygiene standards. The aged base does not allow for full compliance with the current medical standards. The rooms do not have private bathrooms, and in many places in the building fund there is a mixing of the streams of different categories of patients and staff. The same applies to reception and diagnostic cabinets and others which, as size and location, do not comply with the regulations in force. That is why we believe that the construction of this hospital will improve the system of children's healthcare in southern Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u273	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I suppose Mr. Ivanov will also comment on the medical theme, so, Mrs. Atanasova, I suggest after him. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. Well, let's sort the debate out a little bit, though, as content.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u274	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I stand before you again after 24 February, when we adopted the country's budget. Then from this tribune I appealed to be granted 3 million. lv. for people who need transplants. Since then it has been many months, I would not say such a long period of time to forget what has been said here, from this tribune, but looking at the budget in § 15, I do not see this 3 million. BGN, which then will not forget Mr. Karimanski as Chairman of the Committee on Budget and Finance, came to me and promised that in the update of the budget the 3 million. lv. will be granted to people who expect to receive support from us and a chance to move on with their lives accordingly. For information only, I will share several numbers, namely those who are waiting for a kidney transplant and number of 863 people. People who are expecting a liver transplant are 41 people. The people who are waiting, which the colleague, lung transplants, was talking about just now, are 20 people. Some of them couldn't wait exactly for the moment in which this vital transplant was to take place. Here I open a clamp for people who want to hear more or less about pulmonary hypertension, which the professor spoke about just now. This is that in connection with the round table held here at the National Assembly on transplantation issues, it was noted that there is no register for people with pulmonary hypertension. This is extremely important, since without a register, we could not predict and how much or how many people would need to carry out this type of operation potentially. The Ministry of Health has apparently been visited here by this tribune, that people who are expecting a transplant hope that they will only get a sip of life from the money they are giving away for transplants. This round table was under the patronage of Deputy Minister Petar Grivenev, who took on the commitment to create a new standard for transplants. In general, there were very loud promises to provide finance, to train our Bulgarian specialists, so that Bulgarian citizens can enjoy the skills, knowledge and opportunities of our medicine and not go abroad and carry out these transplants. They were also promised resertization of the medical facilities that perform transplants in Bulgaria, but all this remains a wish, as we see no financial expression in the budget. I am surprised that I also do not see Professor Mihailov in the hall, who also supported all these ideas to increase the funding of transplants and give a new path and boost for the development of transplantology in Bulgaria. Since I am also a contributor to this 30 million for St. Catherine's Hospital, I would also like to say a few words that this money, which my colleagues and I want to provide for in the budget, we want it so that our medicine can actually be at the necessary level, at the needed global level, so that patients can receive the most up-to-date medical care. I'm going to say a few more words, and I'm going to finish on the fact that St. Ekaterina is one of our national prides and centers that deserve this money. Just for information, I would like to say that during the past year at the hospital.St. Ekaterina. under the leadership of Professor Nachev 10 mechanical hearts were made, which is, if you notice and compare with other neighboring countries, this is one success. And I am surprised here at the latest publications that were made for wanting to remove one of the most successful cardiosurgeons in Bulgaria, one of the best managers in the country at the moment to be removed from this clinic. So from this high tribune, I want to address everyone who cares about medicine, so that we respect, protect our specialists, and accordingly the money that we have asked to be granted, to be voted in the Chamber to enable the development of such vital branches in medicine, just like transplantology, and therefore to be able to receive all those who are waiting for help in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u275	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a line to it? I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, in most of the proposals of our parliamentary group and I am an importer, but I would like to focus on two of them within five minutes, because I believe they are important, and a large part of the other Members of my parliamentary group have paid attention to them and have called on you to support them. First of all, I would urge you to support my proposal submitted together with Mr. Kiril Ananiev for the design and construction of an Orthodox Christian temple in the Republic of Cyprus 100 thousand. lv. This is in art. 1, para. 5, new t. 14 in the field of Culture, rest work and religious activities. This proposal is a consequence of a visit in which we took part with colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group Mr. Vigenin, and Mr. Mitev from the parliamentary group of the BSP. The three of us made a commitment to the Bulgarian community in the Republic of Cyprus, which is more than 50 thousand Bulgarians, to propose in the update of the budget such an amount that they believe would be sufficient to start designing such an Orthodox temple. I would like to point out that there is no such Bulgarian Orthodox temple in the Republic of Cyprus. Again, I stress that the Bulgarian community there is very large and this initiative is supported by the Holy Synod with their decision, which was voted on last week. I very much thank the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and the Metropolitans in the Holy Synod for making such a quick decision after the request of the Bulgarians living in the Republic of Cyprus. My second proposal is again under § 1 and concerns a completely different sphere of public life, namely the sphere of security. My proposal concerns funds in the security sector and, in particular, in the State Agency, National Security. At the last hearing in the Commission for Control of the Services, the President of the State Agency set out the need for additional funds for capital expenditure for the development of two projects: one of the projects: the construction of a Center for Prevention and Counteraction of Complex Destructural Processes and the construction of a communication and information system for the exchange of classified information in real time. The first project shows that many funds are needed. Therefore, all colleagues of the Commission, making it clear that, in this update, we cannot bet the spending of more than 29 million, have made a proposal only for the second project, namely: the necessary funds to build the virused communication and information system for the exchange of classified information in real time, the estimates show that 5 million are needed. Six hundred thousand. and BGN 800, with 1 million needed by the State Agency for this year. And 200,000. lv. for capital expenditure. In this sense, this is our proposal and I hope that it will receive support, as well as additional funds of 2 million. BGN, which are related to an increase in the remuneration of the employees there. Thank you. I hope that both proposals will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u277	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I think it's important too, but you'll have to decide later. The line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u278	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, I have a question for you and he is on the general update. You submitted a motion to overthrow the government, and your motive was the government's financial policy. And you say all the time that this is a very bad financial policy, very poorly implemented. Yet with all your proposals that are already approaching a billion, you show that this is how the financial policy is made, that there is a billion to find. And my question is: how do you live with this contradiction? On the one hand, we have led the weakest and worst financial policy, on the other hand, it turns out that despite all your attempts to break the budget, there is money in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u279	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Second line, Mr. Valchev. With a request that the line be to Mrs. Atanasova, after all, not to Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u280	Yes, Mrs. Atanasova, as I assume she lives in this contradiction, which Mr. Mitev does. That's why I wish I could make that line. Mrs. Atanasova, our budget is proposed with 7 billions of 600,000 deficits, with expenditures that burden many subsequent budgets. But something worse with holes in the costs that have to be secured sooner or later. What if these holes aren't secured? There will be tensions and eventually these costs will still have to happen. Therefore, experienced financiers make the budget so that it is balanced between all functions, among all programmes, between all social activities. But since this has not been done, additional funds must be offered between first and second readings. It became clear that the gross domestic product was reduced; it became clear that the deflator would probably be higher, as inflation in the producer's prices is nearly 40% In my opinion, it is naive to expect an 11.4% deflator of gross domestic product as at stake. Here in January and February, we warned the Finance Minister, the ruling majority, that the gross domestic product will not be 143 billion, will be 150 billion. The same is going to happen -- it will most likely be 155 billion gross domestic product, what we are betting. In this sense, these additional funds not only do not lead to an increase in the deficit, but potentially solving problems, they lead to a potentially lower deficit. Unfortunately, neither at the first level of the fiscal policy, where the balance must be tied, has the budget done well, it is made with a huge deficit, transferring obligations to future generations; nor at the second level of the allocation of expenditure between sectors, functions and programmes, has been done well and therefore needs to be adjusted. That was my line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u281	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Is there a third line to Mrs. Atanasova? I can't see. Mrs. Atanasova? Thank you. Mrs. Ramadan has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My statement relates to § 1, para. 5 in the field of science and education. I would like to point out that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is supporting the House in the Science and Education section, but it finds it insufficient. And in the Commission, it made its additional proposals that fully take into account the need to support science and education. The need for additional funding is aimed at the better effective operation of this portfolio, which is, of course, extremely insufficient to obtain the necessary results in this important portfolio for the State. But because of the unpredictableness and ignorance of reality by the rulers, as well as the neglect of these problems on their part, we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have made the following proposals, namely: We're offering an increase of 20 million. lv. for the maintenance of education in state universities under art. Reg. 91, para. 2 of the Law on Higher Education by increasing the burden of distribution based on a comprehensive assessment of the quality of training and its compliance with the needs of the labour market. We support the 5.5 million increase. lv. the salaries of workers at the Agricultural Academy for the implementation of scientific, innovative and educational activities in the field of agriculture and food. We also support the increase in social costs for students and PhD students by 7 million. lv. Of course, together with other colleagues, we also support the 150 million increase. lv. for remuneration and compensation of the increased costs of maintenance and food of educational institutions in the system of pre-school and school education. I would like to point out that this amount will meet the needs caused by high inflation, high electricity prices, that is, for raising standards. Schools, kindergartens and educational institutions really need these funds. We in the DPS support strategic priorities in the field of education because, financed in the proposed way, guarantee transparency, efficiency and quality. We are convinced that these proposals will also be supported in this House, as have been supported in the Commission, because the maturity of a country can be deduced from what funds are allocated to science and education. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u283	Thank you, Ramadan Hanım. - What's the line? I can't see. With these applauses, there are no objections. Eugenia Alexieva has the floor. Colleagues, let me just say that after the debate is over, I will rest and the vote will begin immediately afterwards at the exact hour I declare the end of the break. Here you are, Mrs. Alexieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u284	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to address the proposal of my colleagues from the GERB-SDS group for the state to support urban transport in Sofia Municipality. I would like to start from this point that, when adopting the budget at the beginning of this year, the government has made a commitment that it will give funds for urban transport in Sofia in the update of the budget. Unfortunately, it didn't happen and there was only one intention left. In fact, the government sent a letter to Sofia Municipality, giving advice to Sofia Municipality on how to make optimization and reforms. And here I would like to take account of the optimism of my colleagues who spoke before me today in this sitting. Optimization actually means cost reduction. So Sofia Municipality has to cut employees short, cut schedules, routes and at the same time raise the price of tickets and city transport cards. I want to tell you, colleagues, that optimization Sofia Municipality does every month, with over 70% of the schedules in Sofia being changed on the basis of the intelligent transport system and GPS devices that are in the buses. 70% of buses lead to a subway stop, and all trams lead to a subway stop. There are also no bus lines to duplicate the subway. So I think this is optimization. Over 5% of the route schedule was reduced last fall. Over 5% of administrative staff is also shortened. I just want to say that with this optimization and with these reforms, there is no way to respond to the big problem. In fact, the major problem of transport in the capital is the increased prices of energy carriers. This is 330% increase in natural gas costs, about 230% increase in electricity costs. Without the aid from the state and without the funding being granted as aid to Sofia Municipality, it turns out that at some point we can be left without urban transport. I mean, about 550 million trips take place annually in the capital, not only for people living in Sofia but for all who use this transport. The other one, which is about 400,000 citizens use this service daily and by 2019 there has been a constant increase and increase in sales revenue of travel documents on cards, on tickets. When the Kovid pandemic came after 2019, for 2020 there was a reduction of 60 million. lv. in revenue which was as revenue from the sale of transport documents. That's why the 60 million. lv. every next year, which is like spending the Sofia Municipality, because there are also investments being made in order to make this urban transport more comfortable, more friendly, to be able more people to benefit from this service, so at the moment the Sofia Municipality has had the opportunity to take money from other major projects in order to be able to finish the money for urban transport, it is already falling into some kind of inability. And I think it is right for the state to help the Sofia Municipality at this time and really give these necessary funds. Because in this case we are talking that the state and the municipality, whether it is the Sofia Municipality or any other municipality, should be partners, should work together in sync and solve the problems, rather than inflation, which came with this management, in fact, for the costs of all people, and brought us to this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u285	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Cholakov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u286	Dear Mrs. Alexieva, I already feel sorry that we have to use so much time to explain to our colleagues that in the end the state budget owes Sofia. Because, as far as I understand it, and perhaps this is what you should have mentioned in your speech, all municipalities are given for public transport. Of course, not everything they have said, but about 80% I have just consulted with Mr. Karimanski, the Sofia City Transport is given half, that is, if we talk about justice, Sofia is wronged. Apparently until recently, the ruling majority had some kind of pressman to punish Sofia, unclear why, without realizing that he was punishing two million Bulgarian citizens, that and more. I would also like it to be noted in this topic and to end it once and for all, I hope, in Germany, where some colleagues have studied, from one month the Bundestag has decided to establish a ticket price, a monthly public transport card in all municipalities of 9 euros. This is a map for the entire public transport for all municipalities - 9 euros, and the federal budget is reading this thing with 2 billion. And 500 million. Euros. Hardly the Germans are dumber than we are, they hardly know how to overcome an economic crisis, recession and inflation. And you see that in this situation, they are not just starting to arrive at their municipal transport, they are lowering the price to infinitely low levels so that people can use it. That's what I call support. And we are now praying to Sofia to complement 50% of the deficit, which, colleagues, I apologize, is just a pity. I just wanted to make a note of it so we could all keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u287	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there any other lines? A hole? [[Reply from the National Representative Evgenia Alexiev: "Duplika! "]] I don't think he had anything to do with it, but... You can add, you're right. Here you go. [[Replications from the National Representative Evgenia Alexieva.]] I'm sorry I made you so discouraged. And the last statement was "Tomas Bikov." Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u288	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I started my speech yesterday at the wrong place and where it wasn't the right place, but even though I was last to speak, I think this is a very important topic, especially for people who are in the field of culture and arts, and rather people who work in the field of performing arts. Perhaps we are partly responsible for what is about to happen for the coming days and months, because the budget came to us in the Cultural Commission with one text, which states that 30 million are being allocated for anti-crisis measures in an epidemic situation. Personally, I thought that this 30 million was to be given, and it turned out to be given with the budget that we adopted in March. And because in that budget were 31.4 million, we from GERB-SDS offered to return the 1.4 million and become 31.4 again so that they would not decrease. However, the problem is this. This 30 million has now turned out to be already allocated to the Credential Fund. They can't practically go for anti-crisis measures. The fact is that the epidemic situation ended some time ago, but it is a fact that we are currently in a very serious price crisis and with what we are going to adopt today, we will do the following - we will return the stage arts two years back - 2019, when there was not yet a crown virus, there was no price crisis, there was economic growth, and they will begin to finance the theatres, operas, Philharmonics and so on, will start to finance with the standard that has since. He hasn't changed. What will that lead to? Almost certainly this will lead to theater failures, operas somewhere in October. Let's just say the summer when they work less, maybe they won't feel it. But there's nothing planned. And here I regret that there is no minister, even though they are resigned, although it is not known how long they will be ministers, but whoever is the minister of finance mostly, because I no longer know how much culture can help, there should be about 30.. 35 million to continue this programme, which covers some of the salaries of actors, opera singers, the people who work in these cultural institutes. This thing has to happen immediately so it can go on from July 1st. Tomorrow's July 1st. Starting tomorrow, this stops. And a budget of the Ministry of Culture, which was increased by 100 million, and good thing it was increased when the regular budget was adopted, would turn out that the performing arts would go... that this cultural infrastructure of performing arts would begin to be destroyed. Without explaining why. Without offering any action plan in the coming months.. whether with any continued anti-crisis measure, because in this form can be granted these 30. 35 million, and this will give time to prepare this infrastructure for some new model of operation in the new conditions, if you will at the new prices, but it is not in the budget. There are no proposals from the Ministry of Culture in the budget, which speaks of an unexplained attitude towards this sector within this crisis, which is pricey, and there, mind you, work some of the lowest-paid people in the country, however shameful that sounds. They're low-income people. Let's leave them now, in the next six months, to welcome, if you will, next winter, with a triple price of electricity and without this help we simply condemn them to bankruptcy. And everyone should know that. Therefore, I call on the current government, which is still responsible for what is happening tomorrow, to take the necessary measures to continue this programme in some form. It's not much money, but it's extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u289	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Are there any lines? Here's a line for you, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bikov, because I am not a member of this committee because of my own unreasonableness, I would like to ask you do we have any proposal from the Minister of Culture to update the budget for culture in any area related to the area? That's my first question. And the second question is that if one day it manages, I hope for the good of Bulgaria not to happen soon, it will close down the Ministry of Culture because we believe that there is no need for this, the past six months in your opinion, Mr. Bikov, and in relation to the proposals for an update of the budget, do you think that they are an argument in our favor that there is no need for such a ministry and a good committee, culturally, in the National Assembly could seize its functions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u291	Now, that's a little off topic, the second especially. [[National Representative Toma Bikov wants the floor.]] Wait, wait, Mr. Bikov. Mrs. Petrova, second line. Third line, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u292	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bikov, you really stressed yourself an unprecedented budget for culture in times higher than those on which our society has, unfortunately, been watching and suffering. During your reign were left all this together really at the mercy of your own dramatic destiny, so... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] That's exactly the facts. Of course we won't leave them. Of course there's enough money in the Ministry of Culture. Unfortunately, there is no capacity that still needs to be built, to work on it. That's why it's back in your part of the story, not with us, and you know that very well. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u293	Mr. Chobanov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Bikov, we are beginning to accumulate information in the last days, and it is thanks to the efforts we have made to write a new budget in practice during the update that in many areas and areas of money that are usually spent rhythmically during the year and are known where they are going, are allocated to a project principle within a few weeks. This is the case with 80 million for science, from which we asked 7 million to be reassigned to the universities of 16,000 scientists. This did not happen because in two months it turned out that they were supposedly distributed on a design principle. Analog is also the situation here, in my opinion, with regard to the money transferred to the Fund, which will probably be allocated again to specific projects. The question is, who are these projects, who are the beneficiaries of these projects? And I think that together, as a National Assembly, or as people who have ways of getting this information, we should definitely look for it and get it to see how hundreds of millions are distributed in a few weeks, supposedly under the motto and under the decent principle that they are on a project basis, that is to say, are there really projects, who gets them, is there concentration, as doubts continue to grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u295	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u296	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chobanov! I'll start from the back. As far as I understand it, this 30 million has already been allocated to projects for independent artists who are affected by the Kovid crisis. This is even described in the budget. I have attended a number of meetings of the Committee on Culture in which we criticised the Ministry in the previous, in the forty-fourth Parliament, and in the forty-sixth, when there was a committee, and now why it failed to absorb 4 million under this programme. How in two months 30 million have been spent on this program, it's unclear to me and it really needs to be seen. I am absolutely convinced that there is no such thing in this government, but that something happened by chance. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] To Mrs. Petrova. Indeed, the budget is higher than it was, by 100 million. The problem is, you can't see the effect of this. Because it's not enough just to increase it by 100 million, the important thing is to spend that money effectively and to feel it from the people who work at the Ministry and are under the Ministry's hat, and in general from the entire cultural environment. The fact is that six months is hard to tell what results, right, to expect results, but the process we see is not satisfactory. Not a single law in seven months has the Committee of Culture voted, not once. We only vote on an agenda, which says we're listening. We've heard a lot of things. The whole Bulgarian culture passed through this commission, but there is no law. And it is done by laws and by internal regulations. Now I don't know what they were doing there. What we're saying is it's very disturbing not to let the theaters go bankrupt. That's what we say, with an increased budget of 100 million. If that happens, it'll be a paradox. I therefore urge, once again, the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Finance to take action. Solve this problem. It's not super complicated. To Mr. Dilov. Mr. Dilov, unfortunately, it may turn out that you will also rule in a coalition with us, which is already dangerous for the country with these ideas to close down the Ministry of Culture. I think the opposite not only should not the Ministry of Culture be closed, but its function should be extended much more. The problem of the Ministry of Culture is that it is neglected, that it is always at the end of the line, and the culture translated into a slightly more complex language means identity. When we talk about Macedonia and all other things here, we need to know that this is the Ministry of National Identity. And if our national identity is last, then we can leave it where it is right now. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u297	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Before closing the discussion, I just want to read the corrected text of Mrs. Desislava Taneva's proposal, after all, about the transcript. In § 1, art. 1, para. 5 in row 6.2, the number A new row 6.2.4 shall be created: For the increase of the salaries of the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Forest Executive Agency, the Executive Agency, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the State Fund lv. In row 12, t. 3 the number..300 000.. is replaced by.290 700................................................................................................................. We discussed this with Mr. Ivanov. We believe that, in so far as internal displacements are made on these amounts, the proposal is admissible for voting. The House will now decide whether to vote on it. Moreover, it is identical as a character with some other proposals. So if we solve one, we have to solve another. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u298	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let me strongly object to what you just said, as the proposal is not admissible. It is not acceptable because the budget is changing essentially. There is no way to change figures in the budget after a second vote in the Committee on Budget and Finance, and it is figures that have a significant impact on the shifting of major items in the budget. I object to this as President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u299	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Just to be clear, you yourself made such a proposal yesterday to change a number. [[(The reporter Lyubomir Karimanski specified: "This is a technical error. It is visible.]] Yes, I'll take your opinion into account, but I told you what we discussed. We'll think about it one more time. That's why I'm closing the debate on this point. I will make an announcement for parliamentary control: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works in Retirement Grozdan Karadjov will answer one question from MPs Pavlin Krastev, Adlen Shevked, Bajram Bajram and Mukaddes Nalbant. 2. Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska will answer a question from the MP Angel Georgiev. 3. The Minister of Justice in Retirement Nadezhda Yordanova will answer three questions from the MPs Branimir Balachev, Krum Zarkov, and Ivelin Ivanov. 4. The Minister of Health for Retire Asena Serbenova will answer two questions from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Miroslav Ivanov and Radoslav Vassilev. 5. The Minister of Transport and Retirement Communications Nikolay Subev will answer five questions from the MPs Rositsa Kirova, Zornitsa Stratieva, Ivo Ruschev, and Nikolay Drenchev two questions. On the basis of art. 92, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly due to a mission outside the country in the parliamentary control meeting will not participate the Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policies and Minister for Environment and Waters, Borislav Sandov. On the basis of art. 92, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly due to urgent commitments in the parliamentary control meeting will not participate: - Minister of Agriculture in Retirement Ivan Ivanov; - Minister of Interior in Retire Boyko Rashkov. On the basis of art. 92, para. 4 of the subs for lack of respectable reasons of the MP Elena Guncheva is adjourned to the Minister of Health in Retirement Asena Serbenova. I'm taking 30 minutes off. The vote will begin at 16.00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u300	Colleagues, we're continuing the hearing. I'm sorry for the little delay in having to clarify a text here. We are going to vote on the wording of § 1 to § 14. I'm counting on Mr. Karimansky to follow up, too, because it's a lot of votes, so I don't want to miss anything. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Plamen Abrovski, which ended in 199. The Commission does not support the proposal. It starts on page 8 and continues on page 9. Vote 227 MPs: 19 against 159, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. Next proposal again of the MP Plamen Abrovski, which ends in 200. They voted 225 MPs: 21, against 147, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Plamen Abrovski, Zlatomira Mostrova, which ends in 201. All these votes are by § 1, so I don't say every time and paragraph. Vote 226 MPs: 18, against 153, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Plamen Abrovski, ending in 203. They voted 227 MPs: 21, against 151, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Plamen Abrovski, which ends in 204. They voted 227 MPs: for 30, against 147, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. Now you can open to page 18. Proposal of the MPs Desislava Taneva, Maria Belova and Irena Dimova, which ends in 247. Here, the Commission supports the proposal almost entirely without it. 3 (b). So I'm putting the motion to the vote on this. 3 (b). Vote 229 MPs: 78, against 114, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. Next, page 22. Proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs, ending in 256. In a similar way, the Commission supports the other points without point. 4.1. So I'm putting it to the vote. 4.1 in this proposal. They voted 223 MPs: 88, against 117, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to page 24. Proposal of the National Representative Tsveta Galunova, which ends in 258. Please, voting mode. Vote 221 MPs: 45 against 45 abstention 131. Please re-vote. Vote 223 MPs: 51, against 44, abstention 128. The offer is not accepted. Before I put to the vote the version of the Commission under art. One, there was an editorial proposal. Let me remind you, since it was discussed yesterday by the President of the Budget and Finance Committee Lyubomir Karimanski: in 6.2.2. drop the text after structural changes have taken place. In 6.2.3 to drop the text after structural changes have taken place and 10.1 to drop out in an emergency epidemic situation for 6 months. There's been a technical error and instead of a 30 400, it has to be a 30 000, again in 10.1. I put these editorial changes to the vote first. Vote 231 MPs: 161, against 66, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 1, Article 1. 1 in the version of the Commission with the supported and adopted editorial amendments. Vote 230 MPs: for 229, against none, abstention 1. It's a re-vote. Vote 230 MPs: for 230, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. There is a proposal from the MP Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs, which ends at 221. During the discussion a proposal was made by Tsoncho Ganev, respectively Honest Mitev, with identical texts. This text should be replaced by the following text: "To be created in art. 3, para. The 6th sentence is the second sentence: Before making changes to the National Assembly's budget at the expense of the economy, to increase the remuneration of parliamentary employees up to 1 180 thousand. lv. Please, voting mode. Vote 228 MPs: for 227, against 1, no abstentions. [[Applause.]] We move on to Plamen Abrovski's next proposal, ending in 203. Colleagues, everything that we are voting on is not supported, so we are voting on it, and when we get to the Commission, I will inform you accordingly. Vote 226 MPs: 18, against 161, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Please re-vote. Vote 226 MPs: 18, against 158, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. Proposal by the MP Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs, ending in 198. Please, voting mode. They voted 214 MPs: 14 against 153, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Proposal of the MPs Plamen Abrovski and Zlatomira Mostrova, which ends in 201. Please, voting mode. They voted 225 MPs: 16 against 157, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Abrovski, which ends in 203. Please, voting mode. They voted 224 MPs: 32, against 139, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, from now on, there will be votes and I will make them several at a time because they are either an importer or an editor of the Commission, if there are no objections to any particular paragraph. I am voting on paragraphs 2 and 3 by importer, § 4 in the version of the Commission, § 5 by importer. Please, voting mode. Vote 226 MPs: for 226, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 6 on a proposal from the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 222 MPs: for 222, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the following texts: § 6, which shall become § 7 in the version of the Commission, § 7, which shall become § 8 by importer, § 8, which shall become § 9 in the version of the Commission, and § 9, which shall become § 10 by importer. Please, voting mode. Vote 227 MPs: for 226, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 10 and 11, which shall become respectively paragraphs 11 and 12 by importer; § 12, which shall become § 13 by version of the Commission; and § 13, which shall become § 14 by importer. Vote 227 MPs: for 227, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Our last vote: a new § 15 on a proposal from the Commission and § 14, which becomes § 16 in the version of the Commission. [[Reply from MP Petar Chobanov.]] Mr. Chobanov, we voted § 13, which becomes § 14. We are now voting for a new § 15 and § 14, which becomes § 16 in the version of the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] Separately you want? [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, I asked, and if you object, we do it the other way. Cancel the vote. We are voting on the creation of a new § 15 on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 223 MPs: 166 against 55, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Finally, § 14, which becomes § 16 in the version of the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 216 MPs: 160 against 56, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. To ask you not to leave this room, there's a message. And Mr. Ivanov takes over.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u301	Colleagues, before we proceed with the State Budget Act, I will make you an announcement and it is related to the votes already voted by us at the second vote Draft on the National Health Insurance Fund budget. Perhaps it is known to everyone in the Chamber that we have made some mistakes and inaccuracies there. First of all, there are no relevant corrections to the main text regarding the additional proposals adopted in this House, as we have also adopted texts contrary to the Public Finance Act. In view of this, I will make a procedural proposal, taking two decisions of the Constitutional Court, namely the decisions being No 4 of 13 March 2018 in constitutional case No 14 of 2017 and Decision No 7 of 26 March 1998 of the Constitutional Court in constitutional case No 5 of 1998. I will make colleagues, a procedural proposal by which the Chamber may decide whether to re-submit the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund in the Chamber so that these errors made can be corrected. In the two decisions that I have cited to you, one of them, this from 2018, concerns a situation where, when a budget is voted on, it is now acceptable that texts that have been voted on in two readings be re-voted so that it does not conflict with the texts of different budgets. And there, in the reasons of this decision, the following is stated:.. According to the Constitutional Court, the requirement of art. 88, para. 1 of the Constitution for two amendments to the law does not restrict the legislative authority to establish contradictions between its norms and it is supplemented that "outside the mind of the constitutional regulations it is in such assumptions to rely on a new legislative initiative only after a future promulgation of the law', that is to say, when a mistake has been made or there is some discrepancy, to allow further voting on these already mined texts so as not to bring about a situation of promulgation of legal acts which are not legally valid and which contain any contradictions themselves. In the other judgment of the Constitutional Court, which dates back to 1998, the hypothesis is as follows. There was a situation in which a bill was adopted, namely a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, and this text was signed and sent for promulgation, was even issued and decreed to the President. It has not yet been published when the National Assembly was still in session, as it has been found to have made a technical mistake, and although this bill has already been closed, the National Assembly, by voting, has allowed it to be reopened and the errors found by it, are facing, and the Constitutional Court says that by correcting the obvious factual error made in the version of the law, no violation of art. 4 of the Constitution, and on the contrary, it is the basis of the rule of law that requires to avoid the promulgation of the Official Gazette and the entry into force of a legal rule which wrongly states the wording of a welded provision. In this sense, I should also point out that there is really no established procedure by which to remove such vices of already adopted bills. However, the National Assembly is the authority that must not create legal chaos by adopting conflicting legislative texts which also contradict other laws, as in this case. We should have the will to admit that we have made mistakes and, if we have found those that have happened with two additional meetings of the Committee on Budget and Finance, not to commit other bodies or institutions to commit in any way to these errors and we ourselves to find a way to remedy them. The adoption of legal and non-controversial laws is entirely in the interest of society and in the interest of the principle laid down in art. 4, para. 1 of the Constitution, namely the rule of law. And in order to avoid creating dangerous precedents for opening texts already adopted in the second vote, I reiterate that this will be necessary and, if the House so decides, will only be carried out in view of the deficiencies already identified, errors made and outstanding issues in the final text, as well as a contradiction to the final text with the Public Finance Act, as set out in the Budget and Finance Commission Report. Colleagues, is there a need to convene a chairmanship council? [[Noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Iva Miteva.]] Yes, Mrs. Miteva, I'll give you both the floor and Mrs. Atanasova. Is there a need to give a possible extension after that? All right, Mrs. Miteva, come in. Maybe we can bring some clarity.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u302	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will begin with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but they are not relevant to this case. Decision No 4 refers to the State Budget Act, to which many colleagues here are witnesses and we have made this amendment and there, yes, the Constitutional Court with rapporteur, I think it was Rumen Nenkov, said it is possible to go back and reschedule provisions that have been voted twice, but then, when the law has not ended, that is, the final norm, the entry into force was not adopted by the National Assembly. The second decision of 1998. Yes, the law there was closed, but there is a really factual error, as there has been a correction in a text that is repealed and does not exist and not in a text that is operating norm. At the moment in the Rules, I think art. 69, there is a clear procedure for correcting a manifest error at the request of the rapporteur, agreed with the importer, reported to the President. We are not in this procedure of manifest error. Unfortunately, what we adopted yesterday is a lot of adjustments to what Kostadin Kostadinov proposed to do. That is, there are changing the sources of funding are not the ones Mr. Kostadinov gave them, and on top of that the transfers are not the same. Transfers are given not according to the rules of the regulation, here are done, which is proposed, is by the rules of the regulation. Yes, there was a report by the Committee on Budget and Finance to supplement and refine the Law on the Budget of the Casa, but the firm opinion is that this is unacceptable. The final norm has been voted, the law is closed and the law is on its way to the president. We cannot return the Law from the President to say we felt that we had made mistakes. We can do this in a subsequent amendment, with the law of motion, just as today the Commission has gathered and done so. With a proposal in the State Budget Act, one paragraph is made, it is refined with a view to the entry into force of the Law on the Casa and the Budget Act not to overlap. The norms of the Law on the Cashier have entered into force and then they will be changed again with what we will vote on today in the state budget, because in this proposal, which is proposed to reflect correctly the adopted proposal of Mr. Kostadinov, there appear three new lines, that is, we are touching in three new lines, which yesterday we did not vote at all, there appears a fourth in a row, that is, the money is already taken from the reserve, that is, the reserve that has been reduced, in Mr. Kostadinov must again increase the number and hence provide for a 14 million, that is to say, there is no actual error at all. It's about changing and shifting numbers, including texts from numbers, because it proposes dropping some texts, now these texts have to come back to be correct. I believe that the purest option is what the Committee on Budget and Finance has adopted today in the Law on the State Budget for 2022 in this amendment to adopt the corresponding amending paragraph of what we have adopted in the budget of the Casa and thus to manage Parliament to bring the rules as adopted on the proposal of the Member of the National Assembly. And the other, Mr. Chairman, is a dangerous precedent. Then when we've closed the laws and they go to the president, we have to think of something, bring them back, open them, reschedule them and do what we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u303	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. However, before I give the floor to Mrs. Atanasova, I would like to clarify a few things. Indeed, it is precisely in order to avoid dangerous precedents, and I have made the final clarification that if we decide to reopen this bill, it will be for several reasons, because in its final version some texts have not been cleared, in view of the proposed proposal in the Chamber, the necessary corrections have not been made. This, on the one hand. On the other hand, there is, at least in view of the reasons in the Additional Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, that there is a contradiction with another regulatory act, namely the Public Finance Act. And I believe that it is not right for the National Assembly to issue a law which is not legally supported, which within itself has technical, technological errors and which is contrary to another law, and we to send it this law of promulgation. I believe that this is not correct, it is not right and it is not in the public interest. Indeed, there is no procedure settled in such hypotheses, but in the motives of the decisions that I have mentioned to you, it is in the interest of the rule of law that it is the National Assembly to remedy such errors and not to do so with a subsequent legislative initiative. And apart from that, the bill has not yet been presented to me for signature by the Commission, meaning the final text of this bill has not been presented to me, it has not been sent to the Presidency for a decree. And the decisions that I have quoted you say in practice: this from 2018 says that it is not violated when there are such discrepancies that occur after accepted proposals made in a hall or additionally made in a room which has not been included in the report, in these hypotheses is acceptable subsequent voting and this is not contrary to the principle of art. 88 of the Constitution, namely the laws to be adopted after two votes. The second decision which I said yes, indeed there is a factual error, but the very case that the Constitutional Court says that there is no problem to open a law, i.e. in this case I believe that it is applicable by analogy and I believe that it is in the public interest to open this law again, to clear all discrepancies and contradictions with other regulations, and only then to be sent for promulgation. That's my opinion, of course. I am not imposing it, I am making arguments because today I have become very well acquainted with all the adjustments that should be made, and I believe that they fall within the framework of what I am currently putting forward as arguments. Mrs. Atanasova, please express your opinion as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u304	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, Mr. President, when you want a speech, you do it from the parliamentary platform, not from where you are, because you formally made two speeches before and after Mrs. Miteva within five minutes. This was not a response to a procedure in the manner of conduct. Please follow even formal procedures. Secondly, Mr President, I also believe that it will be another relapse of the violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Art. 84 of the Constitution, Mr. President, says that the National Assembly accepts, amends, supplements and cancels the laws. "We are already in a hypothesis in which the National Assembly has adopted the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund. The will of the Chamber was to support Mr. Kostadinov with his proposal to increase the funds for the Fund for the Treatment of Children, as well as to increase the funds for the salaries of the employees in the National Health Insurance Fund. However, this proposal, as you have expressed yourself, has caused a discrepancy in the texts, I quote, even wrote down exactly what you said. Then, Mr President, you or a colleague of yours who was in charge of the meeting had to interrupt it, call on either the Chairman's Council or the Budget Committee to clarify the text by line and transfer, just as the Budget Committee later made the proposal. It is absolutely unacceptable that a law which has already been voted by the plenary, which the referees of the National Assembly are most likely sending to the Presidential Institution, is once again going back to work in plenary, and even more so that it has been declared accepted. In this sense, I believe that it is absolutely unfounded, the proposal will be legally inadmissible, and we should not even put it to the vote. We should move under the legal procedure and under the Law on Legislative Acts to adopt the proposal of the Committee on Budget and Finance, namely the creation of a new paragraph 27 and paragraph 28. The amendment to the NHIF Budget Act is appropriate, in the State Budget Act, these provisions will come into force later, so that in no way is the rule of law that the National Assembly discusses and votes. I am strongly opposed to your approach. Our parliamentary group, if you put it to the vote at all, will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u305	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Just a second, Mr. Tsonev, to answer. I'll give you your word. We are currently discussing, Mrs. Atanasova, a point of order and I am addressing the National Assembly as President of this National Assembly, because we are in one specific hypothesis, and therefore I will give every Member of the National Assembly the opportunity to express its views on this issue, because it will concern all of us in order to make the right decision at this time. I don't want to impose my opinion. [[Desislava Atanasova is coming out of plenary.]] Okay, thank you. You obviously have no desire to listen to me. I am not an expert on budget and finance, and in the plenary sitting held that day at which these texts were proposed and voted, the commitment of the MPs who propose them is to check whether they are legally supported or not. It is the responsibility of the referees and members of the Commission to monitor whether these texts are legally valid or not, whether they follow any changes from their adoption or not. My proposal is made to save this opportunity to send for promulgation a bill which, again, I say, is not legally supported and is contrary to another law. Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u306	Mr. Chairman, I'm taking the word procedurally, and there's no other way in which I can try not to get into this argument. I understand your desire to be correct, and I also understand the wishes of colleagues and Mrs. Miteva and Mrs. Atanasova, but in this case, instead of getting into such disputes, let's try to resolve the matter purely practically because we have two options. I accept that what you say is one possibility. There's a second chance. This is through a change in the State Budget Act to make changes to the NHIF Act. I'll tell you what my argument is. The two small budgets, as the financiers call them, are an integral part of the consolidated fiscal programme of the State Budget Act. So they're an important part of the big budget. Through the big budget can be made changes in the small, back to no. Therefore, more practically, more quickly and at the same time, it is also constitutionally and legally just as much as a procedure, to move towards this change that we have made. This change has a higher legal status than the other two laws and will change the NHIF Act. If it is to be cleared of the text proposed by the Budget Committee, let it be cleared by the referees or by the chairmen of committees, or by which you order, but there is no need now to enter into a dispute, and it is a case-law dispute simply because we do not have time and because both hypotheses, at my discretion, are equally possible, equally, again, to say constitutionally and legally. Let's take advantage of the more direct, faster and easier. That's my offer, and that's so we don't have to get into any unnecessary arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u307	Of course, Mr. Tsonev, I agree with you. We don't need to get into an argument, I just put forward arguments and, accordingly, every MP had the opportunity to express his own. I hope it will not come to a situation in which this bill could potentially be vetoed, but we can come to such a hypothesis. But here everyone will carry their cross from the decision made. Colleagues, this procedural proposal will be put to the vote before we start voting on the next few paragraphs of the State Budget Act, so that there is still some time to think and talk, if necessary. So, Mr. Karimanski, you have the floor to proceed with the State Budget Report................................................................................................... [[Noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u308	Let's vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u309	Can it be consensual for once? Why does it have to be by force?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u310	What power, Mr. Cholakov? I will make an offer to be clean in front of my conscience, let the House decide. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Let the court decide! I believe that this is the right decision and I must do it this way. If the House disagrees, the House will decide. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u311	Now we want to vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u312	Now you want to? Okay, guys. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by me to re-examine the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022 and to remove the technical errors identified by the Committee on Budget and Finance and contradictions with other laws. Please, voting mode. They voted 225 MPs: for 101, against 117, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. There's a request for a re-vote. Revoting, coworkers. Vote 224 MPs: 95 against 120, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. We'll continue with the report. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Moving on to § 15. Proposal of the National Representative Venice Ognyanova Netzova-Angova and a group of MPs ending 249. The Commission supports the proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, don't make me read slowly, like I did one time out of this tribune, and I'm a laughing stock. Right? That's not gonna happen! The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 15, which becomes § 17. 55, at the bottom: Seventeen. The transitional and final provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) in para. 2 the tourist services under the Tourism Act shall be added at the end; (b) in para. 3 words are replaced by a person and finally added a person providing tourist services under the Tourism Act. (c) in para. 5 is finally added to the tourist services under the Tourism Act. (d) in para. 6 Finally, the tourist services under the Tourism Act are added. 2. In § 2: (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 1 the number ss 4 500ss is replaced by s 6 000ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (bb) c. 2 the number sssssssssssss. 9 000sssssssss. is replaced by ssssss.12 (c) c. 3 the number (b) in para. 2 the number sssssssssssss. 9 000sssssssss. is replaced by ssssss.12 (c) in para. 3, p. 2 the number sssssssssssss. 9 000sssssssss. is replaced by ssssss.12 (d) Paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 4 s 15: . (4) Fee reliefs for 2022 under art. 22c and 22d of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals can also be used by reducing the monthly tax base for income from employment after the application of art. 42, para. 3 of the same law as follows: 1. the monthly tax base for July shall be reduced by the sum of the amounts for the January-June months for: a) one minor child of BGN 500. monthly; b) Two minor children of BGN 1000. monthly; c) three and more children aged under age in the amount of BGN 1500. monthly; d) a child with 50 and more than 50 per cent species and a degree of disability of 1000 BGN. monthly; 2. the monthly tax base for October is reduced by the sum of the amounts for July-September for: a) one minor child of BGN 500. monthly; b) Two minor children of BGN 1000. monthly; c) three and more children aged under age in the amount of BGN 1500. monthly; d) a child with 50 and more than 50 per cent species and a degree of disability of 1000 BGN. monthly. (5) For the months October-December 2022 tax reductions shall be used in the calculation of the annual tax base according to art. 49 of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. (6) The worker/worker shall choose once to apply the advance use of tax relief under para. 4 by providing a written declaration to the employer declaring that: 1. for the implementation of each tax relief should fulfil the conditions laid down in art. 22c and 22d of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals; 2. the other parent, respectively the other foster parent, close or relative, will not benefit from an advance reduction for the relevant tax year; 3. the employee/worker will not benefit from the tax benefits with another employer. (7) Where the amount of the monthly tax base for the month of July and October for income from employment relationships determined in accordance with art. 42, para. 3 of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals is lower than the amounts under para. 4 which should reduce the corresponding monthly tax base, the employer by the end of August 2022, respectively November 2022, shall recover 10 percent of the difference of the person and for the income acquired as a maritime person 1 percent of the difference. In this case, the tax payable under art. 42, para. 4 of the Law on personal income taxes is zero. (8) The refunded amount under para. 7 shall be taken by the employer successively from subsequent contributions to the state budget for taxes on income from employment relations of the person or other persons. (9) Article 49 of the Law on personal income taxes shall also apply to the application of para. 4. (10) In the cases of advance taxation under art. 43 and 44 of the Law on Taxes on Natural Persons' Income Tax Reductions under Art. 43 and 44 of the Law on Natural Persons' Income Tax Exemptions. 22c and 22d of the same law may be applied by reducing the amount of advance tax due, provided that the other parent, respectively the other foster parent, a close parent or relative, will not benefit from an advance reduction for the relevant tax year. (11) The reduction under para. 10 of the amount of advance tax due is: 1. for the second quarter of the second quarter up to the amount of advance tax due, but not more than: (a) for one minor child - BGN 300.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • b) for two underage children - BGN 600• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • c) for three and more underage children - 900 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • d) for a child with 50 and more than 50 per cent species and degree of disability - 600 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for the third quarter up to the amount of advance tax due, but not more than: (a) for one minor child - BGN 150.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • b) for two underage children - BGN 300• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • c) for three and more underage children - BGN 450.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • d) for a child with 50 and more than 50 per cent species and degree of disability - 300 BGN. (12) The annual amount of tax relief under art. 22c and 22d of the Law on personal income taxes for 2022 in the cases under para. 10 shall enjoy the submission of an annual tax return under art. 50 of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. (13) Alinea 10 does not apply when: 1. the amount of the advance tax shall be determined and withheld by the payer of the income; 2. the person has income from employment relationships and has applied para. 6. (14) Persons applying art. 43, para. 8 of the Law on personal income taxes, do not apply para. 10? 12. (15) When in violation of the condition under para. 6, p. 2 and 3 or para. 10 tax relief under art. 22c and/or Art. 22d of the Law on personal income taxes has been used in advance by more than one employer and/or by more than one person, each of the persons who have benefited from the advance benefits owes the part of the tax corresponding to the amount of relief used. 3. Paragraph 17 is amended as follows: Seventeen. The funds under art. 1, para. 5, Row 2.9 shall be granted to the state universities as a subsidy for supporting the training over the one formed under art. Reg. 91, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Higher Education on a proposal of the Minister of Education and Science in coordination with the Council of Rectors and National Representative Syndicates. Proposal of the MP Ilin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 15, which becomes § 17, p. 1. Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 15, which becomes § 17, p. 1. Paragraph 16. A proposal has been made by MP Iva Miteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 15, which becomes § 17, p. 3. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that § 16 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 15, which becomes § 17, p. 3. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Vigenin: In the transitional and final provisions, § 16a is created: "Sixteen-sixteen-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. With the entry into force of this Act, the obligations of the beneficiaries of the Municipalities and Budget Organisations shall be incurred for the recovery of unduely paid, overpaid, unduly received or unduly used by them in the grant contracts financed by funds under the Operational Programmes for the 2007-2013 programming period. The managing authorities of the operational programmes shall write off their claims for those amounts. The Commission does not support the proposal. Paragraph 7. Proposal by the National Representative Yordan Tsonev and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be dismissed. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Tsonev, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. (1) For the purposes of planning budgetary measures to assist natural persons, the Minister of Finance or officials authorised by him shall be entitled to access aggregated data on natural persons' income, including income from social assistance, state social security and additional social security, except tax and insurance information within the meaning of art. 72 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. (2) The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Agency for Social Assistance, the National Insurance Institute and the National Health Insurance Fund shall provide for the processing and aggregation of the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency for Individual Data on paid incomes of individuals from social assistance, state social security, additional social security and monthly financial support under the Law on Persons with Disabilities and Personal Assistance under the Personal Aid Act. (3) The provision of individual data for paid income shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Electronic Governance, with the exception of tax and insurance information within the meaning of art. 72 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. (4) The type of data exchanged shall be agreed by the persons under para. 2 with the Minister of Electronic Governance. (5) The Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency or officials authorised by him shall process the received under para. 2 data only for the purposes of their aggregation with natural persons' income data already available in the Agency, providing protection against unfair access. Proposal of the National Representative Kiril Ananiev, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 19 and 20: "Seriously, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. (1) For July and August 2022, the chief authorising officers of the State budget shall bear costs, transfers and payments in the part of the financing up (2) The Ministry of Finance in the determination of the limits under the SEBRA shall monitor the implementation under para. 1. § 20. Changes in the rules of procedure of the authorising officers responsible with a budget may be made after 31 August 2022 Proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Temenuzhka Petkova and Zhecho Stankov, ending 242. The proposal for a new § 19 has been withdrawn. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u314	Until the end, Mr. Karimansky. You can read the proposal for § 18 "What has not been withdrawn and is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u315	The following amendments and additions shall be made to the Transitional and Final Provisions: New paragraphs 18 and 19 are being created.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u316	A new § 18 shall be created and for § 19 withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u317	Okay. .............................................................................. (1) The Power System Security Fund shall compensate the non-bit final customers of electricity in the amount of 80 percent of the difference between the real monthly stock price of the "Day forward" segment of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange and the base price of 150 BGN/ MWh. (2) No compensation shall be paid under para. 1 for customers with prices below the base price of 150 BGN/ MWh. (3) To customers with a price above the base with a smaller amount than the amount of compensation calculated in accordance with para. 1 is paid compensation in a reduced amount so that the effective price for the customer after compensation is not less than 150 BGN/ The Commission We have then § 19. You want me to read it, too?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u318	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u319	Yes, he's withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal and I will therefore read it. New paragraphs with a corresponding number with the following content shall be inserted: seventh of the difference between the real monthly stock price of the "Day forward" segment of the Exchange for the respective month and the base price of 200 BGN/ MWh. (2) No compensation shall be paid under para. 1 for customers with prices below the base price of 200 BGN/ MWh. (3) To customers with a price above the base of less than the amount of compensation calculated in accordance with para. 1 is paid compensation in a reduced amount so that the effective price for the customer after compensation is not less than BGN 200/ MWh. §... (1) The public undertakings in the energy sector with 100 per cent state participation in the capital shall contribute to the Fund. 36b, para. 1, t. 4 under the Energy Act. (2) The amount of the assigned contributions under para. 1 shall be determined by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Energy. (3) The targeted contributions under para. 1 shall be imported within the time limit laid down in the decision of the Council of Ministers determining and recognising the running costs of the activity for tax purposes. Proposal by the MP Lyubomir Karimanski and a group of MPs, which is not supported either. I'm sorry, The Energy Act (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36d, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) To be created t. 9. Nine. target contributions from public undertakings in the energy sector with 100 per cent state participation in the capital, determined by size in a decision of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Energy, which is used to cover expenditure under art. 36b, para. 1, t. 4; (d) (b) in para. 4 after the words............................................................................................... 1, t. The following shall be added to the list: the (c) the creation of para. 5, 6 and 7: . (5) In case the target contributions under para. 1, t. 9 exceed the amount of compensation made after the implementation of the programmes under art. 36b, para. 1, t. 4 for which the Commission is determined by the decision of the Council of Ministers, the remainder shall be used by the Commission for the purposes of price regulation in relation to compensation of costs incurred by the public supplier under art. 93a, para. 1. (6) The amount of the assigned contributions under para. 1, t. 9 shall be determined by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Energy after taking into account the full cost without VAT and the necessary means to implement investments and repairs without VAT, ensuring the long-term operation of production capacities and providing an economically justified rate of return on capital. (7) The targeted contributions under para. 1, t. 9 shall be imported within the time limit laid down in the decision of the Council of Ministers determining and recognising the running costs of the activity for tax purposes. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36z, para. 1 after the words the means under art. 36d, para. 1, t. Article 7 (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall be replaced by the following: 36d, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 9 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u320	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I'm opening a discussion on the texts I've read. Are there any people who want to make a statement, colleagues? Are there any speeches, colleagues? Mr. Sabrutev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a proposal to edit the proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs with No 47-254-04-256. I'll read the whole text along with the editorials and leave you a copy. A new paragraph with the following content shall be established: sc... (1) The Power System Security Fund shall compensate the non-bit final customers of electricity in the amount of 80 percent of the difference between the real monthly stock price of the............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ MWh for the period from 1 June 2022 to 31 December 2022 (2) No compensation shall be paid for non-bit final customers under para. 1 for customers with prices below the base price of 200 BGN/ MWh. (3) For customers with a price exceeding the base of less than the amount of compensation calculated in accordance with para. 1 is paid compensation in a reduced amount so that the effective price of the customer after compensation is not less than BGN 200/ The Commission
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u322	Just a moment, Mr. Sabrutev. He's paying for it. He's not paying for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u323	Sorry, it's my fault.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u324	I ask you to be correct, because this remains on the record and it will be written in the text of the Law if it is adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u325	Thanks again. A new paragraph with the following content shall be established: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 1. Public enterprises in the sector.......................................................................................................... In fact, there is no correction in this paragraph, Mr. Chairman. If you want me to read it, if you want me to miss it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u326	Only where there are adjustments, Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u327	Only where there are adjustments. Okay. . (2) The amount of the assigned contributions under para. 1 shall be determined by the KEWR on a proposal from the Minister of Energy, taking into account the full cost of electricity produced, the necessary means to implement investments and repairs without VAT, ensuring the long-term operation of production capacities and providing an economically justified rate of return on capital. (3) The targeted contributions under para. 1 shall be imported within the time limit set in the KEWRC's decision on a proposal from the Minister of Energy, which shall be determined and recognised as running costs of the activity for tax purposes. In case the base price of 200 BGN per established KEWR methodology/ MWh increased by 20 percent or more, the KEWRC can increase the size of the lower limit on a proposal from the Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u328	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Hey, guys, any lines? Are there any lines, colleagues, to this statement? Mr. Stankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u329	I want procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u330	After we run out of lines, Mr. Atalay. If you'd like to take a line. The procedure in the manner of conduct is after the lines are exhausted. You can pick up a line if you want. Mr. Stankov goes first, then Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u331	Mr. Atalay, I've given Mr. Stankov my word already.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u332	Mr. Chairman, thank you. More like my line wouldn't be to Mr. Sabrutev. I ask you to take into account whether this is an editorial amendment or entirely new texts, because in our opinion it is unacceptable what has been made as a proposal and clarification with much of the paragraphs added by Mr. Sabrutev. I ask that this be checked because it is about business help and not getting up to vote on something that we then have to open afterwards. Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u333	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. That was procedure in principle, not a line. Now he's Professor Gechev, then Mr. Attalay, and I'll give him a chance to get his back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u334	Dear Mr. Chairman! Colleague Sabrutev, you should stress that in this editorial proposal we have made an attempt to balance the state interest and interest of the private business in the Bulgarian economy, because the private business also has to take part of the risk of possible price increases, to take measures to increase efficiency. You should stress that this is an extremely important step of the Bulgarian government, which applies the European attempt to preserve the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy, and we are obliged to support it. But stress that there must be a balance of interests and risk.. can not the public take all the risk. Therefore the proposal, editing up to 200 leva. plus up to BGN 240. in practice to be taken over by the business, after which the state to provide compensation, gives an answer to this balance. And you did not stress at the end that I am saying this for the viewers and for all of us colleagues, we are now paying the price that for years a gold project has been ruined, which would have been paid in two years at the current prices, and is therefore subject to a separate discussion. By forming a new government, MPs should sit down and complete the Bulgarian project, which would bring us billions in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u335	Mr. Kostadinov, we have to follow procedure. Mr. Atalay, I apologize. Here you are, Mr. Atalay, the third line, yes, the doppelganger and then Mr.... Give us a line, we'll hear what you have to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u336	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see that we are very tired, but you should know that such mistakes, as they were made with the Health Insurance Fund, are going to do at the moment the same thing that is happening with the editing on my proposal that has been made in order and accepted. With respect to Mr. Sabrutev, he said yesterday that he was not a secretary to write texts, I see that he is a secretary today and has already written a long enough text, which means that editorial remarks on the proposal of the MPs can be short, precise and clear, and only in the figures. Anything else, what you are doing right now, is of no concern to either Belene, private enterprises or state-owned enterprises. Since I have proposed another February of a bill, if you were so good, Mr. Gechev, to accept this bill and how to secure the funds in the Fund and from private enterprises, from state enterprises, from everything, and today in the budget to determine only compensations or aid to industry, to business, and what business expected. That's why it's my procedural proposal or reply, as you wish, so accept it, I reserve the right to speak. I ask you very much, the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is in line with the proposal of GERB and I do not see Mr. Dobrev because he is absent at the moment. If there's going to be any editing, it's in these texts. Everything else is a sort of interpretation and attempts to join the competition after the finale has passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u337	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. A hole, Mr. Sabrutev, would you like one? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank Professor Gechev and Mr. Atalay for the lines to my speech. Mr. Gechev, you're absolutely right. This editorial proposal that I have made is the result of long discussions with all or almost all parliamentary parties. We've tried to find the formula to help maximize business so that high electricity prices don't affect inflation. However, we have also sought the most just approach for state energy, where the financial resources will actually be taken, which will pay the compensation in question. In the discussion it became clear that under 200 leva. there is no way to offer a threshold because the cost of electricity from state power plants is such or higher. That is, if we offer a price below 200 BGN, it means to automatically oblige the state energy to borrow to pay compensation. About the comment to check whether it is an editing or a major editing that is not admissible. I would like to draw attention to the MPs that this is an extremely large case we are talking about a few billion leva. This is not just one point that we will vote on, one of many in the budget, but we are talking about at least three, four, five billion leva by the end of the year. The scale is serious, so please pay attention. Yeah, the editorials aren't one particular number or one comma, but they're not really that many at all. Perhaps reading the full texts in order to have clarity about the meaning of editorials is something that makes you feel that they are too long. We are once again looking for a balance between the competitiveness of our business, not to push inflation up excessively with high electricity prices, but, on the other hand, not to oblige the state energy to draw loans to pay compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u339	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Mr. Kostadinov has the floor for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u340	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like a 30-minute recess and a call for an urgent Presidency Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u341	At the request of a group, colleagues, rest until 6 pm and informally all group presidents can order to the chairman's office to discuss what Mr. Kostadinov has to tell us. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u342	Colleagues, we are continuing the meeting with a discussion on the so presented paragraphs of the Project. Are there any other statements? For a statement, Mr. Stoinev? Dragomir Stoynev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u343	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My speech, of course, is in the field of energy, because indeed the changes in recent days have been many. Unfortunately, I say really, unfortunately, there have been changes to the ITN, GERB and to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, that is, from now on we have to work on these changes, because what we wanted from the left, unfortunately, did not happen, but that is the reality. But now let's talk to the specific. The Minister of Energy, who, of course, is respected by absolutely everyone, I speak mainly from the coalition, of course we cannot have such claims from the opposition, came and told us that 250 BGN. is the full cost of the mix of state enterprises and I cannot understand now the colleagues from the Change that offer 200 BGN. This is completely unacceptable to me. Perhaps the colleagues from the Change have looked at what the colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are proposing because this is how it works. There is no way when the minister we respect and support this government comes and tells us what the cost is, and we offer another number. The number, colleagues, if we really want not to decapitalise the state enterprises, is BGN 250. BSP "Coalition for Bulgaria" will not support another number over 250 BGN to make it clear to everyone in the hall. This means that over 250 BGN, when the price rises, be it from 400, 500, 600 BGN, the difference from 250 to this is covered. The offer is 80%, okay, but we don't agree to be BGN 200. When the Minister has said 250, we must be consistent. If colleagues from the Change have other motives to come out and say them, but for us the main reasons are these and we will keep us from Coalition for Bulgaria to be these motives. We believe that this measure is necessary. The uncertainty in the state, unfortunately, has become great. Tough months are ahead, and we must be in the help of non-violent consumers in precisely this difficult situation in the coming months, because we really do not know what will happen. That is, by the end of the year, I appeal for clarity to non-bit consumers, and we will now vote on precisely such a proposal. So we from the BSP for Bulgaria are sorry that it did not become what we wanted private producers to be included, but in the end, if there are several weeks of life this parliament, through a change in the Energy Act and they will be included. At this stage, our proposal has not been accepted, which we have drawn up jointly, so I believe that BGN 250. is indeed the real cost of the mix of state-owned enterprises and we will support this proposal. It is a pity that the colleagues of the Change really gave up their own minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u344	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? Mr. Atalay, first line, and Mr. Sabrutev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Stoynev, then you will go back to the stand and say that your proposal is not accepted. Well, there is no way to accept your proposal, you have no consistency. If February, when there was a decision by GERB, if March month, when I proposed a Bill, together with PP you had not rejected it, there would be the methodology how, where and how to collect the funds in the electricity security fund. But then you pretended to be men. You were a big coalition, no one could tell you a good day, and we were concerned about energy and now we are also concerned. Not that I've offered 200 leva. Up, I meant to destroy the electricity plants. On the contrary, but the mix, which is set for non-bit consumers, can the minister come to me to explain whether it is BGN 250.? And who subsidizes non-bit users, where does energy come from? I don't want to enter your social spheres. Social assistance is not through the Social Ministry, but through the Ministry of Energy. I respect you very much. If you compare us, the PPs have joined the DPS, you should know that the state will go, will go and sing and today will be all right, and since you are with them, they are limping. So, I ask you very much, the direction, Mr President, of our proposals must be with concern for the business, for the economy, because the minister, the deputy prime minister yesterday, without any proposals in the budget, comes and says: "Please take care of the economy! There should be concern about energy, there should be no bankruptcy, about state enterprises and from there to do everything possible to reduce inflation. Therefore, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has been concerned since November and December, and we are now continuing in this way. Be assured that we will do what is necessary, and you must get on this wagon, you have nowhere to go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u346	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Sabrutev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u347	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Stoynev, I am extremely sorry to hear your opinion and almost attacking the Change Continue. I regret to hear them because BSP had signed in the Law for amendment and supplemental proposal, which is in the state budget, with a base of 200 leva. A proposal which was subsequently withdrawn. Why 200 levs and not 250? I remind you that I was just the initiator to seek the maximum increase of the lower limit to ensure full provision of the cost of electricity produced by state-owned energy companies. As you well know, I come from a state-owned energy company, and if there's any interest that I'm going to protect, it's going to be state-owned energy. The reason why I finally put in the proposal 200 BGN and not 250 BGN is precisely the talks we made with the many parliamentary parties represented today and yesterday. If you remember, the following comments were made on these conversations: business needs help, business needs these compensations extremely, and they must be as fair as possible for business, but in no way harming state energy. If you recall, I submitted a proposal to the Budget Committee, which actually fulfilled these two conditions. This proposal, which I tabled and noted, was not accepted, including because a representative from BSP did not vote on it, was rejected in the Budget Committee and therefore does not appear in the minutes. My proposal was: anything that is above the fair cost of electricity produced by state energy enterprises in question, we are talking here, including investment programmes, including amortizations, IRR 9,9% high value, anything from what extra generates state energy, to enter the Energy Security Fund and to the stock in the Fund to distribute everything to the business. This was the only mechanism in which we could ensure that state energy would not work at a minus and at the same time business would take absolutely everything from what state energy generated as an extra. Moreover, my proposal included electricity production with guaranteed buying-in by the State. Because, Mr. Stoinev, I recall that we have a lot of productions in which the state has taken the commercial risk and at the same time they generate over-profits. I believe that it is extremely fair when the state has taken the commercial risk, everything that is above the market, above the commercial risk in question, to enter into the Fund and from there to distribute to the business. I'm going back to the topic of why 200 BGN and not 250. We did a lot of calculations before we recorded that value. Mr. Stoynev, at the current today's price of 700 leva. the megawatt hour in the state energy will remain the 200 leva in question. plus an extra 100 leva. This is the difference between those 20% that remain in the country. In other words, the state energy remains 300 BGN. at cost 250. We will only drop below cost if the price of electricity falls below BGN 450. the megawatt hour, which is not expected to happen soon at all, and the very opposite is yet to come months of high consumption when prices will grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u348	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Is there a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u349	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for the lines. First, to Mr. Atalay. Mr. Atalay! He can't hear and we're going to Mr. Sabrutev. Mr. Sabrutev, the minister himself said that 250 leva. is the total cost of the mix. I don't know where your other numbers come from and how did you change your mind from 250 to 200? After all, there is the borrowing resource that will be under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, and the price will rise. There's a crisis, interest rates are rising. I mean, the minister really wanted to be predictable, to be calm. How did you change your mind? Why you need to do this is entirely your responsibility. We at BSP say that what the Minister says that in order not to decapitalise state enterprises, 250 leva. is really the normal price. What Mr Atalay tried to say, of course, was that Mr Atalay proposed a decision to the National Assembly. We were against it because there has to be a bill. A bill was then made to exclude coal, natural gas and biomass. We at BSP disagreed and this is why this bill is not adopted. That's what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u350	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. [[Heckling]] Yeah, yeah, I get it, but there's order. Mr. Ganev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u351	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will try to make my speech extremely brief. Obviously, we are facing a serious problem, obviously today we need to find a solution, and obviously this solution must be among the three proposals available specifically from the perspective of compensations either 150 or 200 base price, over which there is an 80% compensation. Our support for these proposals will be determined by two things. First, accepting the concerns of BSP colleagues that the cost of producers goes up along with the uploading of everything else. Unfortunately, we are in an inflation process, in this global process, and rather as a reasonable one should take the above proposed base price. That is to say that of colleagues from DPS for 200 BGN. And the second important thing, which will determine our vote, is to be bound, to make it clear that this aid, it is quite obvious, huge help of the Bulgarian taxpayer yes, true through state energy, but it still belongs to the Bulgarian taxpayer and to the Bulgarian citizens in general to the Bulgarian businesses, to have a deadline. It can't be infinite, it can't be forever. In this sense, I would ask my colleagues, importers of the proposals, to explain to me: whether and how their proposals contain such a deadline, so that we are calm when we vote, because such huge support cannot be promised indefinitely. There's got to be some point where this has to stop and the businesses have to go on their own alimony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u352	The line is Mr. Sabrutev, then Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ganev, in the editorial amendment that I have made, I have explicitly set a deadline. It's not just how long compensation will be paid, it's how long. If we do not put a deadline, as it is at the moment, on each of these three proposals, which sit as listed in the Report, we risk that the business will not receive compensation until the day it is published in the Official Journal. I therefore explicitly wrote in my proposal from 1 July to 31 December 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u354	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u355	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Apparently, Mr. Sabrutev must be actively involved as secretary of the National Electricity Company for a long time to understand when the laws are written, where deadlines are written and where deadlines are not written. Mr. Ganev, the budget is up to the end of the year. Once this budget is up to the end of the year, it is not necessary to write down how long the aid is. The second part of the Law that we have proposed, come on, not to say: I have proposed, because it will become like Since this provision is not related to the methodology of the way how and how the money will be collected in the Fund, we only give the government the opportunity to be committed to supporting business rather than business to constantly go to their so-called ministry and pray constantly aman-zaman and eat and drink expensive drinks. That's why we're doing this whole thing. I think with everything I've told you, we've covered all your requirements. Colleagues, I do not ask for our proposal exactly how to be the lower or upper limit, whether to be 200, whether to be 201 BGN, or 202 BGN. Let us understand this: if necessary, we will make appropriate adjustments to our proposals in order to be in line with the Law we adopt, and if we decide, we will be in aid of the business. If we don't decide, we'll leave the old system behind and then we'll see what's going on again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u356	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Third line? I won't. Mr. Ganev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u357	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be very brief again. Thanks for the answers. Thank you for Mr. Sabrutev's attitude. In this situation, I can only say that I am glad that the proposals have been made in this order and in this order we will vote on them, because colleagues from GERB will be able, if theirs does not happen to pass, to decide whether to support the latter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u358	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. The word is Mr. Tsonev, after him Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u359	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want with a little chronology to get the debate back from where it started, not because we have a lot of time, but because, looking for a solution, we have to somehow keep the 50th time out of this tribune, maybe for the 50th time I say: the dignity and honor of this institution, where they have sent us people to represent them. Dear colleagues, is it the National Assembly's job to determine the design, type, manner of aid, compensation for business and so on? I've been keeping a close eye on the business post since the other night. At the National Assembly, the Budget Committee, separate parliamentary groups were made portraits. It's made out to be small. Why? Who was supposed to offer this help? [[Heckling]] Executive power. It's her duty, her prerogative. It's all there. He negotiates with the employers' organizations, i.e. the stakeholders, he has experts, he has ministries, he has the Ministry of Finance, he has the Ministry of Energy and so on, he knows and he has the resources, he knows what's going on in the energy sector. The MPs who are sent here, not as experts, but as politicians, must determine kilowatts, megawatts, gigawatts, what comes in, how it comes out, what happens and so on. We must define a design of a measure that is not defined by parliament in any country. Notice, the proposal for amendment and supplement of the State Budget Act arrives, there is not a word in it for measures in this area and MPs start making proposals, start committees to deal with what is definitely not their job, at least because by definition there is no such expertise. If you happen to have one or two colleagues there who have expertise, they've gone through the sector, that's not by definition, it's not a state device. And in the Budget Committee, we need to determine the design of this measure. She's not even there, she's not given up, or gone. Notice, it expires on the 30th, that is, it expires today, which has adopted a measure that the government has taken, the government has made. They don't even say we're stopping it, are we continuing it, another, what? I wasn't going to speak in that direction, it's not to my heart right now to deal with the government in resignation, but understand, read all the publications. Why is the hot potato here with you, with us? Why? Because someone didn't do their job. Since May 16th there have been meetings on this topic with business organizations and finally we have a budget in which there is not a single word. Well, well, is that okay? And we've been fighting here till the last time, 200 to 80, 250 to 100, 150 to I don't know what, but how it's gonna fill, but the fund has no money, but how it's gonna fill, but if it comes from renewables, from that, I don't want to repeat the whole discussion. This had to come in the form in which it is agreed with the business, which is consistent with the financial capabilities of the budget, with the financial capabilities of the energy, of the companies. And if that's where you get the money, if not, where do you get it, how long and in what way? You understand why the National Assembly's rating is always like this? It's not just that we're fighting. It's our job here to argue, sometimes to fight. Because executive power, especially the one that goes away, loved to throw the hot potato here. Yes, but this does not work for anyone. It does not work for the business, not for the executive, but at least for the National Assembly. How are we going to come up with this solution now? Imagine that again, like in the Budget Committee, we don't agree. We don't have enough expertise, we can't take that risk of exposing energy or other arguments. And tomorrow we will wake up here blocked by the business that the MPs irresponsiblely failed to do their job and gave compensation to the business and destroyed the Bulgarian economy. These are some of the headlines I'm currently quoting you. Who needs this? What kind of irresponsibility is this? I don't just know how you take it. I don't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u360	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. For a line, Mr. Sabrutev? Here you go. Second line: Alexander Ivanov. Third line "Standev."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u361	Dear Mr. Tsonev, my line is to you about what has been done and what has not been done by the government. I didn't want to be the one to protect what they did, but we still have to make it very clear what has been done so far. There have been compensations since the first month in which electricity prices went up dramatically. There were compensations each month at a rate that was determined depending on what was the monthly average price of electricity. When electricity was expensive, the compensation was high; when it was not expensive, the compensation was less. What we are trying to do at this moment is for the National Assembly to do its job, by law introducing the need to pay compensation, so that business can have the necessary predictability, so that the minister, who every month, cannot, and you see.. with one vote in parliament, is one minister, then comes another, and by law to determine both the amount of compensation and the income from where the money will come. I'll allow myself in the current line to make a brief statement to Mr. Atalay, since I couldn't get to his backdrop. Mr. Atalay, you really are the more experienced one than I am, the dramatically more experienced one, perhaps the most experienced one in this room, and perhaps as the most experienced one, you should have known that the project proposed by you would actually deprive the business of compensation until the entry into force, namely three days after the publication in the Official Journal of the adopted budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u362	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Mr. Ivanov has the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u363	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Tsonev, colleagues! Mr. Tsonev, I do not agree with you that you said that there was no proposal from the Council of Ministers in this budget to compensate the price of electricity. No, on the contrary, there is a removal of the excise duty, which is 2 BGN. This is the help the government has offered with the budget update. In other ways, however, you are very right. I have so far consulted colleagues who are certainly greater capacities than I in energy, and so far the government and what Mr. Sabrutev said, all solutions for compensation so far, good or bad, I think not good enough, because we see them in the reflection in inflation, were at the Council of Ministers. And you resonate with the question why, on 16 May, as the employers of the Budget Committee said, have not taken a clear step, a correct decision on how to continue this compensation from now on. Yes, it is convenient for the Council of Ministers to throw away the hot potato, and note, with the delay in the introduction of the budget update to the National Assembly, and we in the Budget Committee, without the necessary expertise, without the necessary detailed calculations, to take this decision, which is really waiting for both employers and medium-sized enterprises, even our hairdresser's salon, where you are going to get your hair cut, and they are waiting, because from tomorrow without such a decision they will pay a price on a free market over BGN 700. for tomorrow. So perhaps someone in the Ministry of Finance or in the Council of Ministers liked to take the overprofit of energy companies and distribute it at their discretion. Maybe that's why the Council of Ministers doesn't have a solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u364	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Stoinev for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u365	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Tsonev! Mr. Tsonev, I understand your concern for business, but let's be clear, and don't scare the business will come, it will block us. Excuse me very much, there is no other country in Europe to make such huge expenses with direct payments to the business. One Germany has quite different lines, whether through loans or loans, which support certain strategic enterprises. But there is no such mass distribution of funds anywhere in Europe. And in no way can you say that this government, you know, is damaging business. It's just not true. That they need to be helped, of course, that they need to be helped. It is true, we accept criticism that there were other mechanisms to be considered. But what is the responsibility of business? Did they take the responsibility, for example, not to increase the prices of finished products by taking so much money? Did anyone talk to them to see how they were doing it? Yes, it is important that you must be pressured in every way you give as much money as you can, but ultimately the Bulgarian citizens need to know that this comes from their pocket. And another, ladies and gentlemen! This is not about compensation only of the Bulgarian business. This is about compensation for non-viable consumers. These are kindergartens, cribs, creeds, schools. We can really those people who really need... Municipalities also, of course, fall into this list. So do not only talk about business, because there is a huge part of the Bulgarian population, which will also be supported by these mechanisms. But that the Bulgarian business in no way responded and did not undertake to have any obligations to society is a fact. It is a pity that when the crisis started, we did not make a package that had the responsibility of the state, but also the responsibility of entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u366	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Sabrutev, thank you, first of all, for the lines. Mr. Sabrutev, there were compensations for the fact, even good compensations, according to our business. My question was why they didn't tell us why they didn't give us the law or what was supposed to happen, because you say this should have happened with the law. And because it has to happen by law, who's gonna make this law? That's what I'm talking about. There was supposed to be a draft law of the Council of Ministers, not Mr. Ramadan Atalay's Law. Mr. Ramadan Atalay's law is good, but it reflects his view of our parliamentary group. But it's the executive who has all the information. She's responsible. If you wanted this to happen with a law, there should have been a draft law here about what this compensation would look like. Mr. Ivanov, I don't have a duplicate because I think we're thinking in the same direction. Mr. Stoinev, and who should talk to the business and ask him if he has reflected the compensation in the prices? The National Assembly? Who? Executive power. You're coming to my thesis again. In my speech, I had only one thesis that what we are trying to do is the work of the Council of Ministers, the executive. How she does it is her business. You say the compensations were great. So, they had to come here and say the compensations so far were great, we had conversations, did not affect the price, in production, so, honourable Members, we offer you another mechanism, or we offer you to stop the compensations, or we offer you to do this by law, as Mr. Sabrutev suggests, to be filled, as Mr. Atalay suggests, this bank, from which we will be taken from the compensations, how to fill it. It's none of our business, it's my thesis. And I would swallow it, and I wouldn't take the floor today if in the last 48 hours on this institution, our heads didn't get so completely undeserved criticism. It's none of our business, I'm telling the business! It is the work of the Council of Ministers and the executive. They didn't do their job, and now, if the job doesn't work out, go to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u368	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. The next statement is Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u369	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Why are we even having this conversation and making these proposals in the Budget Act? Because we have an emergency situation at the cost of electricity. We said that at the budget update last year around the same time. Even then, we said that the budget should be buffered, that funds should be placed. We were told to mind our own business. Since then, business has been getting compensation per piece. The average price that the business has paid so far is between 240 and 250 BGN. after the compensation. The average price paid by the European business, not the one with preferential conditions, but the other, after the compensation is BGN 204. So our business pays 20% and a few percent more, despite the compensations that have been paid so far. But we're not talking about these compensations, we're talking about that business has to have some security from now on. It cannot be for a month to threaten with strikes, to pray to the Minister of Finance, to ask for meetings with the Prime Minister, and ultimately because of this uncertainty to include in the prices of his products a higher price than he ultimately receives, simply because he does not know whether there will be, will there be compensation, how long these compensations will continue. To understand the size of the problem, I will tell you that before the price increase started, the business was cumulatively paying for electricity around 2 billion. lv. He's currently paying between 10 billion and 15 billion. lv. I mean, he used to pay $2 billion, now he's gonna pay between $10 billion and $15 billion. lv. depending on what the prices are. If the price is around 600 BGN, it will pay 10 billion if the price is 900 BGN. For example, as we expect winter to be, it will pay 17 billion. Where's that money going? Those billions of extra billions take them for the most part not to say all the state power, state power producers take these huge funds, the two billion that paid the business until last year, and the additional 8, 10, 12 billion according to what the price is. What do we suggest? That money that the state enterprises took because of the conjuncture, that money should be partially reimbursed to the business. And I say partly because in the case where the business paid 12 billion. Lev, he'll get back eight. He won't get $12 billion. lv. at a price of electricity 700 BGN We argue on this proposal not so much that we argue, I think for everyone in this room it is clear that there should be compensation for the business, otherwise... And today is an interesting day, because the compensation voted by the Council of Ministers ends now at 7:00. At 12:00 p.m. tonight, that is, there are compensations for another five hours. There's no business compensation in five hours. For tomorrow the price of business is over 700 leva. at a megawatt hour. Over £700. At that price. Here, 12 billion pays the business at this price per year for electricity instead of paying two. If we do not make this decision today, if it does not come into force in the fastest possible way, goods and services will become double and triple more expensive, inflation will be double and triple higher, some organisations, including public organisations, will not endure. Those were already mentioned.. social institutions, municipalities, hospitals and so on. We've been trying to find some kind of compromise for three days. We fight on many other topics, we fight fiercely here in this case we try to talk, even people we don't like because of some political differences, we try to talk to each other. In my proposal, I have proposed a vote, which must first be put to the vote, Mr. President, in the order in which they have received a compensation of 150 BGN. up, i.e. the business pays 150 BGN. And the top pays 80%. In order to reach some compromise, all of us should unite around some compensation, however, in order to have security in the business, I am making a procedural proposal, Mr. Chairman, an editorial amendment in my proposal: in para. 1 the number The number "150" in para. 1, 2 and 3 to become [[The National Representative Delyan Dobrev and the President shall be specified.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u370	Can you just say that again?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u371	In para. 1 the number to become.100...................................................................................................................... 1, 2 and 3 the number
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u372	Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u373	What does that mean, Mr. Chairman? It is in sync with what Mr. Drago Stoynev said that the state energy and what the Minister of Energy says on average has a cost of about 250 BGN. On average, all the companies, both expensive and cheap, and those producing expensive electricity, and those producing cheap electricity. That is, if this proposal of mine is accepted, the entire plenary room for BGN 250 should be satisfied. It's a minimum price business will pay. And the compensation above this price will be 100% up to the average daily price achieved on the exchange. So that doesn't mean that everyone pays 250. Because a consumer who is a daily user, he doesn't pay the average price per day, but pays the average price per day, but you have energyists among you a higher price than that average. Let's say a small enterprise will pay 300 leva. Or 280 BGN, or 320 BGN So my proposal is for such a correction. I think it should satisfy all sides. And Mr. Chairman, to the Commission I withdrew § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u375	I would like to withdraw my resignation, that is, to put § 19 to the vote as well. Because I withdrew it again in order to reach a compromise in the Commission, to unite around texts. However, the texts proposed by Mr. Sabrutev were not supported by the Commission. And since we do not have a mechanism to fill the Energy Security Fund, this text of § 19 is necessary. If you'll just allow me one sentence. I forgot to say something very important to colleagues who are not energyists. Our proposal is irrelevant to the revenue and expenditure of the budget. This needs to be made clear to everyone. Thus, the state money will not give to support business, municipalities, kindergartens and any other churches and mosques. That money will be from the $12 billion paid by the business. BGN, of which we will bring a part back to the business so that it can continue to exist. Thank you, colleagues. I hope you'll support my proposal with the editing I made. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u376	Thank you. Mr. Dobrev, you've distracted me from searching for texts, and you've spoken for almost three minutes more, but it's not fatal. Are there any lines to Mr. Dobrev's statement? First Drago Stoynev, then Mrs. Mihaylova and Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u377	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from Coalition for Bulgaria are satisfied with this proposal that the price increases to 250 BGN because really this way the state energy will not be decapitalized. It is important that all sufferers of this crisis are known, especially those who really need help that provide public, those who provide social services. This is where social institutions and schools come in. Of course, it is also important that municipalities are fully compensated. So I believe that after so many debates and that of course you agreed to BSP's proposal to be 250 up the threshold, I believe that here we can find a solution. The decision has been reached once you accept it and offer it, we will support it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u378	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mrs. Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u379	Dear Mr. Chairman! I, too, will use the line to make an editorial proposal on behalf of the AGE group. Since there have indeed been dozens of talks between all the parliamentary groups in the last few days, which is due to the fact that the Finance Commission has not been able to unite around any of the existing texts, and given that from today's Q4 data in France, electricity is nearly 1000 euros per megawatt hour, Q4, for which it is not known, are the months of October, November, December, given that this will affect Bulgaria as early as August, given that in fact, after about a few hours, non-vibe end customers will remain unsubsided, and listening to all of the groups in what direction they think, we from the AGE think that we should support the first submitted proposal on which I am speaking, however, we believe that the consensus in the Chamber is rather over 200 BGN. for megawatt hour base price. So I am making a concrete proposal in § 18 of this commentary to change the figure..150.......................................................... in para......................................................................................................................................................................................... 1, para. 2 and para. 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u380	Mr. Sabrutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u381	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank everyone for their constructive dialogue. Indeed, this may be one of the few topics that make us unite, not separate. Mr. Dobrev, I would like to congratulate you on giving up your original proposal of 150 leva. on a megawatt- an hour for a floor, because that really wasn't the right decision. I will personally support your proposal, which you have given with the adjusted values. I'd like to propose an editorial amendment, an addition to Mr. Dobrev's proposal. I'm just not sure if Mr. Chairman is listening so he can account for himself. In § 19 at the end of the sentence, the following sentence shall be added after taxation: In taking into account the full cost of electricity produced, the necessary means to carry out investments and repairs ensuring the long-term operation of the production capacity providing an economically justified rate of return on capital. The idea, Mr. Dobrev, is not to come a minister to decide that the cost of electricity is BGN 60. instead of 130 or similar cases, in the sense that all are actually included in the cost. The second editorial amendment, which I would like to introduce, is to be added in § 18 at the end of the sentence for the period from 1 July 2022 to 31 December 2022. My arguments again are to catch the period in which the budget will not be voted, but to give the business security that they will take the necessary compensation from July 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u382	Thank you. Let me just ask you to give me these suggestions, because the second one I wrote down, but the first one, we were distracted here by other adjustments. In general, to tell you the great editing was received in the Chamber of these proposals. Just to ask: does that mean you're withdrawing the other one, which is almost unacceptable?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u383	Mr. Chairman, I would like to withdraw it after the first vote on the number of entry is passed by GERB. If it's accepted, I'll pull mine.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u384	Got it. It's voted on Mr. Dobrev's proposal first anyway. So I expect you to give me the text of the first proposal you made. I figured it out by the deadline. Mr. Dobrev, what were you for?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u385	It's for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u386	You have the floor for the back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u387	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am very happy that there is some political dialogue in plenary. Unfortunately, perhaps at the end of this parliament, but it is good that after six or seven months of confrontation we started looking for solutions. It better happen more often, so that the next parliament starts with this and not finish. I think the editorials Mr. Sabrutev proposes, we would support them. Unlike the first to read, these are reasonable and we would support them. I am glad that the hall is uniting around the values that I have proposed - BGN 250. for a floor, for a minimum value with 100% compensation subsequently. I also thank Mr. Stoynev I accepted his proposal. He subsequently cared about all social institutions, municipalities, churches, mosques. It is not just business, Mr. Stoynev from these high prices suffers almost everyone except the domestic consumer, who is still protected from the high prices of electricity. What's the other line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u388	It wasn't a line. Mrs. Mihailova suggested not 250, but 200.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u389	Yes, Mrs. Mihaylova, I apologize. Your offer for a floor of 200 leva. plus 80% compensation is also acceptable. It would have resulted in almost the same result for both state-owned enterprises in terms of their costs and business in terms of the price they would have paid. My initial proposal was not with 100% compensation, but with 80% of the minimum price 150 BGN, that is, your proposal would also result in almost the same result. For the record, shall I read § 19, because it is not read?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u390	Yeah, read § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u391	For the record, Mr. Chairman, to my procedure to withdraw the withdrawal of § 19.. I will read it: "Seriously, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. (1) Public undertakings within the meaning of art. 2, para. 1 of the Public Enterprises Act in the sector................................................................................................ 36b, para. 1, t. 4 of the Energy Act. (2) The amount of the assigned contributions under para. 1 shall be determined by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Energy. (3) The targeted contributions under para. 1 shall be imported within the time limit laid down in the decision of the Council of Ministers determining and recognising the current costs of the activity for tax purposes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u392	I just wonder if, since so far, the debate has been on the first part, to vote on these proposals in two parts, we should vote on two separate votes. Still, I think it's more correct in this situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u393	Yes, of course, Mr. Chairman. Just to clarify: § 18 is for expenditure, and § 19 is for revenue.. It makes sense to vote separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u394	The last statement at the moment is at least Mr. Atalay's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u395	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To try to draw attention to all that is happening in this House right now. We were under the impression that it was going on an animal market. Mr. Chairman, what Mr. Delyan Dobrev proposes for § 19, you do not need to take it as an editorial note, because it is in my proposal. Read it and you will see the paragraphs precisely and clearly. Why am I telling you this? Because if you accept the editorials of Mr. Delyan Dobrev, you should also accept that farmhand of Mr. Sabrutev, which is against the laws, the adoption of the laws in this Chamber. Do you understand me, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u396	Can you repeat that, since...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u397	If you stop texting...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u398	I have to tell you, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u399	Mrs. Ninova should come here instead of texting her. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Dobrev's editing for § 19 is not necessary to edit because it is in my proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u400	I heard that, but I thought you were putting forward new proposals under this paragraph. No, really?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u401	It's not a new offer. Plain and simple, as I see it now, the hall is gearing up to reach the ultimate goal. The ultimate goal, colleagues, is that the Council of Ministers and the Ministry did not do so, the National Assembly to do so. Let's give the state some peace of mind to make sure the business gets the compensation; make sure the energy doesn't go bankrupt. This is written in my proposal well, in everyone's proposal. I can even tell you that 200 leva. And at 80, which Mrs. Iskra Mihailova proposes as an editorial, I accept them as editing, even though they are like my proposal, they will not vote for DPS. Don't worry about it. And now the question is, what are we doing? Why suddenly we jumped from 200 to 250 leva.? That's what I want to make clear. Because it's 250 leva. The minister said it was the cost that was charged to all energy companies for the mix, which is normal.. can be accepted 250 BGN. But I can't figure out after 250, why does it have to be 100%? I'll tell you. Colleagues, at 100%, if we accept 100%, it should only be for the synagogue, for mosques, for kindergartens, for schools, for municipalities where there is no primacy. The other day, the Minister of Energy told us all - colleagues, listen, this is very serious: Business has so far charged 330 BGN. energy on its production, which sells us. I don't mind business, but I don't want business to win on the back of the state, on the back of the taxpayer. I don't want those with green energy who take preferential prices, then profit from the benefits that they receive. I would like to say to you that those who have green energy, where they receive preferential prices, and then receive State aid, and we will consider this provision in the Energy Act which has been submitted to the Commission. We don't mind £250. If it is, we will support BGN 250. What you're offering, and we're editing it, and we're offering it. If you want to think about whether to be 100% or 80. I will accept, from the Department of Rights and Freedoms and we will accept 80, and 100%, because if this government does not tell the business once again, once it receives the aid, not to charge them on its production to raise inflation, we will be involved in making a certain circle of people rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u402	Is there a line to Mr. Atali? If there's at least one line, we'll have time to elaborate some things here. [[Happy tidings.]] There's no lines, there's no other words like that. Something about a procedure in the way that I'm texting? [[laughs, laughs.]] In the meantime, I'd like to ask Mr. Karimansky about the additional NHIF report. [[Reference from the rapporteur Lyubomir Karimanski aside from the microphones.]] I'm just asking that then we'll continue with him to know, colleagues. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u403	Mr. Chairman, I'm doing a procedure in the manner of conduct. I think it's quite unbecoming, while such a doy as Mr. Atalay gives a speech for the benefit of energy, you texting each other is absolutely unworthy. Please, I'm making you a note. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u404	Well, you're being very rude, Mr. Karimansky. [[Laughter]] Don't let a man lay a finger on you. You bite off your hand. [[Reply.]] I couldn't quite hear. But the text was linked to these proposals again. It's just these editorial amendments... We close the discussion and move on to the vote. Please take your seats. First, I put to the vote the text of § 15 which becomes § 17 in the version of the Commission "page 56 and 57. Vote 221 MPs: for 221, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Now I'm putting it to the vote... [[Loud noise.]] Colleagues, it's quite noisy. I don't think you're discussing the texts. Let's focus. I now put to the vote the rejection of § 16 on a proposal from the Commission - page 59. That is, if you want to reject the paragraph as the Commission wants, you are voting for it. Vote 220 MPs: 217 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Now, one by one, we're going to take them. I shall put to the vote the name of the section of the European Commission's translation and final provisions. Vote 217 MPs: for 217, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. A proposal from MP Christian Vigenin ends at 217. Please, voting mode. They voted 214 MPs: 106, against 83, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote. Vote 205 MPs: 114, against 74, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 17, which shall become § 18 in the version of the Commission. Vote 215 MPs: for 215, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The next vote is the creation of new § 19 and § 20 on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 222 MPs: 157 against 64, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. Please re-vote. Vote 219 MPs: 152, against 64, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We move on to the proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Temenuzhka Petkova and Zhecho Stankov, which ends in 242. This is page 62 and page 63. And now very carefully, fellow Members, that there have been a lot of proposals that are important. First, we will vote on proposals for editorial changes and, finally, we will vote on the whole text. The first proposal for editing reads: "In § 18, para. It's going to be 1 "80" and it's going to be 100. In § 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 They voted 225 MPs: 203, against 2, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] You're in a bit of a hurry, fellow Members, with the applause, because we're barely at the editing office. We still have to accept it. It's a re-vote. They voted 224 MPs: 203 against 1, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. In this situation, I will not put to the vote Mrs. Mihailova's version and we will proceed to Mr. Sabrutev's other editorial proposal, again under § 18. I would just like to remind you that his proposal is as follows: "In § 18, para. 1 to be added for the period from 1 July 2022 to 31 December 2022. Separately, we will vote on both editorials because they are not directly related. I put to the vote this proposal to add the period. Vote 226 MPs: for 225, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Sabrutev's second proposal is in para. 2 to § 19. This is on the next page, page 63. I will read his proposal so that you know exactly what we are voting on: After the text in para. 2 shall be commad and the following text shall be added: taking into account the full cost of electricity produced, the necessary means to carry out investments and repairs without VAT, ensuring the long-term operation of production capacities and providing an economically justified rate of return on capital. They voted 223 MPs: 223, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. And now we vote on the whole proposal of the three MPs, ending with No 242 in the signature, with the editorials being made. They're two new paragraphs. They won't be 18 and 19 anymore, but it's a matter of numbering. They voted 223 MPs: 223, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. This means that Mr. Sabrutev practically, as he said, withdrew his editorial proposal. We must vote on the next proposal, yes, they are virtually identical. However, it seems to me that once we have accepted this, let them advise me, I think I cannot put it to the vote, because in practice the same texts with other figures are already. Yeah, yeah, so I shouldn't put it to the vote, right? Because it's going to be a contradiction in the lyrics. So this proposal, yes, it is practically... It is best if you withdraw it to tell you, however, the proposal [[The National Representative Ramadan Atalay wants the floor.]] Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u405	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our goal was to help people through the economy, but not to introduce communism because with 250 leva. And 100% already means the business will pay 250 leva. current. That's what we did. Congratulations! Since my proposal, many of these texts have already entered, only the difference from 250 to 100, I withdraw my proposal, but with the clear awareness that what we have adopted at the moment is only for the benefit of business. Thank you. [[Reply: "Not true! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u406	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. And there remained the proposal of the MPs Karimanski, Miteva, Chorbanov and Vasileva, which ends at 240. Shall we vote on it, Mr. Karimansky? Check once again page 64. There isn't one, is there? I think there's no contradiction here. It is not supported anyway, but I am still voting on it. The signature ends at 240. They voted 225 MPs: 22, against 25, abstention 178. The offer is not accepted. Which is why we finished the basic texts, but you know we still have some work to do. I give the floor now to Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u407	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We've reached § 32 by importer. And here is the place to report that the Commission has prepared an additional report, as it has been debated today. The Commission proposes to create a new § 27: "The Bible says: In the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022 (prom., D.V., No. ...) in art. 1, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In row 1.1.3, in column 3, the number 2. In row 1.1.3.8 in column 3, the number 3. In row 1.1.3.8.1, column 3 after the word "Safety', the following entry is added: "Safety' is added as well as for the introduction of vaccines against COVID-19 for health-insured persons. 4. In row 1.1.4, in column 3, the number "seventy-seventy-six' is replaced by the number "six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. 5. In row 1.1.4.4, in column 3, the number 6. In row 1.3: (a) in column 3, the number (b) create order 1.3.1: "1.3.1." including medical care provided in accordance with the rules on the coordination of social security systems in relation to treatment of persons up to 18 years of age up to 14 000,0 This is the report's proposal, and there is another renumbering. The Commission will then propose § 32 to finally become § 28 and in it: 1. to create a new t. 2: "2." Paragraph 27 shall enter into force on 10 July 2022 and shall apply from 10 July 2022. 2. Point 2 becomes t. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u408	Colleagues, we heard, I don't know, did we read these under § 32, we're not down?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u409	No, I can keep going if you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u410	I suggest you read them too. Some of them will fall by themselves, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u411	Here we should say by § 32 there is a proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Temenuzhka Petkova and Zhecho Stankov, which is not supported: The following amendments shall be made in the transitional and final provisions: Paragraph 32 provides that the new Paragraph 18 and 19 shall enter into force from 1 July 2022 and shall apply from 1 July 2022. There is a proposal by Venice Angova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs not supported by the Commission. The new paragraphs that follow, respectively, on compensation for domestic final customers of electricity and the contribution of public undertakings from the sector.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the CPNS: .............................................................. 1 shall enter into force as from 1 January 2023 The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Tsonev, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u412	It's backed up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u413	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 27. And by the additional report, it becomes § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 The law shall enter into force from 1 July 2022, with the exception of: 1. § 16, § 21, t. 9 concerning § 15e, para. 1, t. 2, para. 2, 3 and 6 and § 24, t. 2 which enter into force within three days of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal. 2. § 24, t. 1 which shall enter into force from 1 January 2023. 3. Paragraphs 24, t.1 and 31a, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2023 Or as it's renumbered after the finals.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u414	The Commission requested 15 minutes to make final clarification. Let's not make a last-minute mistake, so I'm taking 15 minutes off and we'll see you again at 7:55.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u415	And the chairman's council.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u416	And the chairman's council. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u417	Colleagues, before we start voting, after all the texts have been presented, I am opening a discussion on them if there are willing speakers. Mr. Chobanov is willing to speak. Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u418	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! We are at the last paragraph when the budget comes into force. This is a new budget, which thanks to the dialogue thanks to the discussions, thanks to the understanding that we have met with colleagues in the Budget Committee, we have been able to really try to do so. From there you have seen that when such a more reasonable base is given and in this House we have met a consensus of 230 supporters of § 1 of the budget, which does not really happen often. I think this is how we should work on the path of dialogue, on the path of consensus, on the way to finding new solutions even if the price is to change the budget and make it practically new. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u419	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u420	Dear Mr. Chairman, today you cannot complain that we are carrying out all your orders.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u421	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u422	Since there is not yet the Conference of Presidents in the Chamber, and I think it should be here and it belongs right here when we adopt the budget. You're the only one here, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u423	I'll tell them, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u424	Thank you, I'm counting on it. I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have indeed been dialogues with whom we have also worked in the Committee on Budget and Finance. Thank you to Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev, thank you to the Ministry of Finance, thank you to all those who made efforts to make this budget a good update by the end of the year so that it can benefit the business, for the benefit of the people and for the benefit of Bulgaria, I hope, by the end of 2022. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u425	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Mr. Sabrutev for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be extremely brief as we are at the end of the day. Mr. Karimansky, to the list of people to thank, we should add your name. [[Applause.]] The truth is, you've done a great job and united everyone. Thank you. [[Noise, lines and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u427	Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u428	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! We all showed that today we can determine the day of Bulgarian parliamentaryism. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and shouts: "Bravo! "]] Not that we've become the same. Every political power has its philosophy, its ideas. Of course, we are maintaining our criticism of this budget, but I would like to tell you that today, as my colleagues have mentioned before me, we have indeed shown that, by consensus, we can achieve much more with understanding than any of our political powers. Today we have made decisions, measures and funding for activities that benefit business and people, supported a number of public sectors such as education, health, culture, science, agriculture, internal order and security, religion, I will probably miss out on anything we have today with consensus. Let us work from here on in the name of Bulgarian citizens. We have difficult weeks and months ahead of us, which are linked to social problems, political problems, economic problems, but when we work like this, we and hopefully those after us will succeed. Let's work for the prosperity of our country. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u429	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Any other speeches? I won't. Now I think, in the spirit of consensus, the absence of about 10 people will not be fatal, so let us start with the votes. It is a pity that the leaders could not attend this discussion, but perhaps the same consensus prevails in that room. [[Noise, lines and laughter.]] I put to the vote Mr. Karimanski's proposal, which is under the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act. Just to say that this paragraph, which was presented as a new § 27, will become § 32, but this will be completed shortly. The Commission had to do the renumbering. They voted 201 MPs: 200 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. There is one proposal that belongs to the Members of the National Assembly Dobrev, Petkova and Stankov - 242, but we have already voted the time limits in the proposal itself in § 18 and § 19. [[Reply: "We withdraw it! "]] Thank you. Then there is a proposal from Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs, which ends in 256, but as far as I understand it, it has also been withdrawn. [[Reply: "We withdraw it! "]] Thank you. And the last § 33 after the renumbering. Here we'll do it with three votes because of the renumbering. ................................................ The law shall enter into force from 1 July 2022, with the exception of: 1. § 17, § 25, et seq. 9 concerning § 15e, para. 1, t. 2, para. 2, 3 and 6 and § 28, t. 2 which enter into force within 3 days of the promulgation of the Law in the Official Journal. These are the same paragraphs, but they're already numbered. Please, voting mode. 200 MPs voted: 200, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. "2." § 28, t. 1 and § 30 "These are the lawyers, the added § 30, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2023." Please, voting mode. Vote 194 MPs: 179 against 15, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. This is NHIF, which shall enter into force on 10 July 2022. Please, voting mode. Vote 198 MPs: for 197, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. That was the last vote on the budget. [[Applause.]] Mr. Vasilev has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u430	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to thank the team of the Ministry of Finance and all MPs that in a very difficult political environment we managed to do what is most important for Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u431	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, in the manner of conduct. Then Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u432	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! We deservedly thanked Mr. Karimanski and the entire Budget Committee for this inhumane work they had to do in a very short period of time. We have thanked everyone else, but we always miss thanking some people who stand here on top and only who hasn't been there does not know what a huge effort it has taken............................and physical, the budget vote, which is extremely complicated as watching, such as voting. [[shows the chair's stand]] Thanks for Mr. Vigenin and for all the colleagues who led the meetings, especially in this extremely severe, nervous, horrible environment in which they were still able to keep the peace in the Chamber, to keep the good tone, to maintain fellowship and good attitude. [[Applause]] I think that every person's efforts should be appreciated and he should receive at least one gratitude, so that we thank you, colleagues! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u433	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. I'm touched. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u434	Sorry, just a minute. I forgot to thank you and I most sincerely apologize for for for for forgetting about this thing, and thank you to my entire team in the Budget and Finance Committee. Thank you. [[Applause.]] I apologize, thank the stenographers, because they had the patience, and I'm really glad that the stenographers from now on will be appreciated a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-30.u435	It sounded a little like it was the last time. With this, we have exhausted the planned agenda for today. Next meeting tomorrow at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
