ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Please take your seats. Please register. Guys, in ten minutes, we're gonna... [[Replyes:.]] Yeah. Show the results in groups. In 10 minutes, we'll try to reconvene a quorum and open the meeting today. Discovered at 9:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u2	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please register. There are 126 MPs registered. We have a quorum. I'm opening today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, before we begin with the items on the agenda, one message. On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 81 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we withdraw the draft Law on amendment and supplement of the Law on support for farmers on July 20, 2022. The application was submitted to the Ministry of Justice of the National Assembly by Zornitsa Stratieva and Zarko Marinov. We start with point one, which was fixed for today, namely: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW TO HELP EARTH PRODUCERS. Importer Plamen Abrovski on 19 July 2022 A report came in from the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Mr. Abrovsky, are you going to introduce him?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u3	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u4	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry on a Draft Law amending the Agricultural Assistance Act, No 47-254-01-103, submitted by the National Representative Plamen Abrovski on 19 July 2022. The Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry held a meeting on 20 July 2022 discussing the quoted bill. Elena Ivanova Director of the Rural Development Directorate took part in the meeting at the Ministry of Agriculture. The bill was presented by the MP Plamen Abrovski. The changes relate to the new measure established by Regulation (EU) 2022/1033 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 June 2022 amending Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 as regards a special measure providing exceptional temporary support by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) in response to the effects of the Russian invasion in Ukraine. The measure enables Member States to make use of the available funds under the existing rural development programmes up to 5% of the total EAFRD contribution to 2021 for the year 2022 to support the crisis-related farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises. Support should focus on the most affected beneficiaries and Member States may lay down eligibility conditions and, where appropriate, objective and non-discriminatory selection criteria. Support shall take the form of a lump sum paid by 15 October 2023 on the basis of support applications to be approved by 31 March 2023. The maximum amount of support shall not exceed EUR 15 000 per farmer and EUR 100 000 per small and medium-sized enterprises. In this regard, the Draft Law establishes a legal basis for issuing a regulation on the implementation of the new measure and regulates its application through the Integrated Administration and Control System. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the decree on its implementation and of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of art. 73, para. A public discussion of the bill was also held at the meeting. The Ministry of Agriculture stated that the bill would give the Ministry the legal opportunity to develop the regulatory act allowing financial support of nearly 33 million. Euros. In this regard, they called for support of the Bill and its urgent adoption. People's representative Plamen Abrovski stressed that given the importance of the proposed changes, their urgent nature and the instability of the political situation, he would propose that the two votes of the bill be held in a plenary session. All Members of the National Assembly agreed that the draft should be supported and dealt with as quickly as possible in plenary. Following the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forests with 18 votes for......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u6	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Would you like to take an importer's opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u7	Mr. Chairman, the report itself, in order not to waste time, is also the opinion of an importer. Colleagues, I have two words for the bill and why it is so urgent. At the moment, the European Union is giving us the opportunity to remove 5% of the budget of the Rural Development Programme. At present, unfortunately, there is also a risk of losing funds in implementing the Rural Development Programme. If we do not pass and create this legal basis, the possibility that these funds will be lost will be extremely great, moreover, that in view of the unstable political situation, it is not known whether and how the National Assembly will be able to adopt such a legal basis. So my request to you is to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u8	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. I'm opening a discussion, colleagues. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mr. Panev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I will read a first part of the reasons for the draft, namely: The support provided by the Member States should contribute to food security or deal with market imbalances, assist farmers engaged in at least one of the following activities pursuing those objectives. The objectives are: circular economy; nutrients management; resource efficiency; environmental and climate-friendly production methods. For me, for 15 years, the big problem of EU funds absorption, including agriculture, is that much more is viewed on the quantity than on the quality, hence the effectiveness of EU funds seems to be falling. It is very important to me when we provide such aid to farmers, then to have some accountability for the objectives achieved, which were set in the Bill, respectively, in the European Union subsidy programme. This is what I am losing for the moment and I think that if we want Bulgaria to prosper and move forward and the absorption of EU funds to really serve the objectives of cohesion and to reach at least the European average level of development, such accountability is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u10	Thank you, Mr. Panev. Are there any lines, colleagues, to that statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Stratieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u11	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Abrovski! This bill is extremely important, it concerns the Rural Development Programme and its funding from the European Union. However, funding is not known whether there will be, as we have two regulations that are not transposed and harmonised with our legislation regarding the groups of farmers. These two regulations require the presence of groups of farmers and organisations of farmers in national legislation. There are none in our law. Both regulations provide for support to these groups, however, there is no such possibility. This is the same Agricultural Aid Act, so yesterday I proposed a change in the Draft Law proposed by Mr. Abrovski. The European Commission is very fond of them, the European Parliament is also very fond of them, this is important matter in rural development policy. We are in danger of a criminal procedure by the European Commission if this is not harmonised in the appropriate way and puts the financing of support measures at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. Are there any lines, coworkers? I can't see. Any other comments? Here you go, mate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, we are in favour of this proposal, although we, as opposition, should oppose these decisions of the European Union to be adopted. We believe that these are important things, and no matter where this money goes, they will be in the Bulgarian economy. So, we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u14	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Do you have lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Taneva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am making this statement by which I would like to say that the GERB-SDS parliamentary group will support the current bill. I am also making this statement because colleagues before me who took the floor made speeches that do not generally correspond to the text of the proposed bill and its essence. I would therefore like to explain that this is about and why it is important that this law be adopted, why I would, if there were no requests from the House for proposals between first and second reading, why I would express the will to adopt it at second reading. We are in a political situation where it is not clear whether there will be a regular cabinet, when, will the National Assembly continue, or will its term of office be terminated. At the same time, there is a Commission decision allowing us to programme an exceptional measure in the Rural Development Programme up to 5% of its budget, by which we can support farmers in relation to the consequences of the military conflict. At the same time, this measure has been written as one of the key measures in the so-called action plan to prevent the loss of European funds for this year. The budget, the indicative measure to be obtained under this exceptional measure, is around 33 million. EUR total. Or the current draft bill of colleague Abrovski should be adopted for two main reasons: we should implement this measure in the action plan and not allow a loss of European funds, something that has not happened since the distant 2007 - 2008. Secondly, of course and certainly, this budget should be allocated according to needs in a way in which the Ministry of Agriculture programmed it for extraordinary support for Bulgarian farmers. That's the essence of the bill. In the name of responsibility for the agricultural sector, we will not make a proposal between first and second readings in an attempt to pass this bill today at second reading, so that the Ministry of Agriculture has the prospect of immediately starting programming this measure and, of course, of being paid out in order to prevent a loss of funds, a hypothesis in which the State has not fallen since 2007. Therefore, the responsible decision for me is definitely to support this bill. I say again, this is the essence, my colleague Abrovski can also make a speech, we had such a debate yesterday at the extraordinary meeting, so it was extraordinary, and this is his essence, which is why I decided to take the floor, because the first two speeches were practically outside the context of the proposed bill. Dear Members of Parliament, once again I say that the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, led by these two motives, for us the responsible solution is support of the Bill at first reading, we will not make proposals between first and second readings to motivate its adoption at second reading and the Ministry of Agriculture to be able to start programming immediately because, in order for there to be no loss of funds, this also requires appropriate deadlines of payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Are you here for a line, Mr. Mitev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u17	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Taneva, what responsibility are you talking about, what farmers do you care about, given that you have tried once again to fail the beginning of the National Assembly by not registering? You were outside the room and you came in after we were able to gather 126. What responsibility?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u18	Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u19	You have absolutely no interest in helping anyone. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u20	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any other lines, colleagues? For the coat, Mrs. Taneva, would you like the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear fellow Member of the European Commission We are continuing the Change, your reply was not at all material to the speech that was made. A political party and the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS clearly expressed its political will. You cannot expect to want to continue to rule and the opposition to make your quorum. Those are basic rules. Never, when we were in government, have we relied on the opposition to make the quorum for plenary sessions. And I'll tell you one more thing, you've introduced new standards in politics, you don't have a majority, you want to leave from the cabinet. Well, it was never like that. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Mr. Abrovsky, you have a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I did not intend to speak, but as I fear that the debate of purely practically can go towards purely political, I would like to ask you not to debate the political aspects of what separates us, but to vote on what unites us at the moment, namely the well-being of our farmers, of the people who feed us. Because yesterday, I was extremely happy with the fact that, despite our political differences, all our colleagues, the whole Commission, unanimously voted on the proposal. Why? Because it is positive and useful for the Bulgarian people. Regarding the first two speeches. I'll turn to Mr. Panev, accountability, Mr. Panev, there is. For this there is an entire institution called the State Fund....................................................................................................... And with regard to Mrs. Stratieva's speech, I honestly do not understand it, because legal grounds for producer groups and organisations exist at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u24	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. For a line, Mrs. Stratieva? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u25	Mr. Abrovski, I do not know how you will understand this, as I suspect that with this bill, we are financing a particular group of producers, not all who have a direct participation in agriculture. For me it is extremely unpleasant the entire vote on this bill on the day of its adoption.. emergency committee, because there was no quorum on the next day, immediately an emergency committee, not even 72 hours, which are the requirements of the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly's activities for the vote. The urgency of this law, I do not see what the obstacle was to vote on it next week in order to submit adequate proposals so that we get all the money in maximum value, not only that we will be cut off, that we have not implemented European legislation in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. Vladislav Panev, come in for a second line. Mr. Panev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u27	In a nutshell, as the debate has really spilled. Yes, there may be accountability in the Fund of Agriculture, the question is whether the objectives are being met, for 15 years back I am talking. In my opinion, the objectives laid down in this law are difficult to say that they have been fulfilled if they are not fulfilled for 15 years yet 100 will we wait for...............................I do not know.........................................I do not know.............................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u28	Thank you, Mr. Panev. For the third line, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u29	Dear Mr. Abrovski, I ask you in the duplicate, however, to clarify to the colleagues of the "Democratic Bulgaria" because we were obviously in different committees yesterday that the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture was that these funds would be distributed according to the needs of all sectors of agriculture. There has never been a question of the Commission either by the Members of the National Assembly or by the Ministry of Agriculture that these funds will be used for specific sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. For the doppelganger, Mr. Abrovsky, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Belova took my opportunity to make a complete duplicate, but I will address Mrs. Stratieva. Read these documents, Mrs. Stratieva! You're reading the law! Read the regulations! It says absolutely everything in there, and you won't have to make comments and lines about things you don't understand. I know that farmers are not targeting the voters of "Democratic Bulgaria." But at least be kind enough to start reading not only forest regulations and forestry legislation, but also agricultural legislation. Agriculture feeds you not the forest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u32	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Are there any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Yahova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a change to the Agricultural Aid Act. Honourable Members, the analysis of the sector................................................ has shown that this year the costs of farmers have increased by 1 billion. 600 million. lv. And from 23 March until now, the European Commission has applied rules of measures to accumulate all European and national funds to support farmers in the European Union. One of these options is precisely what we are going to vote on today, the transfer of 5% of the budget that has not been used under the Rural Development Programme. Bulgaria has already started support from the EU crisis fund. Support for the temporary measure is also forthcoming. So the really responsible solution is today to support this proposal by Plamen Abrovski and the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. This will enable the Ministry of Agriculture to take appropriate action to develop guidelines and support farmers in a timely manner. We will also support the adoption of a second reading of the Bill. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Yahova. Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. Mrs. Mehmedova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, we first alarmed the movement for rights and freedoms with a declaration of risk of food crisis. "The Movement for Rights and Freedoms" made its proposals in the update of the budget for another 300 million for the sector.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. At the moment, the European Commission is giving all member states an opportunity and I think that everyone in this House should support this bill at first and second reading so that this resource can really reach the Bulgarian farmers and be able to save our native production. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Mehmedova. Are there any lines, coworkers? I won't. Are you speaking, Mrs. Belova? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to take the floor again in the form of a speech. This debate goes to the fact that the opposition today is lawyers of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and I wonder why the ruling majority has not agreed its positions and does not realise the importance of adopting this law. Colleagues, we have some funds that should be used to support the various sectors of agriculture. The first measure financed pig farming and poultry farming, which were the most disadvantaged sectors. These additional funds will finance the other sectors. The Ministry of Agriculture has started programming according to the needs of each industry.. how much can be helped, and after this programme has been prepared, these funds will be allocated accordingly. I can't really understand the concerns of my colleagues from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. What kind of accountability are we talking about when it's all clear? In the State Fund...... Paying agency, anyone who wants to know which branch has received how much can do it. And why are we getting into some debates, completely meaningless, when we all realize that if we don't pass this law, we don't give the Ministry of Agriculture a chance to do our job, these funds will be lost and farmers will suffer again, because there will always be candidates for MPs, but the way we have driven it, maybe we will not have candidates for farmers soon. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Are there lines? Zornitsa Stratieva, come in, Mrs. Stratieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u39	Mrs. Belova, I think that the debates are not very pointless because, in seven months' work on this committee, we were able to look at only three bills and the most urgent one that we had to proceed with was this law to assist farmers, and I think it is very pressing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. Are there any other lines, colleagues? Mrs. Taneva, come in. Mrs. Mehmedova for the third. Colleagues, a very interesting discussion is going on with not very long speeches, but by different MPs. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u41	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs! Ms. Stratieva, we explained that yes, it is urgent because of the fact that we have time limits, and that is in the action plan of the ruling majority not to lose funds to your majority, and the opposition protects it. Yes, it is urgent, I understand what you're saying, but yes, it is urgent. It is the ruling majority in the face of the Ministry of Agriculture this measure is in the action plan to prevent loss of funds of 33 million. Euros. And today in this House, the opposition is defending the action plan of the ruling majority. Well, that's the kind of government we never had!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. But the line should have been to Mrs. Bellova. Mrs. Mehmedova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Belova, please explain to the Chamber why this bill is so important, as Mrs. Taneva said, in the action plan it is. Just explain why there is such an urgency for this bill to be adopted. I hope the House understands and really supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Mehmedova. Mrs. Belova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u45	Dear Mrs. Stratieva, you're absolutely right here. We have been waiting seven months for the ruling majority to present us with bills to consider to the Commission. It's the fact that it didn't happen. However, I believe that this should not be a reply to the opposition's speech. This shows your management ability. About Mrs. Mehmedova's line. Just because of what Mrs. Stratieva said that we do not know for seven months, we are not working on a bill, there is nothing tabled by the cabinet concerning agriculture, we are faced with the situation in the last days of this National Assembly to adopt bills so that farmers are not harmed because of the inaction of the executive, Mrs. Mehmedova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Ivan Manev for speech. Then Mr. Marinov and Rosen Koshurkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, we continue the Change. I want to say that we will also support this law, and that does not mean [[noise and lines]] That...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u48	Colleagues, please be quiet, please. We can't hear the speaker from the stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u49	Just because we're not up to defending until now doesn't mean we won't support him. I'm sure once the debate is over, we'll all vote for, just don't know why we're doing this debate at all. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u50	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. Mr. Marinov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, frankly, I am once again surprised at how something purely operational is making a political debate that is devoid of any meaning. Is there anyone in this room who is opposed to having the Ministry's legal basis not to lose $33 million? Euros? Is there a guy like that in the gym? If there is, raise your hand, let's see who it is. Colleagues from GERB-SDS, I understand that politics should be done in this House, but expert opinions should be expressed in the Commission. Yesterday the Commission passed for exactly five minutes, how I didn't hear anyone there say anything. Today, when you saw six seven cameras here, you raced to say who was more than who. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I am very sorry, but there is something more essential and more essential is that we do our job, because the sector is one of the most affected against the backdrop of the crisis that we have in Europe, in the world and in our country. If we do not take concrete measures, and this is part of them, the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture is absolutely clear, I do not see why we are commenting on how the Ministry of Agriculture has not done its job. On the contrary, it's done its job, and we have to do it ourselves. And since yesterday at the Commission we were all unanimous for five minutes, today we have been having a conversation for about 40 minutes about the same thing. I just don't get it! Let's finish this thing, let's go to the vote and mind our own business. [[Heckling]] Mrs. Stratieva, yesterday we had a conversation in which I explained to you, we had a long time. What you are saying is true, but it is not the subject of this debate and what we are commenting on right now. Let's not get into these conversations. Something that needs to happen today in two readings to ensure that farmers are safe?? What more do we have to say than that? European funds! What are we talking about?! Colleagues, please, let's take this more seriously. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u52	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. For the line Mr. Chobanov, Rosen Koshurkov and Mrs. Belova the third. Mr. Chobanov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Marinov, yes, it is normal to have a political debate because it is a political body. It is normal for the Ministry of Agriculture to have done its job, but it is not. It is normal that the whole procedure, which really seems difficult with all coordination, with public discussions and so on, but when it comes to such important matter as we are debating at the moment, is normal to have power and to have it do its job and our attention to present a law that has passed the relevant discussions, has passed through the interested groups and then comes here to parliament. Now you're in the middle of talking about the government. It turns out you're gonna have a lot of cabinet candidates, but there's no power. Power does not have the authorities, the rulers, behave as opposition on the one hand, submit laws through a member of parliament, on the other hand, the group of "Keep the Change" says: "But why this debate is being held, but we will support........................... the typical opposition behavior. What do we have in parliament now? We have no power, we have several opposition groups, we have the desire and intention of once again someone to do the work of the Council of Ministers, as he is not doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Rosen Turtle for a second line. Mr. Abrovsky, would you like a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u55	For a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u56	You've already spoken. Mrs. Belova, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u57	Dear Mr. Marinov, I completely agree with what you have said, I just don't understand why you are addressing the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, provided that there have been two speeches in the Commission since yesterday that were on GERB-SDS. Since yesterday, we are as a mediator of the ruling majority to understand that this law is so important to farmers, and to try to explain to the government who are in coalition, how they should agree to support this law, and I cannot understand why your accusation is against us, given that we have been trying to tell you since yesterday: gather together, you are managing, accept this law, the opposition with two hands will support you. I don't understand, Mr. Marinov, why us. Your line was supposed to be to the Democratic Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Mr. Turtle, would you like another third line? [[Relations from the National Representative Rosen Koshurkov.]] For a statement? Mrs. Yahova, for the third line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Marinov, this is not a pointless dispute or conversation, this is a political debate because yesterday the Ministry of Agriculture reported 450 million. BGN, provided for support for sensitive sectors in Bulgarian agriculture, of which 300 million are on an opposition proposal, on a proposal from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. And today, the decision will also be made with support from the opposition. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Yahova. For the coat, Mr. Marinov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, colleagues replicating, I will start, of course, with Mr. Chobanov, he is as always constructive, sufficiently respected by me. You're right, Mr. Chobanov, but don't shift the conversation into making government, we don't make government in this room today, there's time for this debate, we'll talk about what we do and how we do it. What exactly the Ministry of Agriculture hasn't finished I of your line personally couldn't understand. [[Relations from the National Representative Petar Chobanov.]] That's your opinion, you're entitled to it, I say the Ministry of Agriculture has done its job perfectly. The debate is not pointless, Mrs. Yahova, it is extremely meaningful, it is pointless are the arguments and motives that speak here, which once again turn a really important and operational conversation into a political talk. Yes, because the tribune is political and a political debate should be held here. That's true. But in no case should we, when we open a topic, so I think, at least, in the case of a sectoral one, get up and tell each other all the merit, because by your logic, the DPS offered an additional 300 million to support the sector, you voted for, we also voted for, and the whole room voted for, but it is not the subject right now to say who did what, and what are we doing right now, in addition to this 300 million? Mrs. Belova, I'm not focusing on your parliamentary group. I said it from a point of view that the activity, when you see the cameras, is actually impressive. But it's normal, you're politicians with experience, it's quite normal, I understand completely. Let's move forward, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u62	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. Mr. Turtle, you have a say in this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, from a purely technical solution which gives legal basis for the Ministry of Agriculture to have another additional 60 million. BGN, we turned it on do not know the political or what, it is no longer a political debate. Colleagues, please, especially those related to agriculture. A little further down the program there's a veterinary aid law. If we keep up this pace, we'll never get to him. So, I would like to say on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "We are continuing the Change": we support this bill and we will support it. Let us also vote at second reading right now in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u64	Thank you, Mr. Turtle. Are there any lines, coworkers? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Honourable Members, I am putting to the first vote the bill amending the Law on support for farmers with importer Plamen Abrovski, submitted on 19 July 2022. They voted 203 MPs: for 199, they won't mind, they abstentioned 4. That's how the offer is accepted. For the procedure Mr. Abrovsky, come in. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please the law which has just been adopted at first reading amending the Law on Supporting Farmers to be subject to a second vote in this plenary sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u65	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. A reverse opinion? Is there anyone who disagrees, colleagues? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 202 MPs: 198, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Abrovsky, would you like to introduce us to the text of the Second Voting Bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u66	THE LAW OF THE amending the Agricultural Support Act § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9a, t. 2 the words, and 39b § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9b, t. 3 the words the order for the measure under art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the measures referred to in Article 39b (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 39b and 39c. Final provision § 3. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u67	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. I'm opening the discussion. Does anyone have a wish to speak? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote the name of the bill, § 1, § 2, the name of the division and § 3 as read by Mr. Abrovski and by importer. Vote 202 MPs: 200, none, abstention 2. The proposal is adopted and the Second Voting Bill is adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE APRIL 6, 2022 IN THE SOPHIA AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN TO TERMINATE THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN FOR THE RESTRUCTURING AND PROTECTION OF THE DEVELOPMENTS REFERRED TO IN THE SOPHIA OF 19 APRIL 1994 Importer of the Council of Ministers. A report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation has come in. Mr. Dimitrov, we're listening. Introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u68	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement signed in Sofia on 6 April 2022 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Sweden on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments, signed in Sofia on 19 April 1994, No 47-202-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2022. At its meeting held on 6 July 2022, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement signed on 6 April 2022 in Sofia between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Sweden on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments signed in Sofia on 19 April 1994. The bill was presented by Dimitar Danchev "Deputy Minister of Economy and Industry." Since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Commission has launched an initiative to end bilateral investment treaties. The Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that arbitration clauses in international treaties for the protection of foreign investment between Member States are contrary to art. Art. 267, Art. 344 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on ratification of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union was adopted by the 44th National Assembly on 7 October 2020. Several Member States, among which Sweden, do not sign the multilateral agreement, but are willing to proceed to bilateral termination of their investment contracts in the event that there are such contracts with the other Member States. In August 2020, the technical work on the preparation of a draft Agreement between Bulgaria and Sweden to terminate the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments, signed in Sofia on 19 April 1994. The proposed Agreement also terminates Article 12 (3) of the Treaty, which extends the protection of investments made before the date of termination of the Treaty for a subsequent period of time. Thus, Article 12 shall not give rise to any legal effect following the entry into force of the Agreement. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:.................................................................................................. On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, the Draft for ratification of the Agreement signed on 6 April 2022 in Sofia between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Sweden on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments, signed in Sofia on 19 April 1994, No 47 202 02 18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u69	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I'm opening the discussion, colleagues. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Statements? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Honourable Members, I put to the first vote the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement signed in Sofia on 6 April 2022 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Sweden on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments signed in Sofia on 19 April 1994. They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. For the procedure Mr. Dimitrov, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making a proposal Draft for ratification of the Agreement signed in Sofia on 6 April 2022 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Sweden on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments, signed in Sofia on 19 April 1994, No 47 202 02 18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2022, to be adopted on a second vote as no proposals for amendment and supplement of the Bill were made during the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u71	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor to introduce us to the text of the Second Voting Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u72	Thank you. THE LAW OF THE ratifying the Agreement signed in Sofia on 6 April 2022 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Sweden on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments signed in Sofia on 19 April 1994. A single member. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Sweden on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments, signed in Sofia on 19 April 1994.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u73	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? [[Reply by MP Desislava Trifonova.]] Declaration? Come in for a statement, Mrs. Trifonova. [[Reply from.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u74	I am glad that our colleagues at the PP are watching when we are in the gym and when we are not. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For months we from GERB-SDZ together with our leader Mr. Boyko Borisov fought the memorandum with Gemcorp signed on 23 March this year [[Applause and laughter]] To be terminated, and you have done everything you can to cover up another fraud of your government. With this memorandum you tried to give all our energy to an offshore company with vague capital and controversial names. Small modular reactors for the nuclear power plant "Belene" and the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and the Green deal, our coal capacities and the Recovery and Sustainability Plan are a small part of what is at stake in it. You have betrayed our national interests and our national security in the energy of oligarchs, gentlemen ruling. First of all, you did not want us to form a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances regarding the signing of this memorandum. We fought for two months to establish such a commission. And to make sure that the truth doesn't come out, you've put your chairman in charge of the Commission. You have tried several times to sabotage the Commission's activities. First Kiril Petkov and Asen Vassilev did not respond to the National Assembly's requests for documents and data. We don't know who suggested Gemcorp or how she was chosen, because they haven't responded to us to this day. Then the President of the Commission on Tuesday at the meeting refused to put to the vote after hearing the President of the SANS, the proposal of GERB-SDS Commission to come up with an immediate proposal to the National Assembly to oblige Kiril Petkov to end this corruption scheme. You have broken all the rules, gentlemen in charge! Let's make it clear that one.................................................................................... [[GERB SDS lines]] The report was received at the Council of Ministers on the 24th. He was hiding a billion-dollar deal in his office. The dollar. That's right! [[Laughter]] He also lied to us about the SANS checks and proof of that is his own response to the National Assembly, with which he did not provide any order to the SANS with a request for verification of any company. But suddenly yesterday on Ilinden you had an epiphany. [[Replys: "Really? "]] Yes! Surprisingly for us you have received enlightenment and decided that you will terminate the Memorandum with Gemcorp. [[Noise and lines.]] I thought it was some kind of ultra-incredible investment that promised bright bees.! Why did you take away our bright future, gentlemen in charge?! Why?! [[Applause and banging on the banks from GERB-SDS.]] What do Kiril Petkov and Assen Vassilev not want to know to end this memorandum today?! The SANS report and the hearing of the President of the National Assembly very clearly showed that the concerns of our parliamentary group of GERB SDS on national security were not only justified. Things are so much worse than what we imagined. Suddenly, however, MPs from "Democratic Bulgaria" were worried. [[(Voices: ……]] Yes! But, colleagues from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, why did you keep quiet during the temporary committee? [[Reply from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev: "This is not true! "]] You didn't say a word during the temporary committee Tuesday. [[Noise and lines.]] Why did you not support GERB-SDS' proposal to end the memorandum on Tuesday when it was due to be put to the vote? It's not enough, but since yesterday you've taken credit for the termination of this memorandum. Aren't you ashamed?! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] We from GERB-SDS had a fight in this topic and it was you to act stately. You didn't! You were only scared when we gave the documents to the Chairman of the DANS for the offshores. It wasn't until then that you reacted. You've told a lot of lies about Gemcorp. In short, I'll try to list just a few of them. Kiril Petkov lied that he had commissioned a preliminary check for Gemcorp regarding whether there was any Russian capital. That's a fact. Kiril Petkov lied that he had also re-checked the DANS. The fact of his answers was established. Kiril Petkov hid that there was a report by the DANS that he received on April 20th. He hid it on national television in an interview on 8 June in front of national media. Kiril Petkov lied that in the slightest doubt about the company, the government would only end this memorandum. From April until today, you have taken no action. Kiril Petkov also lied that it was a letter of intent. No, it's not a letter of intent, because there are arbitration clauses in it. There are no arbitration clauses in any letter of intent, and there is no bilateral act. There's a two-sided act here. Asen Vassilev lied that Gemcorp was offered to him by the American Embassy. He also lied about Gemcorp being offered by the British Embassy. They both disproved him. Finally, on the first day when you announced the memorandum, perhaps with the idea of covering up who the real owner is, you lied about who you signed a memorandum with. And you lied to me! What don't we know about Gemcorp and what should we find out? Who brought Gemcorp to the Minister of Energy? Who and why gave our energy to an offshore company? Who took commissions for this memorandum? Why has no procedure for choosing a company within the Ministry of Energy been followed? Why wasn't the company's capital checked? Why is this memorandum literally concluded in 12 days? Why does it mention all of our energy? The chain of offshore Gemcorp Holdings Limited, registered 2016. This is a certificate from Jersey Financial Services. [[shows document]] This is the company with which the memorandum is actually signed. There are two other offshore companies in this company, gentlemen. One is registered to the British Virgin Islands and the other is registered to the Caymans. To the Caymans! It's called Gemcorp Partners LP again. This offshore, by the way, is in Gemcorp's consolidated financial statements in the UK, and if you did a simple check, you would have found out about it. The company of the Caymans is also registered in 2016. But you know what? To this day, there is no manager. These are documents from the Cayman Islands registry. [[Shows the document. Applause by GERB-SDS.]] In the end, we're not gonna stop here. On Friday, we expect Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, Finance Minister Asen Vassilev and Energy Minister to come and explain their actions and who brought Gemcorp to Bulgaria? Which oligarch? Someone has to take responsibility for their actions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u75	Colleagues, we are going to examine the second reading of the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Bulgaria and the Government of Sweden on the termination of a contract between the two governments, signed on 19 April 1994 in Sofia. Is there a statement on the bill? I can't see. I put to a second vote the Law on ratification of the signed on 6 April 2022 Sofia, an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Sweden on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments, signed in Sofia on 19 April 1994. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The bill was passed at second reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ANIMAL TREATMENT. Report from the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Waters Mr. Abrovski, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote on the admission to the meeting of the National Assembly of Mr. Momchil Nankov Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Mr. Antonio Radoev an expert from the Bulgarian National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u77	Thank you. Colleagues, please vote on admission to the Chamber. They voted 93 MPs: 91 against 2 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Abrovsky, you have the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act, No 47-254-01-52, submitted by the National Representative Plamen Abrovski and the National Representative Rosen Koshurkov on 13 May 2022. The Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry held a meeting on 8 June 2022 discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the Commission took part from the Ministry of Agriculture: Dr. Vanya Ruseva, State Expert at the Directorate of the Agricultural Chains, Edita Hussein-Tomova, Chief Expert at the Directorate of Life Economy and Diana Fileva, Head of Legal Consult at the Directorate of the European Union Legal Activities and Law and in vitro diagnostic veterinary resources, Emil Krastev, Executive Director of the Directorate of Justice, Dr. Krasimir Zlatkov, Director of the Directorate of Veterinary Products and Invitro Diagnostic Veterinary Services, Emil Krastev, Executive Director of the Directorate of Laws, and Dr. Silvia Peeva, Head of the Department of Animal Care and Animal Welfare. There were also representatives of the Four Paws Foundation. For participation in the public discussion of the bill on the basis of art. 73, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were invited representatives of all organizations that provided written opinions. The Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry has received two bills to amend and supplement the Animal Health Act, on the basis of art. 77, para. 1 sentence, four of the subspns, the Commission examined the current bill on its own, which was presented by the MP Plamen Abrovski. He explained that the main changes are related to the synchronization of Bulgarian legislation with the entry into force of Regulation 2019/6 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on veterinary medicinal products and repealing Directive 2001/82/EC, which provides for a number of changes in the legal regulation of public relations relating to veterinary medicinal products. In this regard, the following changes are proposed: The term "veterinary medicinal products' is replaced by "veterinary medicinal products'. The existing licensing regimes for use, production, wholesale and retail trade with the IMP shall be replaced respectively by unlimited marketing, production, wholesale and retail authorisations. The licensing regimes of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products and immunological veterinary medicinal products become registration. The procedures for issuing or refusing authorisation, suspension, revocation or modification of their conditions shall be laid down. The marketing authorisations for VLP will be valid only in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, under certain circumstances the Executive Director of BABX will be able to issue a marketing authorisation for a limited market valid for a period of five years or a marketing authorisation in exceptional circumstances with a validity of one year. A ban on use and marketing has been entered for separate lots of VLPs. A procedure for the registration of persons carrying out the production, import, storage or distribution of active substances used as source raw materials in the VLP shall be introduced and the conditions and procedures for making such registrations are laid down. The rules on the authorisation of parallel trade within the European Union and on retail trade with VLPs are laid down. The system for blocking and withdrawing from the market of VLPs which do not meet the quality requirements and the system for collection and disposal of waste from VLPs and the pharmacovigilance system are regulated. The arrangements for the submission of information, procedures for the processing of alerts and the evaluation of the results relating to the pharmacovigilance system will be laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Agriculture. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has been designated as a competent authority for the control of VLP. As regards the entry into force of Commission Implementing Regulation 2021/520 of 24 March 2021 laying down rules for the application of Regulation 2016/429 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the traceability of certain kept terrestrial animals, it is intended that the owners or users of establishments with agricultural animals should submit notifications of events occurring with animals in establishments under art. 137, para. 1 to the registered veterinarian serving the establishment concerned, only electronically through the Integrated Information System of BABBH. Notifications of occurrence of animal events at the premises of the premises of the personal holdings by electronic means via the Integrated Information System of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences or in writing. The relevant administrative criminal provisions for infringements under the Law shall be introduced. The transitional and final provisions provide for the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to issue professionally unlimited production, wholesale, retail and use permits issued in the old order. Until authorisation is granted, licences will remain effective. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Decree on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on In the performance of art. 73, para. 2 of the Ministry of Agriculture submitted an opinion that the bill is not subject to notification. The opinion also makes specific proposals for editorials of some of the texts. In their opinions, the Association "Camps and Activism for Animals in the Industry" and the "Four Paws" Foundation insist that provisions governing the introduction of a legal ban on breeding and/or breeding and/or killing of animals for the purpose of obtaining valuable hides in the Republic of Bulgaria should be included in the Bill. BABH supported the bill and called for its swift adoption given the danger of opening a criminal procedure against Bulgaria. In conclusion, the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forests with 8 votes in favour and 3 votes in abstention proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Veterinary Activity Act, No 47-254-01-52, submitted by the National Representative Plamen Abrovski and the National Representative Rosen Kostorkov on 13 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u79	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion on the submitted bill. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My comment will once again be in the way of proceeding this bill. Parallel to it was introduced another ZID of this same law "The Law on Veterinary Treatment. Unfortunately, our bill has not been reviewed by this committee, could not be united and will have to reopen this bill if it is adopted in the current form, for which we will have to further burden the work of the National Assembly for the fact that Mr. President of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry does not wish to examine two bills with the same title but with complementary topics on the same subject matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u81	Thank you. Are there lines? Mr. Abrovsky, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Stratieva, as well as the committee itself, I have explained that there are legal obstacles to discuss the two laws on the same day. And there's absolutely no problem that we're going to look at it at a later stage. Read these documents and these rules were, Mrs. Stratieva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u83	Do you want a hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u84	Mr. Abrovsky, this is absolute discrimination. I'm very good at reading the rules and laws that concern our work.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u85	Are there any other statements on the submitted bill? I can't see. We're closing the discussion. [[Reply by MP Desislava Taneva.]] I didn't see you here. Sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The report clearly states that the current bill is in practice presented and proposed due to different requirements for which we have a deadline under regulations for their implementation in Bulgarian legislation. It's all understandable, normal procedures. I'd ask a question if someone from the Ministry still decided to answer us. This bill is presented by two MPs, it is too technical, too specialized rather than introducing policies. Why has this bill not been presented by the Council of Ministers, why has it not been initiated by the Ministry of Agriculture, passed through the respective agreed topics with the Ministry of Health, but is presented by MPs? I say again, if anyone decides to answer. Otherwise, it is clear that it is too technical. These are our obligations and Bulgaria should introduce them anyway. Of course, there are details as national solutions that can be improved in order to facilitate the work of farmers and farms in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u87	Thank you. Are there any lines to the statement? Mr. Abrovsky, a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Taneva, I understand that you doubt my expertise in animal health, but the law is extremely urgent. I'm using your line again so that I can comment on what was said a moment ago by the negotiators. We cannot allow this law to become a hostage to someone's private interests. That is precisely why I am calling on you to vote on it as it is so that the European Commission does not have to open a criminal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u89	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Mrs. Taneva, would you like a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Abrovski, my question and my appeal was to the Ministry of Agriculture and their representatives. In principle, for such a technical and specialized bill, the truth is that it really wants close expertise in animal medicine. I do not doubt you as an expert, but with such a theme, terminology and depth really is done by the executive authority. My question wasn't for you. I don't doubt your competence at all, nor my colleague Kosturkov. Why is this not an initiative of the Council of Ministers? That's it. And I said again, if there is no representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, I do not see it, I may not want to respond, but it is normal for such specialized legislation to be initiated after public discussion, through the expert teams of the other ministries, usually by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. I don't see any desire from the Ministry of Agriculture for anyone to get involved. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we are not going to support this bill and the reason for this is not because it would lead to negative consequences for animal health or agriculture, and the reason for this is that this is another regulation that has been introduced to us by the European Union as a regulation and we must adopt it within a period of time, so we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u93	Thank you. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Turtle, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, as Mrs. Taneva said, this is a very technical and specific law that allows us to implement or rather not to tolerate sanctions for the non-application of European regulations, so that the Parliamentary Group of Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u95	Thank you, Mr. Turtle. Any lines to Mr. Turtle's statement? I can't see. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. We're closing the discussion. We must proceed to the vote at the first reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Activity Act No 47-254-01-52, submitted by the MPs Plamen Abrovski and Rosen Koshurkov on 13 May 2022. They voted 120 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 19. The bill was passed at first reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE YOUTH LAW. Mr. Chenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Act for amendment and supplement of the Youth Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Inna Ivanova, Deyan Petkov and Vasil Zashkev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by The National Youth Strategy shall contain: 1. analysis of the challenges of youth policy; 2. vision for the development of youth policy; 3. guiding principles in the implementation of the strategy; 4. strategic objectives of the state policy for youth; 5. basic measures and financial mechanisms for the implementation of the strategy; 6. expected results of the implementation of the strategy; 7. actions for monitoring, evaluation and update of the strategy. According to § 3 there is a proposal of the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Inna Ivanova, Deyan Petkov and Vasil Zashkev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Inna Ivanova, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Article 5 is amended as follows: Art. 5. (1) The National Assembly shall adopt a report on youth for a period of two years on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. (2) The Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly the report on youth under para. 1, developed by the Minister for Youth and Sports, within 30 September of the year following the corresponding two-year period. (3) The report on youth under para. 1 includes changes and trends in the socio-economic situation of young people during the corresponding two-year period. (4) The contents of the report on youth under para. 1 shall cover at least the following thematic areas: 1. education; 2. employment; 3. health and well-being; 4. equality and inclusion; 5. young people from small towns; 6. awareness and digital skills; 7. Youth organizations. (5) The report adopted by the National Assembly on youth under para. 1 shall be published on the websites of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the National Information System for Youth.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u97	That's it. That was al. Five, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u98	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u99	Colleagues, are there any statements on the name of the Bill and on the first three paragraphs? I can't see. Please vote on the name of the bill and § 1, § 2 and § 3. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The name and paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 have been adopted. Please, Mr. Chenchev, proceed with § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A proposal was made by the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Inna Ivanova, Deyan Petkov u Vasil Zashkev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "March 31st" shall be replaced by "April 30th." 2. The creation of para. 4. By 30 September, a report shall be drawn up on the implementation of the annual plan under para. 1 for the previous year, which is published on the websites of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the National Information System for Youth. A proposal was made by the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Inna Ivanova, Deyan Petkov u Vasil Zashkev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, p. 3 is finally added and controls their implementation. § 6. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... Article 10 is amended as Art. 10. In carrying out the state policy for youth, the Minister of Youth and Sport shall be assisted by the National Advisory Council for Youth under art. 11 and by the Public Council on Youth Affairs under art. 11a.......................................................................................................... According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Inna Ivanova, Deyan Petkov u Vasil Zashkev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... Article 11 is amended as follows: Art. 11. (1) The National Youth Advisory Council shall: 1. give opinions on draft regulations and strategic documents relating to the state policy for youth; 2. propose measures to achieve the objectives of public youth policy; 3. discusses issues related to the implementation of the state policy for youth. (2) The National Advisory Council for Youth shall include: the Minister of Youth and Sports or the Deputy Minister of Youth and Sport, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Deputy Minister of Interior, Deputy Minister of Energy, Deputy Minister of Health, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Deputy Minister of Economy and Industry, Deputy Minister of Culture, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, Deputy Minister of Defence, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Deputy Minister of Tourism, Deputy Minister of Finance, Deputy Minister of Innovation and Growth, Deputy Minister of Electronic Governance, Deputy Minister of the State Agency for Child Protection, Representative of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, representative of the National Representation of Student Councils in the Republic of Bulgaria, one representative from each national representative representative of the youth. (3) The name composition of the National Youth Advisory Council shall be determined by order of the Minister of Youth and Sport on a proposal from the Head of the relevant office or organisation under para. 2. (4) The Minister of Youth and Sport shall issue rules on the organisation and activities of the National Advisory Council for Youth. (5) Chairman of the National Youth Advisory Council shall be the Minister for Youth and Sports or the Deputy Minister for Youth and Sports authorised by him. (6) The National Youth Advisory Council may invite other experts in the field of youth policy to attend its meetings. (7) The Ministry of Youth and Sports shall publish up-to-date information on the activities of the National Youth Advisory Council on the website of the National Youth Information System.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u101	Please, this is it. Colleagues, are there any statements under paragraphs 4 to 7 included? Colleague Galunova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will comment on the Bill in full. When it was tabled in March, we abstained from the vote because we had a few remarks that were addressed, one to the thematic areas where belonging to the European Union was at stake, and there was no patriotic education. The changes that have been made now are to remove belonging to the European Union, which we agree with. As our other remark was that the report should not be every three years, but be every two years, so that the National Assembly could exercise control over it during its term of office. These two remarks have been implemented, so we will support the Bill in full and a member by member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u103	Thank you. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? I can't see either. Colleagues, I am voting on § 4, § 5, § 6 and § 7, proposed by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. Paragraphs have been adopted. Please, Mrs. Ivanova, proceed with § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to § 8 there is a proposal of the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Inna Ivanova, Deyan Petkov and Vasil Zashkev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Inna Ivanova, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 11a: Art. 11a. (1) The Public Council on Youth Affairs: 1. discusses and gives proposals and opinions on draft legislative acts of the Minister for Youth and Sports; 2. discusses and gives proposals on projects of strategic and programming documents, as well as on reports on the implementation of youth policy in the country; 3. proposes concrete initiatives in the field of youth policy in the country; 4. deliver an opinion on the implementation of the actions taken by the Minister for Youth and Sports, as well as discuss the results achieved in the implementation of the state youth policy and propose measures and recommendations for optimising the actions implemented and specific problems; 5. assist the interaction of the Ministry of Youth and Sport with civil organisations in the development and implementation of policies for youth. (2) The Public Council on Youth Affairs shall include: 1. one representative of the Ministry of Youth and Sport; 2. one representative from each national representative youth organisation; 3. one representative of the National Representation of Student Councils in the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. to 14 representatives of youth organizations within the meaning of art. 20, para. 1; 5. to 6 representatives of organizations working with and for young people. (3) The rules of procedure for the selection of the organizations under para. 2, p. 4 and 5 are determined by order of the Minister for Youth and Sports. (4) The term of office of the Public Council on Youth Affairs shall be three years. (5) The name composition of the Public Council on Youth Affairs shall be determined by order of the Minister of Youth and Sport on a proposal from the relevant organisation. (6) The Minister of Youth and Sport shall issue rules on the organisation and activities of the Public Council on Youth Affairs. (7) The Ministry of Youth and Sports publishes up-to-date information on the activities of the Public Youth Council on the website of the National Youth Information System.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u105	Go ahead and § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u106	According to § 9 there is a proposal received by the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Inna Ivanova, Deyan Petkov and Vasil Zashkev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 After the words of the Council on Youth and Sports, the Council of State on Youth and Sports is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u107	Please, this is it. Colleagues, are there any statements under § 8 and § 9? Procedure? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, it is a tendency today that all the drafts discussed should be dealt with without the participation of a representative of the Council of Ministers. We are discussing the Youth Act, whose importer is the Council of Ministers, here there is not even a representative of the executive, regardless of the level. Yes, the Minister of Sports is resigned, but there are deputy ministers. A number of proposals have been made which, on the basis of art. 79, para. 6 were adopted as editorial at a Commission meeting. I am not a member of this committee, but I nevertheless believe that it is important for the people's representation to hear the position of the Council of Ministers as well. In my opinion, it is not permissible for any bill concerning any public sphere to be discussed at......... and not to have the opinion and opinion of the Council of Ministers. I therefore urge you, Mr President of the Commission, and you, Mr President, to invite a representative of the Council of Ministers. Personally, listening to Mrs. Ivanova's proposals, I cannot form an opinion on how this public council will work because, as far as I have heard, it will be broadcast by numerous members from many different organizations up to 14, for example, I was impressed when there will be rules issued by the Minister, what are the deadlines. These are all questions that we would like to ask the representatives of the executive power. Please inform the Ministry of Youth and Sports of a presence in plenary. If necessary, take a short break until a representative comes to ask questions to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Do you want a procedure? Please come in and let me hear your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure in the manner of conduct concerns Mrs. Atanasova. I would like to say that in the Commission these proposals, which we are discussing now, were adopted unanimously, including voted for the members of GERB-SDS, including Mr. Kralev. So I don't think there may be any doubts in the proposals made between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u111	Okay, regardless, please report to the Ministry of Youth and Sports that this bill is being reviewed, and if there is a chance, at least the Deputy Minister will come to the meeting, but I suggest we proceed. Before the procedures were read § 8 and 9. Are there any statements on these paragraphs? I can't see. I therefore vote on paragraphs 8 and 9, as proposed by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 8 and 9 have been adopted. Please proceed with the new paragraphs 9a, 9b, 9c and 9d.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u112	Proposal of the MPs Ivan Chenchev. Inna Ivanova, Deyan Petkov and Vasil Zashkev to create new paragraphs 9a, 9b, 9c and 9d. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 6 the words of the mayors of municipalities can be replaced by the mayors of municipalities with a population of more than 45 000. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 19 of this s (1) Youth organization shall be a voluntary association of persons for the pursuit of youth activities, which shall meet the following requirements: 1. not less than 70 percent of the persons within it are aged 15 to 29 years including; 2. more than half of the members of the governing body are young people aged 18 to 29 years, including. The Commission proposes to establish § 12: ................................................................................... Article 22 is amended as follows: Art. 22. A national representative youth organisation shall be a youth organisation meeting the following requirements: 1. registered no later than two years before submission of the application under Art. 1. 25; If I may, I'd like to do an edit here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u113	No, you can't edit. Read the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u114	"2." maintain a website containing information on: contact with the organisation; the names of the members of the management bodies; the objectives and activities of the organisation; annual financial statements and activity reports; 3. activity in the territory of no less than 30 percent of the municipalities in the country; 4. there are members not less than 900 natural and/or non-profit entities. The Commission proposes to establish § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall be amended as follows: ................................................................................... For the 1. In addition to those mentioned above, the Commission considers that there is a need for specific measures to be taken by Member States in order to ensure that the measures provided for 2. scuses working with and for young people are non-profit legal entities which do not meet the requirements of art. 19th para. 1 but the entered objective in the register of non-profit legal entities contains work with and for young people.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u115	Please, this is it. The proposed § 9a, 9b, 9c, 9c and 9d, § 10 and § 11 are there any statements? Mrs. Ivanova, you can now make a proposal for editing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u116	Yes, if I may, one edit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u117	Point out exactly where.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u118	Art. 12, Art. 22, p. 2 years before the application is submitted under art. In fact, they should be:..... no sooner than 2 years.......................................................... actually........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u119	Not earlier than 2 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u120	Not more than 2 years and not earlier than 2 years, i.e. at least 2 years to have a registration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u121	Not earlier.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u122	So the word "later" should be replaced by "later."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u123	Earlier. Not earlier than 2 years before submission of the application.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u124	This is not an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u125	I don't know if that changes the meaning. Okay, I get the point. Are there any lines on the proposal? [[Reply of MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Get a line, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u126	Yeah, it's an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u127	Wait a minute! [[Heckling]] Get a line! Let's follow the procedure. [[(National representatives from "Democratic Bulgaria") want the floor.)]] Mr. Ganev, you want a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u128	Maybe a second.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u129	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here is the question of what is the will of the legislator. If the will is that the organization is at least 2 years old...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u131	At least.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u132	...then not later than 2 years is accurate. If we want it to be no more than 2 years, then it is accurate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u133	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u134	The question is, if we want to be more than 2 years old, then not later is the exact phrase.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u135	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any other lines? Mrs. Atanasova, would you like a second line? [[Declarations of the rapporteur with the President of the Commission Ivan Chenchev and the National Representative Nikola Minchev.]] Colleagues, quieter here, it's all clear, calmer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My remark is that it is unacceptable, in my opinion, that this proposal should be made at the moment and discussed. It completely changes the text of the Bill and its meaning basically. This is a legal norm that is being introduced now, and if Mrs. Ivanova is currently making an editorial amendment, she does not in any case comply with the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and I think she does not comply with the Law on Legislative Acts. Again, I stress that I am not a member of this committee, nor have I considered the law in detail, but it makes me uncomfortable that such proposals are being made without hearing the opinion of the Council of Ministers, and in fact Mrs. Ivanova changes their texts. Therefore, I appeal again to try to contact a representative of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. If there are other such proposals in the future, let's stop until they are discussed in detail. If Mrs. Ivanova intends to withdraw her proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u137	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u138	...then my line becomes meaningless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u139	The Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports is on his way to the National Assembly. Do you want a hole? I suggest you withdraw your offer in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u140	Thank you. That's exactly what I want, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the cue and the speech, Mrs. Atanasova. I withdraw the offer. The point is to stay for at least 2 years and to be registered for at least 2 years at the latest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u141	Great, we've cleared it up. Are there any other statements on these paragraphs? I can't see. Colleagues, I shall put to the vote the new paragraphs 9a, 9b, 9c, 9d, § 10 in the version of the Commission, § 11, § 12 and § 13 in the version of the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The read-out paragraphs have been accepted. Mrs. Ivanova, we're moving on to the Final Provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u142	Thank you. 'Concluding provisions'. Proposal of the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Inna Ivanova, Deyan Petkov and Vasil Zashkev. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division: Proposal of the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Inna Ivanova. Deyan Petkov and Vasil Zashkev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... (1) Adopted until the entry into force of this Act, youth organisations which do not meet the requirements of art. 19, as well as national representative youth organisations which do not meet the requirements of art. 22 shall be brought into conformity with these requirements within one year of the entry into force of this law. (2) Within the term under para. 1 The national representative youth organisations shall apply for entry under art. 25. (3) National representative youth organisations which have failed to fulfil the condition under para. 1 shall be deleted from the list referred to in Article 1. 23, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Paragraph 10 supposed by the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Inna Ivanova, Deyan Petkov and Vasil Zashkev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... The Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly a report on youth under art. 5, para. 1 for the period 2021 - 2022 by 30 September 2023 Proposal of the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Inna Ivanova, Deyan Petkov and Vasil Zashkev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u143	Thank you. Colleagues, speeches on the final provisions? I can't see. We're closing the discussion. I shall put to the vote the name of the section "Transitional and final provisions" § 14, § 15 and § 16, which completes the entire bill. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The bill has been passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u144	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u145	Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u146	Mr. Chairman, a very brief procedure. Thanks to everyone who worked. I thank the MPs and, of course, the people who worked on these proposals. Believe me, you are not mistaken because many youth organizations support them, including the National Youth Forum. So it's not something that's a conflict, but it's been waiting a long time, we're setting up some of the relationships. I don't see anything scary, so on the contrary. Thank you all, to the House and especially to the team of the Committee on Children's Affairs Youth and Sports all were perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's not start the next point because we only have two or three minutes? [[Heckling]] I'm announcing a 30-minute break at 11.55. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u148	Colleagues, I'm going to resume the hearing. The next item on the agenda is: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LEGISLATION LAW AND ADVISION OF THE LAW ON THE INTERNAL COMMUNICATION TRADE LEGISLATION. Importer: Council of Ministers. Mr. Karimansky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose on the grounds of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to vote in the Chamber to allow the following persons to be admitted: Mrs Emilia Alexandrova, State Expert at the Directorate of the Administration Modernization and Mrs Diana Yancheva, Vice-President of the National Statistical Institute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u150	Thank you for your offer. Colleagues, I'm voting for admission to the House of Mr. Karimanski's proposed persons. Colleagues, there is no quorum. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm calling off the vote. There's no quorum. I'm giving you 15 minutes off.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u151	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u152	So they can get together. [[Heckling]] What can I do if there's no quorum? [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u153	Colleagues, I'm going to resume the hearing. Before the break, there was a proposal made by Mr. Karimanski for access to the hall of two executives. I'm rethinking access to the hall. They voted 109 MPs: 108, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the faces to the hall. Mrs. Atanasova has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A few minutes ago, another lawlessness and political arbitrariness of the majority in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly crashed at the Constitutional Court. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u155	Mrs. Atanasova, a moment. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u156	Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u157	It's not a procedure. It's a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u158	I'm going to announce what my procedure is and it's about this crash of Change.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u159	Look, it's a declaration, not...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u160	It's not a declaration, it's a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u161	Okay, tell me what...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u162	The Constitutional Court, with an impressive majority, has declared the election of the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission as unconstitutional. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u163	I'm asking you for the procedure because... Don't force me to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u164	I won't force you to do anything, Mr. Chairman. I will force the majority to submit, as soon as possible, a draft decision to change the unconstitutional president of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for procedural rules corresponding to the Constitution, [[Replications from the parliamentary group of.. We continue the Change.]] , for an urgent hearing of the Minister of Energy because, Mr. Chairman, if the one who calls out in the second row does not realize that the Constitutional Court's decision means that all decisions of the Commission on energy and water regulation in this Chamber can be challenged by any interested party, and this means a collapse of Bulgarian energy, there are people with reason who understand enough of the subject and of legality and law, and Constitution. I call, with the power of your majority, if necessary, the opposition will also help you, to invite the Energy Minister to this House immediately to seek an emergency exit from this situation because of your brutal collapse of the Constitution that we have reached today! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I call on you in the last days of this Forty-Seventh National Assembly to submit a procedure for the election of a new Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, I do not dispute that you have this right as a majority, so that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will continue to work. We are looking at very difficult months for Bulgarian energy and we need to make adequate decisions. If you don't understand it and your only reaction is to scream from the second row, that means that you really are total amateurs not full! [[(a line from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev:]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u165	Mrs. Atanasova, I've had the patience to wait for you, but you've broken the rules. Why didn't you ask for the word for a declaration, but for some fictional procedure? [[Noise and lines.]] Well, yeah, that's what you should have done. [[Heckling]] You're trying to provoke this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u166	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u167	What about you? The way you're leading it? Maybe you're right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u168	Mr. Chairman, a different subject and with a different tone I will address you. You may not have noticed, but at today's meeting we have international guests - French and American students who have come here as social workers to work with minorities in Bulgaria and with refugees in our country. Thank them for being here. Let's welcome them. [[Applause.]] Interestingly, Mr. President, when we have guests who are not from Bulgaria, they do not hear and do not understand perhaps what we are talking about, but I am convinced that one thing can understand the tone and the tone and I am convinced that by this tone and this tone they make a real difference between the old and the new. [[It addresses the guests of the balcony.]] Thank you for being here, young people! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u169	Mr. Mitev, I don't understand what you're talking about. All right, here we go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner in which you are directed. When a lady who has not even registered today in the hall and apparently she is not even present according to the registration in the hall, goes out on the stand and says that we are breaking the law, breaking the law................................................................................... [[(a line from the MP Desislava Atanasova:]] This is the audacity of GERB! You didn't even register. [[Strong noise and lines from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS.]] You're not even in a room, and you've been talking about responsibility and government behavior all day. You're breaking the law, and you're saying we broke the law. The insolence of GERB!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u171	Can we just be quiet for a second? Mr. Mitev, you're right. I made a remark to Mrs. Atanasova, but what more should I do? [[Noise and lines.]] Now the whole group of GERB want a procedure and what will you tell? Please, let's continue... [[Heckling]] Figure it out, one of you take the floor and get back to work. Otherwise we become very attractive, but for the audience. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Atanasov. Let's just get some peace in the room, folks. Procedure for you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Atanasova's statement was very important to the procedure, and let us explain with you, Mr. Chairman, to the colleagues who react, what is happening. The chairman of the KEWRC today must release his office by the end of the day. I don't know if you understand? [[Noise and lines.]] The chairman of the KEWR is no more. He's gone! He's gone! Do you understand what's going on? [[Noise and lines.]] The employees of the KEWRC are obliged by this second not to carry out any of his orders. Do you understand what's happening? The KEWRC has no chairman, so, Mr President, really pay attention to the House that if they wanted to know what a force major is, this is a force major. There is no KEWR Chairman, there is no thanks to you and now you have to fix this problem. [[Applause from GERB-SDS. The MPs from GERB-SDS Zhecho Stankov, Manoil Manev, Temenuzhka Petkova, Toma Bikov become straight and want the word for procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u173	Okay. Colleagues from GERB, please! All of you will now speak on the topic of the KEWRC. Everyone knows there's a Constitutional Court ruling. What's this all about? [[Noise and lines.]] What do you mean? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Okay, go ahead, come on in, but I want to know exactly what you want to offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u174	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is with you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the previous procedures aimed at you, the violation of the highest law in the State, which is the Constitution, once again, we come to a conclusion which, with the illegal election of the President of the KEWRC in any case, will cause great damage to the state. Why? Each decision of the KEWRC is tied to funds for long-term contracts, green energy, brown energy and more to not list them all. The Power System Security Fund, which was created to ensure payment in the system, all its actions...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u175	Mr. Stankov, what do you want to say to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u176	I'm addressing you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u177	Tell me what you want me to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u178	I said it. I haven't stopped talking, so I'll tell you now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u179	No, because I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u180	I hope when I finish the sentence...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u181	I could not understand why the GERB group did not take the floor for a declaration and tell each other everything.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u182	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of the National Assembly cannot be violated, can they not?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u183	What's the offense?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u184	The violation is that you are calling our parliamentary group for a declaration, and each parliamentary group within the day is entitled to one declaration. We've already made our declaration. There's no way you're calling us to make a second declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u185	Okay. And in this situation, you have no right to take the floor by procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u186	On the contrary, we have a right to take the floor because I have a procedure for you. My procedure is as follows. Please don't engage in dialogue. I refer to you as the host of the Assembly at the moment. Given the great financial damage to the state, with the possibility of every decision being appealed and falling into court, the loss that will be of a billion-dollar amount will lead to the fact that this will have an impact on financial stability, not only on energy, but on the whole country. Here in this House, you must invite the Finance Minister, and why not the Prime Minister, to come and immediately say what measures will be taken. Because, as the President of the KEWRC was illegally elected to the National Assembly, so must he be legally released from the National Assembly. And Mrs. Atanasova's call was very correct: as quickly as possible, the ruling majority to submit a procedure with which we can resolve this problem as quickly as possible, but in the presence of the energy, finance minister and prime minister, we can decide today what we will do, how we will do it. My request is for you to call them and immediately challenge a hearing of these people to see what action they will take. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u187	Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! As we are talking about the rule of law, Mr President, I ask that, when it comes to such topics, you be objective and objective to conduct these meetings, and when we talk about violations of law, damage to the budget, remind GERB colleagues that there is another such case for Captain Andreevo, where also what was the case? [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] Your company is already returning to the border where you can afford to buy good fruits and vegetables, but explain to your voters what the quality of fruits and vegetables will be that has entered before and will continue to enter with your company. So much for the law. [[The National Representative Temenuzhka Petkova is going to the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u189	No, I'm not giving you your word, Mrs. Petkova! Sit down! [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. The MPs Alexander Ivanov, Manoil Manev, Toma Bikov have become right and want the word for procedure.]] Sit down, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u190	I want procedure in the manner of conduct! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u191	Please, now with this... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] You're looking for provocation to end the meeting. Isn't that the point? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Sit down, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u192	I want a way of driving! You don't give me the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u193	No, I don't give you my word!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u194	I have a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u195	Sit down! I understand what you want. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u196	How will you refuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u197	Colleagues, I'm adjourned. Take 15 minutes off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u198	I'm resuming the hearing. For the procedure Mrs. Petkova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. As has just become known, today the Constitutional Court has ruled on a very important issue relating to the election of the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This choice has been declared unconstitutional. That means a few things. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u200	What's the procedure? Mrs. Petkova... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u201	First of all... Mr. Chairman, you'll hear my procedure, let me explain anyway. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the same way, colleagues, you behaved on February 9th when we explained to you from this very tribune about your unlawful... [[The President cut off the speaker's microphones. The orator continues to speak on off microphones.]] Mrs. Petkova, please... [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet! Quiet, please! [[The speaker keeps talking on off microphones.]] Quiet, please! Please, Mrs. Petkova, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So my procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman, is for you. In view of the importance of this issue, which I have just put out, I address you with a proposal to make a change on the agenda and to include as a point on the agenda the termination of the powers of this President, whose powers in practice the Constitutional Court changed them and such a chairman of the KEWRC as if she had never had. This means that the decisions that have been taken so far can be attacked and declared illegal. This, honourable Members, will lead to a collapse in the country's energy system and in the energy sector. I therefore call on you to take the necessary seriousness and make sure that this decision changes the agenda and puts a decision on the agenda relating to the election of a new President of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u204	Every minute this guy stays there is fatal because he can't even authorize someone to perform these functions right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u205	We get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u206	You understand what this is about, don't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u207	We understand you, Mrs. Petkova. Thank you for this procedure. Honourable Members, we continue with item 9 of the agenda of the weekly Programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE DELIVERING AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR THE INTERNAL-COMMUNITY TRADE LEGISLATION. There is also a vote on the name of § 1 in respect of which the discussion has been exhausted. For the procedure Mr. Karadayi, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. Dear Mr. Chairman, you should have reminded Mrs. Petkova that in the fetus, at the foundation of the creation of this thing, which is not yet a party called the Change.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u209	What's the procedure, Mr. Karadaye?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u210	...the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, announced by the Constitutional Court, and the violation of the laws of the country is the emblem of this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u211	What's the procedure, Mr. Karadaye?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u212	The failure of Prokopiev and the violation of the Constitution for them is patriotism, the advocacy is heroism, and the lie about them is the norm of conduct. [[noise and lines from.. Continue Change............................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u213	Okay, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u214	This is what you should have reminded Mrs. Petkova when she came out of this tribune with this concern about the state of energy. In what state is the state, in what state is the system of energy and with what illegal and unconstitutional solutions is hindered?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u215	Mr. Karadaye, there is no such procedure. We're sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u216	And there is a difficult winter ahead for Bulgarian citizens, and you are still making the situation worse in the field of energy. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u217	And thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Your procedure was not in line with the requirements of the Rules, nor did Mrs Petkova's. Now, fellow Members, we are going to vote on the texts I mentioned, namely the name of the bill, as well as § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u218	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u219	We are in a voting procedure, then you will have the opportunity to conduct a procedure. We vote on the name of the Bill and § 1. Colleagues, I'm calling off this vote. It's my fault. The discussion has been exhausted only by the name of the Bill, so I only put the name to the vote. Please, voting mode. They voted 121 MPs: 110 against 4, abstention 7. That's how the offer is accepted. Mrs. Dimova has the floor for procedure, excuse me, Mr. Karimansky. Here you go, Mrs. Dimova. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! First of all, thank you for correcting your mistake on Friday and we only voted on the title. My procedure is entirely in relation to you. We are about to have a very important law and vote, namely the second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on Statistics of Internal Community Trade in Goods. Therefore, my proposal, Mr President, is that you observe the Rules of our Parliament, namely, which we discussed on Friday, where it clearly says: "Paragraph by paragraph is read, discussed and then voted. Give each MP a chance to express his attitude with a discussion, whether by voting because, reading at once, you do not give the MPs to express their attitude under the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Mr. Manev asked for the floor of procedure before the vote. Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, the tactical shift that you have made in the management of the meeting and the tactical rest that the chairman before you has taken cannot erase what the fellow chairman of the Committee on Corruption has said from this platform before all these tactical moves. My procedure in the manner of conduct is to ask you to review the recordings of what happened from this tribune when he was speaking, and if you see there or find evidence that he has insulted in any way an entire parliamentary group in this Parliament, without any proof, without a single fact, without even hinting at a true word, to take an attitude and to punish him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u223	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Mr. Nestorov, come in for a procedure. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, as part of this procedure I would like to use to congratulate our guests from Stara Zagora district. You're welcome! [[Applause from DPS.]] And on behalf of all of you, I apologize for becoming witnesses and witnessing what's going on. My procedure, Mr. Chairman, is in the manner in which you are led. The failure of the ruling majority is defined as an attack on the prosecutor's office. It was all our fault. Now, a moment ago, the chairman of the Committee on Corruption accused the court of preventing the Change from making the change. I expect the Constitutional Court to be your fault as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u225	What's the procedure, Mr. Nestorov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u226	When they come out here and compromise the separation of authorities, you make a remark to them, and these people are independent, and no one should interfere with their attitude. This is my procedure to make remarks and impose penalties for this thing. This is fundamental to democracy. Thank you. [[Reply and applause from DPS: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u227	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Welcome to the guests and from me! Mr. Ivanov and then Mr. Atalay for procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure in the manner of conduct concerns you directly, although before the break there was another leading meeting. There was a proposal made by the parliamentary group of GERB. Ms. Atanasova proposed and asked the chairman of the meeting to invite him to the meeting today, in the context of today's decision of the Constitutional Court, naturally, the Minister of Energy, the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance, or a person authorised by them to say this decision to the Constitutional Court, which announces the election of the President of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory as unconstitutional, to what it leads. Naturally, only by your decision can a procedure be made in the framework of today's... to cancel the decision of the National Assembly for the election of the President of the KEWRC and to start a new procedure, because the threat to national security and in connection with the energy system of Bulgaria stands, but to inform us whether you really tried to make contact with some of the listed persons from the Council of Ministers and what they have told you, and whether they will be able to come within today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u229	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Atalay, do you still want the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the situation in energy every day becomes more severe not only with the lack of gas supplies...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u231	What's the procedure, Mr. Atalay?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u232	...but also with production... My procedure will now be understood, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is, the main thing is at least the two minutes I have, you don't call from there. [[Laughter and applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u233	Mr. Atalay, if you knew the Rules well enough, you would know that the President has the opportunity to guide the MP when he deviates from the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u234	Mr. Chairman, I beg you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u235	I also ask you, Mr. Atalay, with all due respect to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u236	And I have very much respect for you, so I'm going to ask you at least two minutes to be quiet. You may not see what's going on in the hall and outside the hall...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u237	I see, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u238	This does not justify that before me colleagues here related to energy asked you really seriously to engage and to come to the National Assembly, the Minister of Energy, the Contracting Gas and Gas Prices, the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, of course, and those who went and met in America to conclude gas supplies with certain Deputy Ministers. Mr. President, I would like to tell you that if we continue this way, believing that nothing has happened in Bulgaria, believing that the Constitutional Court has made a decision which we have here from this platform have warned you, persuaded you, the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission knows very clearly that it was not the person who met the criteria. The Chairman of the Energy Committee in Parliament knew very well that the rules that you then proposed them were not the ones to which this President responded. And now you're ignoring all of this, offering me to continue to pass some laws that are irrelevant! Colleagues, winter's coming! We have no president of the Commission, no gas, no electricity production. In Stara Zagora they wonder how and how to produce coal so that they can heat us up and have come here today. [[Applause from DPS]] And they're here to hear and see how it works in parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u239	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u240	I'm the most diagnostic! Please stop the meeting, ask the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the Minister of Energy to come so that the decision that is needed for the country can be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u241	And thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor to proceed with the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u242	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, and after the word.......................................................................................................... is added to the
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u243	Here's some more lyrics, Mr. Karimansky. There are no proposals anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u244	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2, i.e. The words "Implementing Regulation (EU) No 2020/1197' are replaced by the words "Implementing Regulation (EU) No 2020/1197'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] There are no proposals made in the paragraphs. What can they say when there are no suggestions?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u245	Here you are, Mr. Karimansky. Everyone will have a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u246	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u247	And §4, Mr. Karimansky, then all MPs will have the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u248	Okay. I will follow the sequence of your statements about these paragraphs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 words under the system "Intrastat" and the types of data to be declared within the meaning of art. 9 paragraph 2 of Regulation (EC) No 63' is replaced by the intra-Union exports and intra-Union imports within the meaning of art. 12 (2) of Regulation 2019/2152 and Annex V, Chapter IV, Section 29 of Implementing Regulation 2020/1197, as well as the types of additional data to be declared at national level (b) c. 3 after the word "supplied', the word "supplied' shall be replaced by the word "supplied'; (c) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. provide the aggregated and confidential data and metadata for the statistics of intra-Union trade in goods to the Directorate-General of the European Commission in accordance with the requirements of art. 10 paragraphs 2 and 3 of Implementing Regulation (EU) No2020/1197; (d) c. 6 the word "inside' shall be replaced by "inside'; (e) c. 7 the word "interior' shall be replaced by "inside' and shall be added finally in accordance with art. 11 of Implementing Regulation (EU) No 2020/1197 (f) c. 8 the word "inside' shall be replaced by "inside' and shall be added finally in accordance with art. 16 paragraphs 1 and 2 of Regulation (EU) No 2019/2152 is replaced by the following: (g) create a t. 9, 10 and 11: Nine. exchange monthly data with the National Revenue Agency and with the Customs Agency in accordance with art. 5 paragraphs 2 and 3 of Regulation (EU) No2019.2152; 10. carry out assessments of the trade of persons who are below the specified thresholds or who have not submitted declarations, have submitted declarations outside the time limit or have submitted declarations with incomplete data; 11. exchange micro data and metadata with the other Member States in accordance with art. Article 11 (2) and (3) and Article 11 (2) and (3) 16 of Regulation (EU) No 2019/2152. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 the words "data collection system' are replaced by "the system'; (b) c. 2 words.............................................................................. Article 8 (2) of Regulation (EC) No 63 17 paragraphs 1 and 2 of Regulation (EU) No2019.2152 is replaced by the following: (c) c. 3 after the word "Institution" is added "Importants of the Customs Agency"; (d) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. monitor the fulfilment of the obligations of Intrastat operators in accordance with Annex V, Chapter I, Section 7 (1) (a) and point (a) of paragraph 2 (a) of Implementing Regulation (EU) No 2020/1197; (e) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. establish administrative infringements and impose administrative penalties in accordance with Section 8 (1), (2) and (3) of Chapter I of Annex V to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 2020/1197; (f) c. 7 the word "inside" is replaced by "inside" after the words "administrative sources" and the words "art." Article 8 (2) of Regulation (EC) No 63 17 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 2019/2152. 3. In para. 3 abbreviation (EAD) is also deleted. Article 5 (2) of Regulation (EC) No 63 5 paragraph 3 of Regulation (EU) No 2019/2152 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u249	Dear colleagues, I am opening a discussion on § 1 to § 5. Mrs. Dimova for the procedure. Come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u250	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, you have once again proved that you do not follow the Rules of the National Assembly. Please, I would like you to tell me in which article exactly it says that when there are no proposals received at second reading, we can judge, read all the paragraphs together, provided that there is a demand from the stands to read this law at second vote, as written in our Rules. I want you to respect that, although you have read five paragraphs at a time, let us vote separately under these paragraphs. From now on, let's proceed with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Colleagues, are there any who wish to speak under § 1 to § 5? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Honourable Members, we are going to vote on paragraphs 1 to 5. We will vote on them separately, in so far as such an objection has been made. I shall put, first of all, to the vote § 1, which is by importer, with the corresponding adjustment by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 97, none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u252	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u253	We're revoting, coworkers, okay, revoting. They voted 135 MPs: 98, against 3, abstention 34. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 2 which is by importer, with the corresponding adjustment by the Commission. They voted 134 MPs: 121, none, abstention 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u254	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u255	We're revoting, colleagues. 140 MPs voted: 124, against 3, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote § 3, which is by importer. Vote 141 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u256	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u257	We're revoting, colleagues. They voted 152 MPs: for 107 against 4, abstention 41. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 4, which shall be in the version of the Commission. They voted 144 MPs: 131, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u258	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u259	We're revoting, colleagues. Vote 148 MPs: 111, against 2, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote § 5, which is by importer. They voted 153 MPs: 124 against 3 abstentions 26. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u260	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u261	We're revoting, colleagues. They voted 147 MPs: 113 against 11, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u262	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, i.e. 2 in para. 3 the words "Persons" shall be replaced by "Outside cases" under para. 1 and 2, the persons. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8 by: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the words "sents" shall be replaced by "sents" or "sents." 2. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it, the word "may" is replaced by "may." The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 9, and the word "anywhere' is replaced by "al'. One and two. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, i.e. 4 the words.. must be performed........................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 words can be replaced by.................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall include: 1 the words "Chapter III' are replaced by "Annex V, Chapter III'. To "Transitional and Final Provisions "?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u263	Let's stop here, Mr. Karimansky. Thank you. I open the discussion on the texts read by Mr Karimanski from § 6 to § 15. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote § 6 which is an importer. Vote 127 MPs: 107 against 4, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] We're overreacting. They voted 147 MPs: 111, against 11, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 7 which is an importer with the corresponding adjustment by the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: 110, against 4, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u264	Can I have a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u265	We're overreacting. They voted 142 MPs: 106 against 7, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 8 which is an importer with the corresponding adjustment by the Commission. They voted 144 MPs: 110 against 8, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] Colleagues, we're overreacting. They voted 142 MPs: 114, against 8, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 9 which is an importer with the corresponding adjustment by the Commission. They voted 137 MPs: 110, against 4, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] Colleagues, we're overreacting. Vote 136 MPs: 110 against 9, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u266	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u267	That was the re-voting. Colleagues, we are voting on § 10 by importer with the corresponding adjustment by the Commission. They voted 142 MPs: 110, against 8, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u268	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u269	We're overreacting. They voted 143 MPs: 115 against 7, abstention 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u270	Please allow me to vote elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u271	Mr. Balachev, you can contact the Quaestors in the hall, there are plenty of available panels that you can use. I put to the vote § 1, which is by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u272	Procedure in the manner of conduct. Where's my voice going?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u273	I ask the Quaestors to cooperate with Mr. Balachev in order to succeed in voting. They voted 147 MPs: 115 against 7, abstention 25. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u274	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u275	We're overreacting. They voted 153 MPs: 122, against 8, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote § 12, which is by importer. Vote 148 MPs: 117, against 10, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 13, which shall be in the version of the Commission. Vote 148 MPs: 117 against 8, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u276	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u277	We're overreacting. Vote 148 MPs: 120 against 9, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote § 14, which is by importer. They voted 152 MPs: 121, against 10, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 15 which is an importer with the corresponding Commission adjustment. They voted 159 MPs: 127, against 6, abstention 26. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u278	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u279	Colleagues, we're overreacting. Vote 151 MPs: 121 against 8, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u280	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... Intrastat operator shall make adjustments to the data submitted before the entry into force of the law within the period under art. 12, para. 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18: .............................................................................. In the Act on the obligations of the International Fund for Compensation for damages caused by oil pollution (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "in-house arrivals' shall be replaced by "in-Union imports'; (b) c. 3 the words "interior arrivals' shall be replaced by "in-Union imports'. 2. In § 1 of the additional provisions, point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 is amended as follows: It's six. In-Union imports shall be supplies of taxed oil representing intra-Union imports within the meaning of Article 1. 1, para. 4 of the Act on statistics of intra-Union trade in goods. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19: "Seriously, I'm The Minister of Finance shall establish the ordinance under art. 6, para. 2 in accordance with this law within 6 months of its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u281	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Colleagues, I am opening a discussion on the name of the division and paragraphs 16 to 19. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote, first of all, the name of the division which is by importer. They voted 161 MPs: 131, against 10, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 16, which shall be in the version of the Commission. They voted 153 MPs: 120 against 7, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote § 17, which is by importer. They voted 147 MPs: 120, against 5, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote § 18, which is in the version of the Commission. They voted 147 MPs: 118, against 5, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 19, which shall be in the version of the Commission. They voted 153 MPs: 116 against 9, abstention 28. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u282	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u283	We're revoting, colleagues. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Vote 168 MPs: 115 against 41, abstention 12. The proposal has also been adopted by the draft law on the second vote. Colleagues, I should read you a message, then I'll give the floor to... Here you are, Mr. Karimansky, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u284	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal that tomorrow's first point be the Bill of Amendment and Supplement to the Gambling Act. Please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u285	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Is there a reverse opinion or any other procedural proposal in this regard, fellow Members? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Lyubomir Karimanski as point one for Friday to be fixed the bill for amendment and supplement to the Gambling Act. And the fixed point, Mr. Karimansky, to be second for Friday? [[Reply from MP Lyubomir Karimanski.]] Stop this vote. Mr. Karimanski, please clarify your proposal as we have now adopted a fixed first point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u286	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I suggest that the layout of the dots be changed for tomorrow. The first point to be the Bill of Amendment and Supplement to the Gambling Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u287	And what about point 16, which is already fixed as the first for Friday and adopted by the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u288	She'll be second.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u289	Second fixed of the day. Please vote on it, fellow Members. They voted 199 MPs: for 94, against 58, abstention 47. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] The offer is not accepted. We're revoting, colleagues. They voted 203 MPs: 98, against 57, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, let me read you a message regarding parliamentary control for tomorrow, July 22, 2022, Friday... [[Replicate from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov.]] I started the message, Mr. Ivanov, please wait for me. The Members of the National Assembly will answer questions: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economy and Industry and Minister for Economy and Industry in Retirement Cornelia Ninova will answer a question from the MP Rumen Hristov. 2. The Minister of Interior in Retire Boyko Rashkov will answer five questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov; Ramadan Atali (two questions); Ahmed Ahmedov; and Yuseyin Weyselov. 3. The Minister of Culture in Retirement Atanas Atanasov will answer four questions from the MPs Ivan Totev and Stefan Shilev (two questions); Peter Kulenski and Ivaylo Shotev; and Dimitar Nikolov. On the basis of art. 92, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly due to urgent commitments in the parliamentary control meeting will not participate: - Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works in Retirement Grozdan Karadjov; - Minister of Transport and Retirement Communications Nikolai Subev; - Minister of Agriculture in Retire Ivan Ivanov. On the basis of art. 92, para. 3 of the Council of Ministers will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting because of a business trip outside the country, the Minister of Energy in Retirement Alexander Nikolov will not participate. On the basis of art. 92, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, due to lack of respectable reasons, shall be postponed to: - two questions from the MP Dimitar Avramov to the Minister of the Interior in Retirement Boyko Rashkov; - a question from the MP Zarko Marinov to the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Retirement Teodora Genchovska.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u290	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u291	For the procedure Mr. Nastimir Ananiev. [[Radio.]] Colleagues, this meeting isn't over yet. Please take your seats. We have a request for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u292	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that the bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, which was not approved for item one, be fixed tomorrow as item two on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u293	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u294	It's not fixed, we didn't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u295	Not at the moment, colleagues. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. My fellow Members, I am voting on the proposal made by Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, point 12, which is the Second Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Gambling Act, to be the second item, fixed for tomorrow Friday. [[Radio.]] Yes, colleagues, there is a technical problem. Please be patient. Now we're gonna check out exactly what's going on. [[Radio.]] We're in voting mode for Mr. Ananiev's procedure. They voted 127 MPs: 80, against 12, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. Mr. Simeonov, please come in for a procedure. [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] There's one more minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I appeal to you, Mr President: if it is possible to put to the vote the proposal to vote on the reports on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, because for the fourth time the Ombudsman is here with us and we have heard half a day's reports. Therefore, I ask you to put to the vote the motion for voting and acceptance of the reports on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u297	Mr. Simeonov, just one clarification. The discussion on these bills is not over. You want to be included this point as which? Tonight to extend the time and be voted on or tomorrow to be...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u298	As a point to end today's plenary day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u299	I don't understand. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS and DPS.]] Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u300	As a point of our meeting today.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u301	And to extend the time. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS and DPS.]] Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote what has been done... [[National representatives of GERB-SDS and DPS are in front of the stands. Loud noise and lines.]] Wait, wait, wait! Colleagues, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u302	You can't take a vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u303	Please take your seats, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u304	It's 2:00 a.m. right now!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u305	Mr. Angelov, please take your place. Please. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made... [[Reply:.14.00 it's time!.]] Okay, if you want to vote, don't vote if you don't want to. [[Reply: you don't have the right!]] I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Simeonov, and this is the following: to extend the time of this plenary session and to look at point 10th "Reports on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020 and 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u306	Mr. Ivanov, you're breaking the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u307	Gavra with the law every step of the way!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u308	You're breaking the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u309	You're disturbing the order of the court. [[Noise and lines.]] Sit down and vote, my fellow Members, there is a procedural proposal, and I will put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u310	How are you gonna do that after 2:00? [[Reply from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u311	If you'd sat in your seats, I'd have known there was one, Mr. Gadget! [[Noise and lines.]] I'm pretending to be hit. How am I pretending to be hit? Will you vote, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u312	Colleagues, don't leave Miro's resignation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u313	Abort the vote, please. [[Loud noise and lines.]] 90 MPs voted: 24, Against 14, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u314	Come on, this one's resignation tomorrow first point!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-21.u315	In order to run out of time in today's plenary session, I am closing the sitting. The next regular plenary session will take place tomorrow, 22 July 2022, at 9.00 on the already adopted agenda. Have a nice afternoon, guys. [[PHONE RINGING]]
