ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u1	Good morning, colleagues! There was a meeting of the Conference of Presidents. That's why we're slowing down. Registered 188 MPs in the hall and already 10 MPs participating online and becoming 198. With this, we can begin our meeting. Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is, of course, in the manner of conduct, because I see no other procedure in which to tell you that the Conference of Presidents does not cause 200 people in the Chamber to wait for someone to open the meeting. There is no text in the Rules of Procedure that says that the Conference of Presidents may meet during the opening of the sitting, first. Secondly, there has been a confusion because even if there has been, I am convinced that there is a reason to sit, a Vice-President should have been authorised to open the meeting, and we should begin. There's a messy situation here in the gym. I do not know on what grounds you are humiliating the MPs to stand and wait for the equal of themselves to open or not to open the meeting. And to conclude, I ask you to take note, the entire Presidency Council, especially the leadership of the National Assembly, because the people's representation is not obliged to tolerate such an attitude. [[Applause from DPS, GERB-SDS and ARCHIVE.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Absolutely a resonant note. I apologize to the MPs for that. I hope this situation doesn't happen again. If we had assumed that the Conference of Presidents would last longer, we would have authorised a Vice-President to start the meeting, but that was how it happened. I beg your pardon once again. We continue now with the work of the National Assembly if there are no other procedures. Now we have to deliver the written answers from: - Minister Alexander Nikolov on three questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Assen Vassilev on a question from the MP Krum Zarkov; - Minister Atanas Atanasov on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev, to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov, to two questions from the National Representative Toma Bikov; - Minister Boyko Rashkov on a question from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva, two questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and two questions from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Borislav Sandov on two issues from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Grozdan Karadjov on a question from the National Representative Vladimir Marinov, on four questions from the National Representative Denitsa Sacheva, on four questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev, on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov and two questions from the National Representative Rositsa Kirova; - Minister Daniel Lorre on four questions from the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova; - Minister Ivan Ivanov to three questions from the National Representative Plamen Abrovski, to a question from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev, to a question from the MPs Sevim Ali, Esheref Escheref and Fatme Ramadan, to a question from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; - Prime Minister Kiril Petkov on a question from the National Representative Desislava Trifonova, a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and a question from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Cornelia Ninova on a question from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva, from the National Representative Desislava Atanasova and the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Nikolay Denkov on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister Nikolay Sabev on a question from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva, from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; - Minister Stefan Yanev on a question from the MP Atanas Slavov. Please give them away later. For a statement, Mr. Gurov? Here you go, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! DECLARATION of the ruling coalition and the parliamentary groups of Coalition: Taking into account that the systemic erosion of the rule of law in the country is due to the construction of oligarchic dependencies of the institutions, corruption at the high levels of power in the last decade and the lack of effective investigation and exercise of an indictment function by the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office; Having regard to the fact that the status and functions of the Prosecutor General deviate substantially from the established standards of the European Union and the Council of Europe, and that there are no effective mechanisms for seeking accountability and responsibility of the Prosecutor General; Taking into account the systemic findings and recommendations of the institutions of the European Union in various official documents regarding the lack of effectiveness in the investigation of corruption at high levels of power, namely: Report on the rule of law for 2020, Report on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism of 2018, Resolution of the European Parliament on the Rule of Law and Fundamental Rights in Bulgaria; Having regard to the specific findings in the resolution of the European Parliament of 8 October 2020 on the rule of law and fundamental rights in Bulgaria, I quote: taking into account the position of the European Commission on the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan, which explicitly insists on the establishment of an effective investigation, accountability and responsibility mechanism of the Prosecutor General, as well as measures to ensure the rule of law as a condition for obtaining funding of projects under the plan; having regard to the recommendations and standards of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe regarding the provision of an effective investigation, accountability and responsibility of the Prosecutor General,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Having regard to the Decision of the European Court of Human Rights of 5 November 2009, Kolvi v Bulgaria (Action No 1108/02) on the lack of an effective investigation mechanism with regard to the Prosecutor General; Taking into account that according to the World Justice Project Rule of Law Index for 2021, Bulgaria is ranked 62nd (and last place for the Union) from 139 countries; whereas according to the Transparency International Bulgaria's 2020 Corruption Perception Index ranks 69th in the world from 180 countries and is the last place in the rankings within the European Union; Taking into account the systemic low levels of public confidence in the Prosecutor General's Office, 10% in 2021. (according to Alpha Research), as well as the mass civil protests in 2020, calling for the resignation of the Attorney General; Taking into account the inaction of the prosecution and its leadership in investigating cases of corruption at high levels of power, which led to the imposition of unprecedented sanctions under the Global Law of the United States, which are damaging the international authority of the country; Having regard to the lack of an effective investigation of cases or progress in cases of high public interest: the cases of the draining and bankruptcy of the Corporate Commercial Bank, the case of the case of the eight dwarfs, the case of the Apartment Gate, the case of the unexplained wealth demonstrated in the residence of the former Prime Minister; taking into account the selective activation of the prosecution's management in accordance with the political situation and the dependence on the governing formations until May 2021; Taking into account a number of politically motivated statements and concrete actions of the Prosecutor General, including publicly expressed negative assessments and qualifications for individual political leaders, as well as close relations with other political leaders; stressing the violation of explicit legal, professional and ethical standards in relation to the disclosure of information acquired by special intelligence means (CSDs), including with regard to the Head of State; stressing cases of abuse of power in connection with the unconstitutional invading of armed persons directly subordinate to the Prosecutor General in the official building of the Presidency and carrying out acts which have been annulled as unlawful by the Court; stressing that the Prosecutor General has not defended the constitutional rights of citizens to a peaceful protest by allowing his directly subordinate Special Prosecutor's Office to request mass implementation of the SRS in relation to hundreds of peaceful protesters of Bulgarian citizens, including opposition political leaders, journalists and civil society activists, classified as a threat to national security; noting that the Supreme Judicial Council has been submitted by the Minister of Justice a reasoned request for the release of the Prosecutor General on the basis of art. 129, para. 3, p. 5 of the Constitution and in accordance with the Law on the Judiciary; Whereas the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office also employs many worthy professionals who cannot demonstrate their effectiveness in terms of leadership which has lost public trust and institutional support, including European and American partners; having regard to the Court of Auditors' report on the implementation of the budget of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) for the financial year 2013, together with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), RECOGNITION: The Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Ivan Geshev to resign, thus taking responsibility for his actions and enabling the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office to fully perform its constitutional functions in defence of the public interest, the rule of law and the rights and freedoms of citizens! [[(bourn long applause, interrupting the speaker, MPs from Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo!, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] [[Extreme applauses from "We are continuing the Change, "BSP for Bulgaria", "There is such a people", "Democratic Bulgaria".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u5	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u6	Mr. Chairman, my question is why isn't the Minister of Justice here today? The hearing of the SJC was at 10:00, it could have been rearranged in such a way that, before or after, it would have answered the important question about the leak of personal data of 300,000. Bulgarians. Furthermore, none of the entities currently in writing, as required by the law, have been notified. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Yesterday it was announced in the Parliamentary Control Communication the reason for her absence. He'll answer in the next Friday control. There is no way for a minister to escape from a matter of MPs. I think it makes sense, however, that the reasons on which she asked for this postponement, since we do not know when it will end. [[Relations of MP Danny Kanazireva.]] That's my answer. For the next Friday's control, she'll be here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u8	Sick or abroad?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u9	Here you go, Mr. Ganev, procedure or declaration? Please come in for an affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Our declaration is very simple. A moment ago, you were clapping, and you became an aplomb to a request. A request to the Attorney General! Request! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] In this regard, let's clearly and accurately tell how things stand. The first bill introduced into this National Assembly was at an age and was specifically about a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, which clearly and accurately defined the things that, if discussed, then entered the Chamber, then adopted, we would have had the opportunity with concrete steps to reform the Supreme Judicial Council, hence to replace the Attorney General directly. Right now, your demagogy is total. You're talking about a request, and at the same time, the real actions you're covering up, you're doing absolutely nothing. The final liberals who are in this sector, and not the DPS, are silent, not to say as what, and do absolutely nothing about one of their main points of support for your chief prosecutor, which you ask, once again, and cannot happen with a request, but with concrete actions: we call you instead of insulting the people for being fascists, to go out and vote on the proposed bill in order to have the possibility of a real change of the chief prosecutor. [[sighs right]] Everything else is a complete demagogy. And clapping at one request is a shame and a disgrace to all of you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and ARRANGEMENT. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u11	Are you the people?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u12	Are there any other procedures, declarations? If not, we move on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. First responds Mr. Grozdan Karadjov, Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from the MP Ivan Chenchev about placing a soundproof wall in the village of Churek, Elin Pelin municipality. Here you are, Mr. Chenchev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, honourable Members! As I'm sure you're aware, I've prepared a question. However, this issue, which is prepared, stands on the agenda and actually begins its fourth year. I set it on 11 December 2018 for the first time. As much as in this Chamber after the declarations we have heard, this issue may be more trivial, it stands because it is a matter of agenda for Bulgarian citizens, and especially for the village of Churek, Elin Pelin municipality. Everyone in this room I am convinced that you know, and now when I tell you, you will remember that when you drive your cars along the highway of Hemus, somewhere within the 26th kilometer of Sofia there is a village of Churek, which is in the municipality of Elin Pelin, and there every truck, every larger car or car that passes at higher speed, throws on the side, literally on the roofs of the houses in this village, mud, dust, dirt, contaminate the air and whatnot. And these people, since I've been to this village repeatedly, live in extremely bad conditions, not to mention plumbing, not to tell you about other infrastructure problems. But anyway, this is a big problem and I put it to two ministers, then by the ruling coalition GERB, who just gave some answers and there is no result. It's the fourth year since I asked that question! As I am aware that we have all at the moment imagined what this means on our heads as if we were going through 24/7 trucking, what noise and what dirt I am asking you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I am finishing, Mr. Chairman, to take attitude and get acquainted. Because I don't believe I actually know how much a soundproof wall is worth. It's about a few kilometers, maybe not more than two or three kilometers along this highway route, to make sure that these people have such a fence really soon. And in my attitude to your response, I will also tell you what the European Union requires in terms of decibels and how much noise it should be there and not what it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u14	Thank you. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u15	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chenchev, I thank you for this question, because as a regional minister at the moment and for me it is important that people's lives and their well-being be good and grow. In the case of the village of Churek, this is obviously not the case. I can tell you that, as early as June 2020, the Road Infrastructure Agency has announced such a public procurement with subject:..Development of building buildings for residential areas with overcrowded noise levels in the vicinity of road sections of the Republican network with traffic of more than 3 million vehicles per year. Unfortunately, for this position, no candidate has appeared and no offers have been submitted. This is also the only reason that the Road Infrastructure Agency did not enter into a contract, therefore this self-defense barrier is not yet placed there. I can further say that for its Plan by the end of 2021, the Agency had included in its activities a new public procurement for development of projects for self-defense facilities for sections of the Republican road network for which a high level of noise has been established, including this is the Motorway at the village of Churek, the municipality of Elin Pelin, but the award of the project was postponed for the beginning of 2022. I have no idea of the reason why it led to this inappropriate decision in my opinion. Therefore, I assure you now that the Road Infrastructure Agency will be responsible for the commitments made and will conduct a new public procurement on the basis of which to design the project for the protection facilities of the Motorway "Hemus" and to look for and explore the possibilities for its inclusion in the building program.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u16	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. One thing's clear. It's clear there's a problem. I thank you for your desire and intent to solve this problem, because indeed the living conditions in this village are inhuman. And again, I'm telling you, I won't mention the other problems, they'll have their place and the questions asked at all will be to other ministers. But the noise level is measured on the spot to get an idea. There are still little children living there. This is a village that is 26 km from Sofia. Then we'll talk, again I tell you, in front of other ministers and with the problems with transport, with the roads, with the plumbing, but it's a beautiful village near the capital, which I would say is in isolation. The noise level measured on the ground is more than 90 decibels, and notice, the permissible norm of the European requirements for an intensive movement location is 60 decibels. Therefore, one such fence, namely such a noiseproofing facility, can reduce the noise and pollution level to exactly 30 decibels. That's how it works on what these companies have to do with equipment like this. So I will really be very grateful on behalf of the people there, since I have been there many times. It's not a commercial, it's not a pose. I told you: four years personally I deal with this issue, and separately probably other MPs before me, but this is a question, I think, of all. Bulgarian citizens should not live under such conditions, so I am sure, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that you will take appropriate measures to solve this really hurtful problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Would you like a douche? Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u19	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chenchev, I can only make a commitment to you that if an offer is submitted to the upcoming competition for the Public Procurement Act, we will provide funds within the capital expenditure provided for the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the implementation of this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u20	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. For a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once we have heard one declaration, which may actually have ended the judicial reform, I would like in our declaration to touch on another subject which I think is just as essential. Dear Members of the National Assembly, during the last seven months we have witnessed the unprecedented increase in the price of electricity at the Bulgarian independent energy exchange in the generation "Day forward" as well as the price of natural gas, and in certain days and hours the price of electricity reaches BGN 1061. at a megawatt hour at 18:00 on 22 December 2021. Such price levels are achieved for the first time since the establishment and operation of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange and this is extremely disturbing. Already within the Forty-sixth National Assembly of GERB-SDS Group, we have alerted the caretaker government to take action related to controlling the prices of energy resources and to develop a compensatory mechanism to support the Bulgarian business to ensure its competitiveness. Our appeal was overlooked and a few months later the results were not late.. hundreds of closed businesses, suspended productions and freed workers. Today, when the Bulgarian business is facing the wall, the measures that are still considering the government seem endlessly late because the high accounts for December are already a fact. Yesterday we were specific enough to present you with numerous copies and invoices of electricity bills of various operators, which made it clear that the difference between their electricity costs in December 2021 compared to 2020 is huge and the price of natural gas for January 2022 compared to December 2021 is higher than 30%. We fear that while the government is doing analyses and creating working groups, there is a risk that there will soon be no one to present its analyses to and propose its late measures, because much of the small and medium-sized business will be facing bankruptcy. Against the backdrop of this disturbing situation, it is particularly disturbing that for the first time in nearly 30 years our country has been without an adopted Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022. This means that there is no clear vision for the policies of the ruling majority, by which it intends to solve the many crises in which we find ourselves health, economic, social. Unfortunately, the lack of a adopted State Budget Act for 2022 is the reason why there is no clear answer to the question of how, when and whether municipalities, businesses, health institutions, educational institutions and household consumers will be compensated for the drastic rise in electricity and natural gas prices in recent months. In addition to the fact that the government is late with the measures, we believe that what is being discussed as a proposal from them is not adequate to the situation. Yesterday we saw how the proposal of GERB-SDS for the development of a compensatory mechanism, which would satisfy the Bulgarian business, was rejected in the Chamber without valid motives. Colleagues, we said for a reason that this mechanism was not developed by the group of GERB-SDS and the experts in it, and these were the proposals we adopted by the biggest Bulgarian employers' organizations, but alas, it was not accepted. In that regard, colleagues, do you know what date tomorrow is? I'd especially like to address Mr. Ribarsky, who I don't see in the gym right now, but in order not to stress you out too much, I'll tell you, tomorrow is January 15th. Tomorrow is exactly one month since the National Assembly adopted the Decision on the establishment of a temporary committee of inquiry on issues with the energy crisis and proposals for dealing with it. Despite the passionate requests made at the time, that this committee, I quote, will carry out serious analyses on the basis of which important decisions will be made and practically nothing is over, and its period of action has ended without a report, without analysis, without any proposal whatsoever. Her only meeting was on the occasion of proposals from GERB-SDS moratorium, but its members still deserved in quotes will receive 5% more on their remuneration for this month. Colleagues, last week at the beginning of the plenary session by the ruling majority, you did not even bother to present your priorities, and yesterday you did not speak once on my proposal for the compensatory mechanism for business. I must tell you that this silence is beginning to become more deafening and frightening. We at GERB-SDS are very concerned if all your requests for analyses, working groups and adequate solutions end in this glorious way as the aforementioned committee. We are beginning to see a complete gap between words and deeds, and perhaps it is the gap between words and deeds that is the real change that, unfortunately, continues. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u22	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. We're continuing with parliamentary control. The next question is from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev on the financial results of the created mega water holding and the possibility of returning part of the capital invested back into the budget. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! A mega water holding company with high claims for investment in the sector was created. In May last year there was a hearing in a parliamentary committee and it was found that despite the capital of 1 billion. BGN, which is effectively imported, is funded only one investment project and everything else is covered by loans. This is why this mega water holding was made in May last year, which is quite strange, and this is a year's existence of the company in question. It is therefore important for us to clarify: what are the financial results by the end of 2021; what is the profit or loss we are worried about of this holding; what are the results; have Inhouse orders been made, as we have seen in other sectors, and if they are made, at what value. As of May 2021, it became clear from the hearing in question that 7% of the capital of this mega water holding company was practically spent. However, what was the result by the end of 2021? Now is the time for these major issues to be audited, to clarify them so that we can start clean and clear. One such megastructure is created with claims for investment and we ask them: what investments did you make? They say, as of May, it's an investment. We ask: if in one year you made an investment, by the end of 2021 how many investments were financed by this mega water holding company? What's the point of him? Does that make sense? Will it lead to improvement of the infrastructure in Bulgaria or is this structure designed only to cover losses? If that is the goal, ladies and gentlemen, that is not a good goal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u24	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u25	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, Mr. Ganev, in answer to your three questions. On the first one, according to the individual report as of 30 September 2021, prepared in accordance with the regulatory requirements, the financial result of the Bulgarian Water Holding is a loss of 944 thousand. lv. That's the condition we're finding him in. On the second question, the Bulgarian Water Holding did not award orders of the type Inhouse. To the third question about the part of the capital being paid, I answer historically consistently how it happened. By Decree No 7 of 22 January 2020, the Council of Ministers approved amendments to the budget of the MRB for 2020 amounting to 1 billion. BGN intended for the establishment of a single shareholder company with state participation in the capital. The funds, receipts and payments of the company are included in the system of a single account and in the system of electronic budgetary payments known as the SBERA. In accordance with art. 156 of the Public Finance Act by order and time limits set by the Minister of Finance for the purposes of reporting and statistics on public finances, the funds and operations of the company shall be included and reported in the consolidated fiscal programme as foreign funds, while maintaining the financial autonomy of the company and in the management of the cash. On the date of the entry of the Bulgarian Water Holding company in the Commercial Register and in the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities, the entire capital of the company was deposited to the Registry Agency and after its entry the funds of the raising bank account were transferred immediately for storage on the foreign funds account of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The funds of the company are spent in compliance with the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises, the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Public Enterprises and the Statute of the Bulgarian Water Holding in order and time limits set by the Minister of Finance and under the Agreement concluded with the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. As of January 10th this year, the amount of equity of the spent and available funds of the Bulgarian Water Holding Company is as follows: own capital 1 billion. 40 million. And 741 thousand. BGN, including cash, 1 billion, a contribution of fixed tangible assets and long-term intangible assets, 2 million. And 995,000. lv.; non-cash contribution ownership of shares on water operators............................................................................................ And 746 thousand. lv. The total expenditure to date is 107 million. 483 thousand. And BGN 397.5. In order to increase the capital of the subsidiaries by money, 32 million were spent. And 580 thousand. BGN, including for "Water Supply and Sewerage" JSC, for the town of Dobrich, for the water supply and sewerage of Sliven and for the statutory capital of the established subsidiary of the company "Energy Group" Ltd. 1 million. lv. The loan granted amounted to a total of 71 million. And 721,000. BGN, of which investment is 7 million. and 806 thousand. BGN, for stabilization and repayment of liabilities BGN, for payments for main activity 3 million. And 182 thousand. BGN, and currently available cash is 892 million. 516 thousand. And 602 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u26	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Come in for a cue, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister Karadjov, thank you very much for the answer, but he's got a mind of his own. Really paid-up capital of 1 billion. lv. plus other things, a total of billion and 40 million, of which there are no and 40 have gone to fill out............................................................................................... lv. from a billion dollars in more than a year. It seems to me that the mountain is on fire, and so far she's given birth not even to a frog, but a tadpole. No, not to mention a mouse. Whether it is possible to rethink this approach, we set aside billions and then we start scratching whether they are doing any work for society or not. Perhaps there is some other form of spending of this Bulgarian public money that one billion will really lead to better supply and sewerage for a number of Bulgarian communities around the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u28	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u29	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ganev and Mr. Dimitrov, I just want to make the following point that for investments there are not 7 but about 70 million, but this does not change the meaning of what you said. Indeed, against the backdrop of a billion, who has been sleeping for the second year in the holding, not much has been done. At the same time, the holding company in some way assists not only these companies in money, but also by providing technical and other assistance to them in order to be able to participate in European programmes in which we have allocated funds and by whose means there is actually a much greater volume of investment. If you ask me this question, including in writing, in order for the figures to remain with you, you will see that both the investments made and the expected investments are significantly higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u30	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Denitsa Nikolova on integrated territorial investment in the South Eastern Planning Region. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u31	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today I would like to draw attention to the main function of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, namely this is the implementation of regional policy in the country and that is precisely in this regard my question has been formulated. Within the framework of the future cohesion package to be implemented within the territory of Bulgaria, integrated territorial investments are envisaged, which will receive their funding from the European Union under the General Regulation. In this direction, to a small extent, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has carried out a reform that is related to a complex solution to territorial and local problems precisely through opportunities for integrated territorial investment, and my question today, Mr. Minister, is precisely in this regard. Under the Regional Development Act, we have strategic documents that form the implementation of regional policy, and that is why my focus is: at what stage is the official adoption by the Council of Ministers of the developed and prepared draft Integrated territorial strategy for the Southeastern region for planning the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms Nikolova, the projects of the six integrated territorial strategies for developing level 2 planning regions, including those of integrated territorial strategies for the development of the South East region, are currently in the process of carrying out an environmental assessment procedure. In fulfilling the requirements of the Ordinance on the conditions and procedures for carrying out an environmental assessment of plans and programmes adopted by Decree of the Council of Ministers No 139 of 24 June 2004, as amended in the Official Journal of the European Union, pk. 70 of 7 August 2020 I inform you that in September 2021, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works provided the Ministry of Environment and Water with six requests for a final opinion on an environmental assessment model according to Annex No 5 of the Environmental Assessment Regulation. Requests for an environmental assessment shall be for an opinion on environmental assessment reports submitted electronically and in paper form with the applications of the integrated territorial development strategy projects of the six level 2 planning regions. They have been imported into the Ministry of Interior by means of official letters, paying the public fees due under art. 1, para. 5 of the fees rate. After one month a new letter has been sent to the MOEW requesting information on the duration of these final opinions by the MOEW on the environmental assessment reports of the projects for the Integrated Territorial Development Strategy of Level 2 planning regions. So far, we haven't received an answer to that question. The letter also states that the delay in the development of these documents, part of which is also the environmental evaluation procedure, is reflected in the mechanism for carrying out the state regional development policy. The Ministry of Environment and Water is also informed that, given that the Integrated territorial strategy for the development of level 2 planning regions will play the role of integrated territorial strategies in the implementation of the new integrated territorial approach, the delay in the approval of the documents is also a risk for the launch and implementation of the new programme. The integrated territorial development strategies have already undergone a public consultation procedure and after receiving final opinions from the MOEW, the other steps of the procedure will be implemented until they are adopted in accordance with the regulations. The ITSR projects of the Level 2 planning regions, including the South East region's ITSR, will be discussed and agreed in the Regional Policy Council established by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, and will go through an interdepartmental coordination procedure in accordance with the Council of Ministers' Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u34	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u35	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I cannot be satisfied with your answer, because at the stage to which GERB came out of the country's management March, these integrated territorial strategies were in the same step as we see them today. Unfortunately, what I have heard from you as an answer, namely some type of lack of communication between the two ministries, cannot be trusted by anyone on the territory of the country, because all integrated territorial investments and all the billions we expect from the European Union related to the country's development are actually blocked by an interinstitutional lack of communication obviously for the adoption of these documents. I pay attention to you today because it will indeed block the possibility of implementing any operational programme in the country, including the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. So my request is to find time and opportunities as a regional minister to draw attention to all your colleagues, including from sectoral departments, for the maximum speedy adoption of these integrated territorial strategies, because they include all the strategically important investment processes of the country in terms of infrastructure for the next seven years. On the other hand, on the territory of Burgas it is in the integrated territorial strategy of the Southeastern region that some of the most important investments are planned to develop this area, namely: the development of industrial zones, the four-band access to small and medium-sized settlements in the district, as well as the Multiprofile Children's Hospital. All important investments for people who, unfortunately, will not be able to be made if we do not have the strategic documents for this. If you want to be a successful minister, really do your best to pay attention to the fact that regional policy is the one that must be implemented by this ministry, and this is not the Ministry of Roads and Waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Nikolova, I cannot disagree with you on the possibility of integrated territorial development strategies, as well as their importance for this to continue funding under operational programmes for the development of the six regions, especially for the region for which you raise the issue, namely the Southeastern region with the centre of Burgas. At the same time, I can't help but notice that these integrated strategies of the six regions were introduced in September 2021, when I think, perhaps by mistake, you said that they had not moved since, so to speak, February GERB left power, but that is not true because they were moved, they came out of the Ministry of Regional Development and entered the Ministry of Regional Development. What I can make as a commitment to you, and I believe that this is my job, is to consult personally with the Minister of Environment and Water and to make sure that they return to us and be processed in the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u38	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Next is a question from MP Krum Zarkov about the attitude of the new government and the deadlines for the construction of the highway Ruse. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u39	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, you are yet another minister who will have to be responsible for this time - vital for the whole region, and in particular for Ruse. For the last time, we discussed it here with Minister of Service Violeta Komitova on our initiative in a meeting on 20 August 2021. From your predecessor's reply it became clear that the project is divided into sections as follows: Ruse We also learned that in December 2020, a procurement contract was carried out for designers for technical projects, the same being worth 1 million. lv. for each of the said sections and the funding is planned to come under the Programme of Transport Communication 2021 "2027." For realistic deadlines Minister Komitova pointed out the beginning of the work in 2022, i.e. this year, and their completion in 2027. In view of the extreme importance of this infrastructure project and the fact that your government has not yet been able to formally take an opinion on its attitude, I ask you this question and I also hope you will tell me, our colleagues and the Russians: is it possible to optimize the deadlines set by Minister Comitova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u40	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Karadjov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u41	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, the construction of Ruse Motorway is an important infrastructure project, as you pointed out, the preparation of the work of which continues. With its implementation will ensure far better transport connectivity between North and South Bulgaria and will improve the transport service of international and internal traffic, as well as increase traffic safety, as transit traffic will be taken out of the settlements. It is not a coincidence that the section of Byala Ruse is led as a part of death with one of the highest concentrations of accidents in the country. In order to stage the construction of the Ruse Motorway with a total length of 132.84 km, the construction is divided into three sections: Ruse "White and crossing with road I-5 Ruse "White, 40 km in length, around the town of Byala precisely to take the traffic from the settlement, crossing with road I-3 Byala "Pleven" station, 35 km in length, and the third Byala "Veliko Tarnovo" road crossing with road I-5 Veliko Tarnovo "Gabrovo" with a length of 57.2 km. Currently, the project of a detailed development plan is located in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for consideration and adoption by the National Expert Council on a structure of the territory and regional policy. Following its approval and its entry into force, the estrangement procedure will start under the provisions of the State Property Act. Only as an example will I give that such procedures for similar lengths of highway usually take about a year. With regard to the public procurement of contractors for the construction of the technical project and construction of two separate positions in the Ruse section "White from km 0+400 m to km 40+640 m and for the tour of the town of Byala from km 40+640 m to km 76+40 m, the Commission's work continues. An evaluation of the tenders received is currently being carried out. Upon completion of the Commission's work, the appointment of a contractor for the respective position and the submission of the required documents by the designated contractor will be subject to the signing of the contracts for the execution of engineering. In the event that the decisions to appoint a contractor for the position concerned are not appealed, we plan the conclusion of the contracts in May 2022 and the completion of the construction in March 2028 for the section of Ruse......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We're predicting ground security for both stations. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My time is up, or I'll give you some extra information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u42	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Zarkov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u43	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I understand from your answer that the government appreciates the importance of the road and that's good. You in the back will continue the procedure, but I would like to draw attention to the deadlines. Yes, Ruse "White" is one of the deadliest areas, and many people have said that, but I don't know if we understand what that means in practice. I am going to try to tell you because I asked your colleague a question, the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov, in the summer of this year and asked him: according to the Ministry of Interior, what happened on this segment between 2017 and August 2021. In this period, 641 traffic accidents occurred, 252 people were injured, 26 people died. The account shows that this means that every three days there is a car accident, every week there is an injured and every two months death. I say this to give you an idea of you and the colleagues who will work on the road, what it means every week and every month for this project, which was promised in the distant 2009. That's why I'm going to follow your ass carefully. Naturally, your response will be stenographed and printed and we will monitor very closely the implementation of the deadlines. I urge you not to waste a minute of your time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u44	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. For the doppelganger? [[Reply.]] Okay. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev about the lack of water in Dobrich region. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! The problem with drinking water in Northeastern Bulgaria is extremely serious. There are rarely dams, more often it is mined with deep drillings, which require a lot of electricity and respectively electric pumps. For this reason, and because the losses are very large in the old pipes, it is evidently possible to learn this now from the minister's reply, part of the waterworks in these special times with the higher price of electricity, that they have decided to save money. I received a signal some time ago from residents of several good villages: the goalkeepers, Samuilovo, Eagle mound, Vladimirovo and Bdintsi. I went to a place to check and it turns out that for months people have either no water at all, or they have one or two hours a day, or the pressure is extremely low. At first glance, this is not some problem that is unique to the country, but with several of them we started, we did a check on the routes that are the main plumbing, and it turns out there are no leaks, no accidents, and the pumping station barely operates the pumps themselves. In this regard, I cannot imagine that in 2022 we will be in a situation where Bulgarian settlements will not have drinking water for months at all, not to mention the pandemic situation. My question to you, Mr. Minister, is: have checks been carried out in Dobrich district and the above-mentioned settlements for lack of drinking water and therefore what has been found to be the cause of the problem and is there evidence of a purposeful failure of electric pumps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u46	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u47	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirchev, straight to the point, as they say, directly. Checks have been carried out and no malicious water failure has been detected in order to save electricity. Such a violation, personally, I would treat as terrorism, and in no way would I allow it from here on, but the checks did not confirm that anyone has stopped the pumps. To be honest with you, there is a water source that is very old and with a compromised opportunity to water supply the area, and is currently working on finding a new water source. That is why, as you said: barely, that is, with reduced pressure the water is fed, and the other reason is that the net in Dobrichko is extremely old and gives many defects. And now I'm going to read you the detailed answer, but that's my opinion on the background check. The administrative district of Dobrich comprises 215 settlements in eight municipalities: Balchik, General Toshevo, Dobrich, Dobrichka, Kavarna, Krushare, Tervel and Shabla. The district is characterized by the low density and the trend for permanent reduction of residents. Water infrastructure in Dobrich district is outdated and in poor technical condition. The water for drinking-bit water is extracted entirely with pumps from underground sources at a very high depth, therefore a significant part of the operating costs of companies are for electricity. In relation to the question you have asked about water supply problems in Dobrich region, including the villages of the Vratari, Samuilovo, Orlova mound, Vladimirovo and Bdintsi, I inform you: the villages are located in the territory of Dobrich municipality. In the last few months the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has received only three signals from the same person concerning the water supply problem of the village of Vladimirovo. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has requested information on the case from the Association for Water Supply and Sewerage of the Separated Area, served by the VIK Dobrich AD and by the Water and Water Operator. With regard to the villages of the gatekeepers, Samuilovo, Orlova Mogila and Бдинци MRRB has not been notified until now of an impaired water supply. The plumbing from the pumping station to the tank of the village of Vladimirovo was replaced by The company was able to replace an area of 800 m, but for the remaining 3700 m funding was sought. Meanwhile, work is being done to fix the problem by regulating the pressure. Behind this phrase is actually this reduced pressure and processing the connections in the tank so that the water enters with its own pressure, which significantly reduces the frequency of accidents. "ViK Dobrich" JSC has taken measures to explore and include it in the water supply system, but the procedures for granting a permit for water use and establishment of a sanitary zone take longer. After taking these actions in VIK Dobrich AD, there have been no signals from the residents of the localized villages for lack of water supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u48	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Mirchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u49	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. By chance or not, after I was there and we did this check and I sent the question to you, these people have had water for ten days. From the talks with them, I will ask you to do a detailed check on the very Vik Dobrich JSC, as I also met with officials in the town of Dobrich, obviously there is some problem with the management of the VK. People are dissatisfied, there was also a protest, and they have closed roads. There's obviously a serious problem. They claim that their problems start from the moment when Vik Dobrich JSC starts to remotely control the pumping station itself. Until then, technicians from the villages themselves had access to it and regulated when to stop, when to let go and so on. That is why my request is for a really detailed check and to see the management of Vik Dobrich JSC whether there are any problems in this direction. Thank you very much for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u50	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirchev, I saw your movie on Facebook and I think I saw it online and at the same time you broadcast it, I talked to the CEO of the water holding company and asked him to give me a reference on the water stops. It turns out that the moment you made that finding, in fact, the accidents were two weeks before that day. So it is normal that you had signals about these accidents and the stops, which I have read you the detailed answer to, but I assure you that two weeks before the pressure you found, I have explained to you why this emergency measure is being taken, since then dates non-stopping water and continues to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u52	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Rositsa Kirova about permissions for construction of bridge facilities at km 19, km 21 and km 24 from the road of the speed road Vidin "Botevgrad." Here you go, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question is related to the construction of the facilities on the road of the speed road Vidin "Botevgrad" and in particular at km 10+346, 21+146 and 24+730 located on the territory of Mezdra municipality, Vratsa district. These bridge facilities were excluded from the scope of the construction permit, which was issued and published on 12 May 2021. Additional coordination procedures have been carried out for them which have been completed. My astonishment is that there were no building permits issued at the time I submitted your question in the public register of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and these facilities are extremely important for two reasons: The first reason is: they are part of the only possible tour of the route Botevgrad, which is currently being built. The deadline for completion of the construction will be delayed if these facilities are not allowed and are not built within the time limit so that the route can be used. You know that there are construction installation activities that are extremely difficult to traffic. The importance of my question, in my opinion, is determined, first of all, by the lack of safety in movement on this section at the moment,... precisely because of construction activities, and because of the extremely busy traffic that we have been watching over the past five years. You noted in the Committee on Regional Development and Public Works that you are aware of the importance of building infrastructure for the development of each region. In fact, this is the first and main prerequisite. Therefore, the construction of the road Vidin Botevgrad is extremely important for the Northwestern region, but it is also important for the development of a huge part of our country, and it is important for all Bulgarian citizens. So I hope that you will answer my question and do your best if these building permits are not issued for any objective reason, that this will happen so that there may be no delay in the construction of Botevgrad, Mezdra, which we are at least aware that all legal procedures have been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kirova, the question you are raising is really important and it is important for this reason, because in the initial design of the objects you have mentioned, it is missed to find that these bridge facilities do not meet the safety levels that are placed for already rehabilitated and enlarged as an opportunity to carry traffic. Therefore, emergency activities are started in the construction process, but these emergency activities are also subject to drawing, i.e. technical design, and a building permit, respectively. They move and will not delay the construction of these facilities, which has not stopped. And now I'm going to read you the more detailed answer: The technical project for the site: main repair rehabilitation of road III-161 Riberkovo. shuti dol Botevgrad, km 0 to km 33 + 40 m has been prepared according to a design assignment since March 2017. The aim of the project is to restore and improve transport performance and wearability of the pavement of the third-class road to provide conditions for safe movement and good drainage of the road. The division passes through two districts of Vratsa from km 0 to km 8 + 750 m and Sofia from km 8 + 750 to km 33 + 0.40 m. Initially, the bridge facilities at km 19, 21 and 24 are excluded from the project due to the assessment that their condition allows them only to be repaired on an ongoing basis, which does not require the approval of a project or the granting of a building permit. On 5 May 2021 a construction permit was granted for an object: major repair rehabilitation of road III-161 Riberkovo However, when performing the construction and installation works on the site, the designer examined the bridges and found the need to carry out emergency emergency major repairs to maintain the crossing power and to secure the movement. In relation to art. 195, para. 2 of the Law on Construction in the Area, the designer has prepared an opinion recommending the use of the work projects for the main repair of the three facilities, submitted with the whole set of design documentation for road III-161, provided to the builder for emergency implementation. According to the provisions of art. 148, para. 6 of the ECT Construction Papers shall be compiled during the emergency and recovery work or after their implementation and transmitted to the authority of the competent authority for approval. In view of this, it was necessary to issue permits from the Baseinova Directorate for the use of a water site issued on 10 September 2021 and a complex report of 12 October last year. In this regard, the issue of building permits for bridge facilities is in the stage of operation and they are declared in accordance with art. 148, para. Art. 6 and art. 154 of the LU, namely the completion of the building permit for the large site with the part for the three bridge facilities. This procedure is currently underway, but it does not slow down work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u56	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u57	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov, for your answer. I understand that the procedure is ongoing as the information I have available to you in the detailed question that I have submitted in writing is that these permits and concerted ones have already been completed for the bridge facilities. Maybe that's why I should expect construction permits to be issued as soon as possible. Because it is really extremely important that this construction be done not only in time, in time and quality, according to the requirements of the legislation, but also in line with this situation of extremely busy traffic at the moment. The winter environment is even heavier, so I am counting on these building permits to be issued as soon as possible and the builder can actually proceed as quickly as possible. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. For the doppelganger? I won't. That concludes the questions to Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions for Minister Georgi Gokov. The first question will be from the MP Denitsa Sacheva on the action of measure 60/40 in support of job retention. Here you are, Mrs. Sacheva, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, since the start of the state of emergency in Bulgaria, since its introduction in March 2020, a number of measures have started to act aimed at helping businesses and maintaining jobs, with the biggest initiative in this direction being the 60/40 measure. Under this measure, as is well known, more than 300,000 jobs have been retained within a period of year and a half. Since the beginning of July, rather with a retroactive date from June 2021, new rules for this measure have been in place, namely 60% of the employee's insurance income is paid at a 40% decrease in turnover and 50/50 of the employee's insurance income is paid respectively, such as 50 of the state, 50 at the expense of the employer. We have not received any public information so far on what the results of this measure are. And that is precisely why my question to you is: to give us information about exactly the period when the changes started to work. First, for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2021, i.e. for the first half of 2021, and then for the second half of 2021. And let us know what is the analysis of the effectiveness of this measure after its changes and how will it continue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, the reserved jobs under the measure 60/40 for the period from 1 January 30 June 2021 are 207 thousand. and 407 and the funds paid are 723 million. And 400,000. lv. With the change in the measure from 1 July 2021, which entered into force from 1 June 2021, the requirements for reducing sales revenue to provide support are differentiated by 40% for obtaining support from 60 to 100 and 30% for obtaining support in the amount of 50 to 100 of the insurance income and from the insurance contributions due to the employer of each employee. Between 1 July and 31 December 2021, the reserved jobs were 150 926 and the spent funds were 324 million. And 700,000. lv. The calculations show that the reduction in the funds paid in the second half of 2021 compared to the first is around 55% and the decrease in the number of jobs reserved is 27%. Thus, the change introduced improves the effectiveness of the measure. The changes in the measure are conditional on the relief of anti-epidemic measures, the restoration of the economic activity of companies and the reduction of the share of enterprises with lower revenues compared to the previous month, according to the business research of the National Statistical Institute. At the same time, employment growth on a quarterly basis was reported in the second and third quarter of 2021 and a decline in registered unemployment on a monthly basis since February 2021 and on an annual basis from March 2021. The measure continues to apply in the context of a recovering economy. According to data from the National Statistical Institute in the third quarter of 2021, gross domestic product increased by 4.6% compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The measure 60/40 supports the maintenance of employment of employees in enterprises with reduced income in the most affected sectors of the economy in the country, such as restaurant, hotel, transport, retail trade, cultural, sport and entertainment activities, the processing industry and others. The measure supports about 13 thousand employers.. to keep their staff and to continue to work. As a result of the implementation of the measure, unemployment growth is also limited. According to data from the Employment Agency on 10 January 2022, the number of unemployed persons registered in the employment offices is 162 895 and the level of registered unemployment is 4.96%. In comparison, 229 925 unemployed were registered in the labour bureaus in 2021. The decrease on an annual basis was by 67 030 persons or by 29.2%. Business support continues in 2022 as the measure has been extended to the end of February this year. According to the forecasts for providing support for the January period, February 2022 will require about 120 million. lv. Taking into account the funds of BGN 761 paid to one person per month on average for the period August, October 2021, it can be expected that in the first two months of 2022 more than 75 thousand workers and employees will remain employed on average. Following the end of February 2022, taking into account the epidemiological situation in the country and the adoption of the state budget and the state social security budget for 2022, the measure will be extended in accordance with the European Commission's temporary framework for State aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line, Mrs. Sacheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you, Mr. Gokov, for the comprehensive answer you gave with specific information. It makes it clear that we still have a reduction in the support that is being enjoyed at the moment, given the new conditions. At the same time, I would like to point out to you that during the time when this measure was made as a design and acted, it had to fight only and only with the consequences of COVID-19. At the moment, however, we have galloping electricity prices, gas prices, production materials, so surely what is happening ultimately also leads to an increase in prices of the goods and services themselves. From this point of view in the future, I would like to point out to you that, in practice, if producer prices have increased by 31% on average, there is no way for this growth to apply the measure since the beginning of 2022 because companies will not be able to show such a decrease in turnover. I would be delighted if January and February were to meet the forecasts for the preservation of an average of 75 thousand jobs, but I believe that this is more impossible at this stage and that is why I would recommend that you discuss as soon as possible a new design of the measure with employers' organisations, but therefore there are very clear rules on how long this support will last. Because you see that apart from the pandemic, we have to fight other adverse conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Mr. Minister, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, thank you for your recommendations. Yes, the measure was extended for the months of January and February only for such a period, precisely at the insistence of employers. Otherwise, we could have extended the funds by the end of June until the temporary framework of the European Commission for State aid was also available. On the part of the employers' organizations there is serious pressure if I can so determine their actions to change the design of the measure. We're having conversations with them. There must be a discussion on the design of the measure in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. But you, Mrs. Sacheva, know that this change in the design of the measure, not to mention with these modern words, the design of a measure means the conditions for receiving these aids, goes through a notification by the European Commission. And I am very worried that even if we negotiate within the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation some change in the design of the measure, in this granting of the aid, it will be expressed in reducing the rate of decline. We will not be able to notify it to the European Commission to take effect by June. Of course, if things develop favorably in the country and in the world with a cod epidemic, the measure will have run out of action, but if they continue in a negative direction to develop, new funding must be considered and really change the measure. And as far as galloping prices are concerned, it is true that this coincides with a species of crisis and the aid is precisely for this. It is unlikely that the European Commission would allow us the increasing price of energy carriers to be a motive for supporting this measure 60-40, because it is intended for something else. However, I would like to assure you that there will be a fact of support in the energy sector of employers, companies, businesses, which I will not be committed to introducing to the people's representation. I think a separate question has been put to the Minister of Energy and could give you a more detailed overview of these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a question by the National Representative Stefan Mirev concerning the closure of the Kalugerovo branch at the Department of Labour. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, by order of the Executive Director of the Employment Agency, the activities of the Kalugerovo branch of the Department of Labour and Labour and Pazardzhik are suspended, providing that the care of unemployed persons from the municipality of Lesichovo is carried out in accordance with the so-called exported services. In order for a service to exist to a labour bureau, there are specific criteria that I will brief you with. An exported job is created where there are no less than 50 registered persons seeking employment in the previous nine months. For the establishment of a mobile desk, it is required to serve at least 100 persons. Notice, a subsidiary is designated in the presence of no less than 250 unemployed persons seeking employment. In the past 2021, there were more than 250 unemployed persons registered in the Lesichovo branch every month, with the lowest number in September " 257," and in May their number reached 323 unemployed persons. These figures show that the subsidiary meets the criterion of number of unemployed persons to be served monthly. There is no economic logic for employees of the Directorate of Labour and Labour and Pazardzhik to travel to the village of Kalugerovo and to the jobs exported in the villages of Borimechkovo and Tserovo, all the more so that according to the regulations an employee is expected to serve 25 unemployed people seeking work for one working day. In the presence of 40 or more persons, the same shall be served by a minimum of two employees. Does this mean that there will be an increase in the number of the Directorate-General of the Labour Office " Pazardzhik"?! At the same time, an agreement is proposed to the Municipality of Lesichovo, according to which it must provide transport to the employees of the Department of Labour.............................................................................................................................................................. This will additionally burden the Municipality of Lesichovo. My question is: what ordered Kalugerovo's subsidiary to the Department of Labour and Labour and Pazardzhik to be closed, provided that its existence meets and does not violate the regulatory requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u68	Thank you, Mr. Mirev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u69	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirev, the closure of the Kalugerovo branch is related to the assessment of the effectiveness of the work and quality of the services provided. The actions taken were the result of, first of all, a small number of registered unemployed persons served at the Kalugerovo branch. Out of a total of approximately 260 monthly registered by the municipality of Lesichovo, nearly 180 persons are served in the branch itself, while the other persons, making up about 27%, are served by the two exported jobs in the village of Borimechkovo and the village of Tserovo. In practice, the service is carried out by an employee who could not provide the full range of services that customers receive, served by a team of employees at the Bureau of Labour, including both labor intermediaries and experts with specific functions such as: a case manager, psychologist, mediator, consultant and so on. Secondly, the lack of jobs announced in the subsidiary.. e. in the active period January.......................................................................................... On the basis of an analysis of the effectiveness of the services provided, actions have been taken to optimize the quality improvement. By order of the Executive Director of the Employment Agency, Kalugerovo, Lezichovo Municipality, is closed and its activity is transformed into a mobile labour office. The new labour organisation does not deprive job seekers and employers of access to services. Through the assistance of experts at the Bureau of Labour, they will receive more and more diverse services both present and remote through the electronic services of the Employment Agency. There will be increased opportunities for unemployed people to participate in activities in the preparation and selection of personal skills and attitudes for looking for work presented to an employer, and others. Job seekers and employers will continue to be serviced at exactly defined days and time intervals through the mobile labour office, which will be held at the site of the closed subsidiary several times a month. They will be supported on the ground by a team of staff providing specialized services, including a psychologist and a case manager. In addition, a team from the Directorate-General of the Labor Office will serve both jobs exported in the village of Borimechkovo and the village of Tserovo, which were served by an expert of the branch. After the conclusion of an agreement between the mayor of the municipality of Lesichovo and the director of the Directorate of Labour and Labour, Pazardzhik, the unemployed and employers will be served not by one employee but by a team of the Labour Bureau. The current practice of providing services to employers and unemployed persons for the use of preferences and inclusion in various programmes and promotional measures for training and employment, as well as support for maintaining employment in the context of the current crisis, will continue to take place in the Directorate of the Labour Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u70	Thank you. Mr. Mirev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u71	Mr. Minister, I thank you for your answer, but solving the issue of serving the unemployed from the municipality of Lesichovo in the way you have put it in your response is at least unacceptable. Your response is not satisfactory for them because, on the one hand, they must comply with the days on which the exported services are to be offered and, on the other, they must comply with the deadlines for their registration as unemployed. Again, I call on you to reconsider this decision because the closure of a working subsidiary and replacing it with a service rendered is of no use to anyone, and I do not believe it will improve the quality of the service itself. Each service is offered in order to be in the comfort of the users themselves, isn't it?! It is not to be ignored and the fact that the Municipality of Lesichovo has provided to the Department of Labour and Labour and the Office of Pazardzhik, Kalugerovo branch, a fully renovated and equipped space in which the documentation of the unemployed is still kept. And I hope I am not a bad prophet, but the severe economic crisis in which the country is located will force many employers from the municipality of Lesichovo to cut staff in the name of their own survival. In this case, workers will need assistance in finding employment not only on certain days of the month, but on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u72	Thank you, Mr. Mirev. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mirev, I do not expect you to be satisfied with the answer, because any closure of the structure is accompanied by resistance, especially by local authorities. And when a Member of the National Assembly is a representative of those people who live on the ground, it is logical to ask such a question. However, I would like to point out to you that what you are saying cannot answer the truth in its part that people will not receive better services. The activities of the labour mediators shall not be exhausted by the public's popular periodically signing at the labour bureaus. Labour intermediaries have quite other functions and each client should be able to receive an individually oriented set of services, including general and specialised services, individual and group forms of interaction between a job-seeker and employer. To these people, that sounds... There are very few announced jobs there, but we, for example, thus deprive them of complex services. I do not want to make an analogy, but I will do it in front of you if you are familiar with education in small settlements there are so-called mixed classes where children from first, second, third and fourth classes study together. This is done in order to preserve the school, to preserve the ability of people to go to this school. But I say, and the public is of that opinion, without expressing their opinion that this way children do not receive quality education. I say this to make some analogy with the fact that work in a large part of the affiliates is limited only to signing, which will provide them with the status of unemployed person and with this status they will apply for other services, in most cases for social benefits. The work of the labor bureaus and the entire Employment Agency is not in this. The work of the Employment Agency is to be a mediator between employers and unemployed persons. Once again, you are there on the ground, on the ground. Listen to them! Their true motives for this are more than what they tell you, because the quality of the services that are provided to these people will be increased, that is for sure. Otherwise I understand again, the motives. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And just one more word, I'm sorry. In previous cases, branch offices have been closed in the history of the Employment Agency without making exported jobs, which makes it extremely difficult for people from small towns to travel, it is cost-related, but this is not the case either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With this your participation in today's parliamentary control ends, this was the last question for you. Thank you again. Now a question to the Minister of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov. He is from the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev on discrimination against chronically ill children who are not included in the exceptions for wearing masks. Here you are, Mr. Ganev, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u75	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Denkov, before I read the question I asked you, pay attention, on 14 December 2021. A month later, for reasons unknown to me, only now has the question of an answer been allocated. I would like to highlight something extremely important. Unlike some Western European countries in Bulgaria, strict measures and green certificates continue to be imposed for the children. Unlike countries such as England, where children enter uncontrollably, there are no restrictive measures, there are no masks, there is absolutely nothing, this is not the case in Bulgaria. In this regard, it is my question, which concerns not only the private case, which I will set out as an example, but also many other children. What's this about? Bojana Atanasova is a student in the eighth grade in the fourth language school in Varna. From the beginning of the school year, parents have deposited a request to the principal of the school for their daughter to attend school without a protective mask. The request is accompanied by a medical opinion from a specialist doctor showing that the child has bronchial asthma on an allergic basis, accompanied by allergic rhinitis, with a prescription not to wear a mask as this may lead to complications. The same diagnosis is indicated in the health card issued by the child's personal physician and is provided to the classroom supervisor. After repeated conversations with the classroom manager, school principal, school psychologist and other involved students, Bojana is admitted to school provided she sits next to a window that is necessarily open. At the moment the temperatures are negative, the child has to sit next to an open window. I'm gonna keep asking. The children go to attendance training at the beginning of the month. On 2 December 2021, the presence training of Bojana was restored. It's not allowed because it's not wearing a mask. By outgoing letter No 09-259 of 2 December 2021, the principal of the high school informed the parents that Bojana did not fall within the circle of persons eligible for an exception from wearing a protective mask and had three options: to be present with a mask, distance training in the electronic environment, the so-called ORES, or to enter the circle of persons eligible for an exception. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Sorry, I'm just finishing up. I have a few sentences.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u76	Here you go, Mr. Ganev, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u77	Regarding the third option, children with special educational needs include children with chronic diseases, which lead to several specific needs in their education. Presenting medical opinions and a health-prophylactic card, parents have met the requirements for this third option. In addition, orders that introduce a number of anti-epidemic measures for children suffer from numerous vices. In essence, they violate laws that are at a higher hierarchy of regulations, a number of civil rights are limited, respectively, to students. Specifically, the texts by which citizens are obliged to wear protective masks contradict fully the Law on restriction of wearing clothing, concealing and concealing the person. [[The President signaled Tsoncho Ganev that he had exceeded time.]] It should also be noted that in the previous guidelines and speeches of the ministers of the health of children with asthma, special attention has been given to them and they fall explicitly within the scope of the exceptions. [[the chairman gives Tsoncho Ganev a sign that he has exceeded time]] In view of the above, I ask you to answer the following question: why chronically ill children are forced to wear masks at school and are not exempted from this measure as children with special educational needs. Because Bojana is not allowed to go to school today! Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u78	Mr. Ganev, I note that more than twice of your allowed time was given to you to develop your question. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ganev, in answer to your question, I provide the following information. With my order are established guidelines for training and actions in the context of an emergency epidemic situation in schools and in the centers for special educational support. As regards medical matters, these guidelines follow the previously established guidelines on 8 November 2021, together with the Minister of Health. In Section I, t. 36 of the guidelines exceptions to the requirement to wear a protective mask for a person are allowed in the following cases: in the schoolyard, subject to a physical distance of 1,5 m, for children from pre-school groups during the conduct of pedagogical situations, for early school students from I to IV grade, during school hours, for children and students with special educational needs, where there is established inability to adhere to the wearing of a protective mask and an opinion by a personal or medical doctor certifying this and, lastly, in physical education and sports classes. In addition, these guidelines also include a proposed by the Ministry of Health list of diseases where distance training is recommended due to an established higher risk of COVID-19. The proposed list is indicative and not exhaustive and, at the discretion of the treating physician, a form of training other than the daily one may also be recommended to persons with other diseases not listed. In this list, the Department of Children's Pulmology refers to the disease "World and uncontrolled bronchial asthma" with the clear idea that this could cause a risk to infect the child. In your example, student B.A. is diagnosed with allergic-based Bronchial asthma, accompanied by allergic (allergic), with a prescription not to wear a mask due to the possibility of a complication of its health condition. In this case, the director of the educational institution must comply with the opinion of the personal and the treating physician, proving the inability to wear a mask due to the nature and specific nature of the chronic disease. At the same time, if the student's condition requires a more sparing regime to prevent her from being infected by a species, she may also take advantage of the possibility of taking part in distance training in an electronic environment. In other words, in conclusion, all measures are taken to protect children's health. These measures can be implemented in the school environment and they are consistent, and in many cases imposed by the Ministry of Health, and in other cases the recommendation may be the student to be trained in an electronic environment and we have created the conditions for such training. The example with Great Britain is not directly applicable to Bulgaria as you say, because in Britain vaccination levels are extremely high. I can give many other examples of other countries that take measures, including much more stringent than the measures we take in Bulgaria. So our care besides the attendance training of the children is and will also be their health, and, of course, expert, leading is the role of the Ministry of Health in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u80	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[National Representative Mukaddes Nalbant wants the floor.]] Just to finish the procedure, Mrs. Nalbant. Here's a line, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u81	Mr. Denkov, from your answer I did not understand in the end will Bojana be allowed to study in what form she will begin to study, as at the moment the imperative conditions for children are extremely extreme? Please answer specifically: Will Bojana be admitted, will you order not only this director, but also all other school principals in Bulgaria for these children to comply with the legal frameworks and to be allowed to study, as they want to go to school and are currently not allowed? I ask very much for a specific answer, because not for me, the people who are affected, their children are currently watching and waiting for a specific answer, not to transfer from institution to institution, from director to director, to Minister of Health and Orders. You have complete freedom to point out that for these children, for these cases you can do what ethics allows, and enter school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u82	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u83	Mr. Ganev, you probably weren't listening very carefully. I've answered quite categorically enough. In this case, I repeat the sentence: the director of the educational institution must comply with the opinion of the personal or the treating physician. The principle in all these guidelines is that when there is a medical opinion from a doctor, the school director must comply with this opinion. But we cannot allow medical diagnoses to be placed by parents without any medical education or any other person who does not have the competence to decide what is dangerous and what is not dangerous for the child. Because, once again, the measure with these masks has, among other things, the purpose of protecting to some extent the child concerned. If it enters the class and gets sick, then, when there is a medical basis, the decision for this inclusion in this way in school is the doctor's. Where there is a medical solution, it must be implemented by the institution concerned. So, I say it categorically in this case, when there is a diagnosis, the child should be in class, if that is what the parents and the child themselves want, in the appropriate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u84	Thank you, Minister Denkov. In fact, this was the first and only question for you, so your participation ends in today's parliamentary control. Thank you for that. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Nalbant. [[Mister Nikolai Denkov is leaving the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister and I would like to address you in just a few seconds, honourable Members! Of course, colleague Ganev must have had reason to point to factology with the name of children, but I would like to draw attention to both the President and all colleagues that when we talk about the health of Bulgarian citizens, especially children, we cannot comment and mention their names. I thank Minister Denkov for using only the initials. As a future job in parliament, I urge colleagues not to do so! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Nalbant. The remark was fully relevant, so I also invite colleagues when asking questions, their questions and questions not to contain personal data which are also made available to the public. We are now going to ask the National Representative Elena Guncheva about the emergency anti-epidemic situation and measures. Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva, to present your request to Minister Asena Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister Serbenova! The emergency anti-epidemic situation over the past year and a half has become a permanent one. A number of questions are raised in society that are not clearly answered and therefore citizens cannot make an informed decision about what is happening. In view of this, I would like to ask you the following questions: since the beginning of the announcement of the pandemic, from 11 March 2020 by the WHO, how many Bulgarian citizens have become infected, how much infection has been found, how many cases of reinfection, how many of them have been hospitalised, how many of them have died of the disease, how many autopsyes of the deceased have been made, how many of them with accompanying diseases, how many funds have been given since the beginning of the pandemic so far on clinical pathways for the treatment of COVID-19 in hospitals and how much control over the causes of disease and mortality is being carried out. What is the reason why the WHO issued a specific indication requiring, without performing an autopsy, all deceased who are infected with a coronavirus, to be with a stated cause of death CoVID-19? In this regard, how is the cause of death established without an autopsy in Bulgaria? Were there any cases where relatives of deceased persons would be asked to agree that their deceased relative should be written as sick with COVID-19? Is there any evidence that died from other diseases were listed as deceased or sick with CoVID-19? I believe that these questions are important enough, and I ask you to answer in detail the second part of the questions. I hope for concrete and accurate answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. I'm just making one clarification that according to art. 96 Questions should contain one specific question. You asked a lot of questions. I hope Minister Serbenova will be able to give you a satisfactory answer. Here you are, Mrs. Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u89	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Guncheva, regarding the series of questions on point one of your questions related to the statistics on COVID-19, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the current statistics on morbidity, hospitalizations, mortality from COVID-19, as well as the vaccination process against the disease, the number of vaccinated daily doses are available to all interested parties. The data shall be published on a daily basis on the website of the Unified Information Portal COVID-19, www. Coronavirus.bg, at the Open Data Portal https://data.egov.bg and on the website of the Ministry of Health. The information is generated automatically, with the data coming from the servers of This information shall be completed on a daily basis by both hospital and regional health inspections and by the laboratories concerned. From the beginning of the pandemic until 11 January 2022 787 178 people were diagnosed with COVID-19 and 485 448 of them were identified with a PCR test; 301 730 with a rapid test; 211 249 people were hospitalized and 31 672 died from COVID-19. The re-infection cases registered on 22 December 2021 were 4692. Regarding the question of how infection is established, you should bear in mind that the definition of a confirmed case of COVID 19 has been introduced by the Minister of Health's orders in view of the mandatory registration necessary for the generation of these data. The order is for compulsory registration, reporting and reporting of the disease under Ordinance No 21 of 2005 on the order, registration, reporting and reporting of infectious diseases not only for COVID-19. From the beginning of the pandemic until 22 December 2020, any person meeting certain laboratory criteria shall be considered to be a confirmed case of COVID 19, namely the detection of SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid in clinical samples. From 19 November 2021 to the definition of confirmed case of COVID-19, the presence of SARS-CoV-2 antigen in clinical samples was added. According to the order, the regional health inspection in the territory where a case of COVID-19 has been detected takes the so-called epidemiological action in the study of the diseased and isolation............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The statistical data on the total number of autopsies carried out shall be collected and summarised by the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis on the basis of the annual reports of hospital care institutions for the autopsies carried out therein. The reports do not contain information on the cause of death found during the autopsy, but only the total number of autopsies performed. According to data from the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis in 2020, a total of 3645 autopsies of deceased from various diseases were performed in the country. The data for 2021 shall be processed and published in the first half of this year. Information was requested from the National Health Insurance Fund and according to the Cashier from March 2020 until 30 December 2021. 818 thousand. And BGN 376. for hospital medical care on clinical pathways for the treatment of COVID-19. In relation to the issue of point two, the World Health Organization should issue special guidelines for reporting the death of CIVID-19 should contact Dr. Skender Sila, who has the authority to represent the organization in Bulgaria and give you detailed information on this issue. As regards the question of how to establish a cause of death, it should be borne in mind that the rules and instructions for coding morbidity and mortality in medical and medical statistical documentation are set out in the international statistical classification of diseases and health problems. The application of this classification in Bulgaria is regulated in Ordinance No 42 of 8 December 2004 on the introduction of classification statistical systems for coding diseases and health and medical procedures, and this regulation also establishes a model for a death report indicating the underlying cause of disease and the presence of accompanying diseases, if any. In relation to the last two questions on point two of your inquiry, as the questions were many, I literally have several lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u90	Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u91	Thank you. Information was requested from the Executive Agency, which is the competent authority for the control of the activities of medical institutions, medical activities and the quality of medical care. According to the Agency's inspection records, no evidence has been found of cases where relatives of deceased persons have been forced to agree that their deceased relative has been reported to be sick with COVID-19 or attempts to report deceased from other diseases as deceased or sick with COVID 19. Thank you. Excuse me for the overdue time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u92	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva, for two further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u93	Dear Minister Serbenova, please clarify, since you said that the cause of death was established by laboratory tests and anyone who had antibodies to the CIVID-19, the cause of death was written precisely this disease. Is there any possibility that people died of other diseases, but when they detect antibodies in their blood, it's just cause of death, as recorded in the death reports? I mean, is there any possibility that when people died, not from a horse, but with a horse, the cause of death was specifically indicated by this disease?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Minister Serbenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to quote once again that from the beginning of the pandemic until 22 December 2020, a confirmed case of COVID 19 is considered as meeting the laboratory criteria for the detection of SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid in clinical trials. That means the virus is circulating. Regarding whether there is a possibility, it is clear that the treating physician, of course, indicates the reason. Regarding whether there is an opportunity to quote the death of another disease, or of the CIVID-19, there are two statistics in the National Health Information System of people who died of a horse and people who died with a horse, that is to say, this division of the National Health Information System does so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u96	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva, for expressing your attitude, you have two minutes, if you like? No. Okay. There are no other questions for Minister Serbenova. Thank you for your participation once again. We continue with questions to the Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov. In fact, we have in the first place a question from the National Representative Tsveta Galunova about the need for measures to improve the working conditions in the musical, musical and dance cultural institutes in Bulgaria, the limitations and the requirement for green certificate in the field of culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Atanasov, I am addressing you because of the need for real measures and actions in terms of improving the standard of living for those working in the public and municipal musical dance and musical performance institutes in Bulgaria. Reduced receptions and zero years in secondary and higher schools of musical and dance art are indicative of the potential professional career that has become unattractive for young people. In this regard, I would like to ask you: are you familiar with the petition for a decent pay and improvement of working conditions in the musical, musical and dance cultural institutes in Bulgaria, which is signed by over 1300 people and is entered into your ministry. Is there an opinion of the Ministry of Culture on the proposed measures in the petition and those of them that you, as Minister, would commit to carrying out? Do you intend to assist in accepting higher odds for starting basic monthly remunerations by categories and staff, such as an annex to the sectoral collective service contract, the 2020 Musical Performing Arts, which, according to the petitioners, is necessary in January 2022? Because of the extremely difficult financial situation of employees in the sector appreciate as a very good measure the separation of the Fund from the delegated budget which the Ministry of Culture took at the beginning of the pandemic. Will it continue to operate after the lifting of anti-epidemic measures, the measure for the separation of the Fund "Work pay" from the delegated budget, which the employees in the industry, as we said, appreciated as very good? My second question to you is: what is your opinion on the possession of green certificate by all participants and visitors of indoor events, as well as by the workers...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u98	Mrs. Galunova, I'm sorry, you have the right to ask a question and make it a basic policy. You've asked a few questions so far. You want to include a second question in the only question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u99	As the issues are related, because one of the reasons why the cultural sector is suffering is precisely the restrictive measures imposed by green certificates.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u100	Okay. Here you go. You've got about a minute more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u101	I would therefore like to ask: will you insist on the abolition of the ban on mass events, such as musical and other festivals, gatherings, folklore initiatives and others of such a nature, imposed by the Minister of Health's orders? What measures are planned and what funds from the state budget will be allocated to compensate the losses for the Bulgarian culture in a state of the so-called pandemic by the end of 2022? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u102	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Galunova, regarding your question about the need for measures to improve working conditions in the music institutes, in the musical and stage institutes and the dance cultural institutes in Bulgaria, as well as the limitations and requirements for green certificate, I answer the questions you have asked. Yes, I am familiar with the petition for a decent pay and improvement of working conditions in musical, musical and dance cultural institutes in Bulgaria on 16 December 2021 is registered in the Ministry of Culture. I am aware that the delegated budget system in force for more than 10 years in the state institutions needs to be updated and optimized. This process is not independent and cannot be dealt with without the context of the situation with the Kovid pandemic we are in. All requests of the people supporting the petition are completely understandable and are part of the overall picture of the state of Bulgarian culture. The problems are many and affect all the guilds, which implies careful analysis, assessment and making adequate decisions. My opinion and that of my team is that the decisions that are coming must be, on the one hand, short-term because of the emergency situation with a kind of crisis, but on the other hand, must be refined and part of the National Strategy for Culture, which is an absolute priority. With regard to the adoption of higher odds for starting basic monthly salaries in the sector, I inform you that a change in the current Branshov collective work contract can only be carried out through representatives of trade unions and employers' organizations. This is entirely within their powers and if the parties to it wish to discuss possible changes, then yes, the Ministry of Culture would assist in implementing the negotiation process between trade unions and employers' organisations, as always. And now, as for my opinion on the green certificate, as well as the pandemic, it is strongly in support of the current measures and of all attempts in the world to deal with the crisis. My family and I have been vaccinated. I actually had the opportunity, even if I had a third booster dose a few days ago, and I would invite anyone who had the opportunity to take advantage of it. I would also like to welcome and support all the people who have had the courage to publicly state that they have been vaccinated, including people from your parliamentary group, which I am sure was not easy to state publicly. I welcome them! We believe in science and value health as a high value. In the Ministry of Culture we work in continuous communication with the Ministry of Health and we follow strict regulations from them. Deputy Minister Vesela Kondakova is part of the National Pandemic Committee, which includes representatives of different ministries and spheres in addition to health experts. Representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and other key organizations will be invited to achieve better operationality in the work of the Committee. The participation of Deputy Minister Kondakova will contribute to the entry of timely information with us in introducing stricter anti-epidemic measures or easing them, depending on the epidemiological situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Galunova, for two further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u105	Thank you for your answer, Minister. However, I have not heard any concrete action that would be taken with regard to the crisis in which culture is currently present. I sincerely hope that in this technocratic wave that is flooding us, you will fight for the spiritual values without which we cannot be human. At the moment, the introduction of the green certificate would rather stabilise the status of cultural workers as working poor. The crisis and uncertainty for its workers will continue to exist and deepen more and more if we do not do something. And given the difficult situation, would you clarify what short-term measures you would take to raise the living standards of people in the cultural sector? I would like to say that we are fighting for the revival of Bulgarian spirituality and in our face you will meet support for any idea that is related to the well-being of Bulgaria, but also a sharp criticism of what deprives us of the traditional roots of Bulgarian spirituality. I wish you, within your mandate, to combat the spiritual coldness of the technocratic time in which we live and to build a meaningful relationship with the cultural actors. Once again, I would like you to explain to me in the short term whether you would take something concrete to increase the living standards of cultural workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u107	Thank you. As I said, as far as concrete measures are concerned in the Kovid crisis, I repeat, we fully support the Ministry of Health and what will be resolved together with all the other ministries in the National Pandemic Committee. Thank you very much for your wishes. As for the most recent measures that we would take, the most recent and most important thing to complete is the fight for the 2022 budget, on which we are working hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you wish to be treated, Mrs. Galunova? [[Reply.]] We are going to a question from the National Representative Ivan Totev. Here you go, Mr. Totev. Your question is about a signed Memorandum between the Municipality of Plovdiv and the Ministry of Culture for building a building of Plovdiv Opera.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u109	Mr. Chairman, first on procedure. Neither are we so many people in this room, nor are we being pressed for time, so the coworker, for example, was asking an important question and interrupting it exactly in the second minute?! I mean, a little tolerance. I'll be brief, too, but if I jump the clock in a few seconds...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u110	I give tolerance, Mr. Totev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u111	Thank you in advance, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, again, colleagues! Minister, I wasn't going to ask you a question, because what I'm asking as a question, I've referred to it as a question to your ministry. On December 6, I asked there a question, several times the coworkers called about whether there was an answer and an answer had not been received for more than a month. I therefore allow myself to ask it from the stage, to engage parliamentary time and the attention of colleagues. So look at the administration that you are running, how it works, because the question is still simple, but one month to wait for it there is no need. And it is related to a kind of continuity from the work of the previous Minister of Culture. During a visit to Plovdiv on November 28th last year at a festival called the Young Wine Defile, wrote a Memorandum with the Municipality of Plovdiv. The Memorandum celebrates a long process of designing a concert hall in Plovdiv. The former minister then committed himself, rather said as a complete fact that the budget for 2022 of the Ministry of Culture will set the amount of 9.7 million to be used for reconstruction of the project of a concert hall in Plovdiv. So my question to you was this statement. Is this amount foreseen in the Ministry's budget for budget 2022 because the construction permit was issued and passed on to the Minister of Culture? Again there, in his visit, but in a previous meeting, perhaps at coffee, as the amount is smaller, there with representatives of the Plovdiv Opera House promised and again pledged that the budget of the Ministry of Culture will be set at 300 thousand. lv. for the design of the House of the Plovdiv Opera. So my questions to you were: is this a fact during his speech and, respectively, then and at the present time, because we know that the budget for 2022 is not being prepared now, it has been preparing most likely since August at the Ministry of Culture?! Plus, there was a draft budget submitted for 2022 by the caretaker government, was it in this project? Will you, on the basis of this memorandum signed by the previous minister with the municipality of Plovdiv and on the basis of its public commitments, show continuity and defend, as I have just heard in the reply to the colleague, that you will fight for Budget 2022, will you also fight for these important projects for the city of Plovdiv? Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, thank you for giving me a little more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u112	Thank you for your specific questions, Mr. Totev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Totev, thank you for your specific questions. First, I will answer for the 9.7 million. lv. for repair and reconstruction of a concert hall in Plovdiv. The budget for 2022 of the Ministry of Culture will provide the necessary means for repair and reconstruction of the building of Philharmonic and Opera Plovdiv, amounting to 9.7 million. lv. With an I.V. application. No 21-RZK-784 from 31 August 2021 to the Municipality of Plovdiv the entire project documentation and the comprehensive assessment report for conformity assessment of the project parts were submitted for approval to the main architect of the municipality. The investment project was approved and construction permit No 294 was granted from 15 October 2021 by the main architect of the Municipality of Plovdiv. So in short, yes, that 9.7 million. lv. are set out in the 2022 budget. Regarding the second part of the question, whether it was recorded in the draft budget of the Ministry of Culture the sum of 300 thousand. lv. for a project for a new opera building in Plovdiv, the short answer is no. The Memorandum signed on 28 November 2021 does not have any financial parameters as a commitment of the Ministry of Culture to either Party. This document is an expression of goodwill for the purpose of administrative cooperation in the future of grounds for building a building of the opera in the city of Plovdiv. Under the Memorandum, there are two duties of the Ministry of Culture. First, to join forces with the countries of the Memorandum to launch an investment initiative, design and build an opera building in the city of Plovdiv. Secondly, the Ministry is committed in the presence of the relevant legal prerequisites to work to ensure the financing of the investment initiative in the event of a gradual provision of the building. I mean, I don't know what promises were made at coffee, but they weren't legally paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line, Mr. Totev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u115	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am glad to hear that funds will be set to continue the reconstruction of a concert hall in Plovdiv. That's more than I've heard from you. As for whether the public appearances of the former Minister of Culture correspond to his factual appearances, in the case of the signing of a Memorandum, this is another proof of his whole, I would say mayorship, but sitting in your chair, about what he says in the media, what facts are. That was quite enough for me as an answer. I had an opinion about this guy anyway, but you confirmed it to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u116	Thank you, Mr. Totev. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. We are moving on to a question from the MP Krum Zarkov about the building of the State Opera House Ruse. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Ruse has a long and glorious tradition in opera art. It can be traced until 1891 with the establishment of a Music Society. In the first years of the 20th century in Ruse sound Wagner, Verdi, putting himself in the middle of the century and the opera finds its home as well. It was in an emblematic city building built in 1934, which became a symbol of the city, of its exquisiteness, of its style, of its culture, and became a natural place for opera art in the city of Ruse. At the moment, however, the artists from the State Opera in Ruse cannot use this building. Nearly two years ago, there was a fire on the roof that seriously damaged her. As far as I understand from my conversations with the management of opera and opera artists, insurance funds are starting to repair the roof, but in fact the building needs full reinforcement and improvement, and fire extinguishing has further damaged it. These actions are not in the power of the institution itself. They need the financial assistance of the state and therefore my question to you, Minister, is: is the Ministry of Culture planning the allocation of funds for the preparation and implementation of a project to repair the building of the State Opera Ruse?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u118	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, thank you for this question and I will now proceed to the answer. As a result of all the analyses, current project studies and planned construction and repair works, the Ministry of Culture plans in the current 2022 in its capital programme the allocation of funds for the preparation and implementation of a project for the renovation of the building of the State Opera Ruse. So, yes, such funds have been allocated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a line, Mr. Zarkov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u121	My line, Mr. Chairman, will be very brief. First of all, thanks for the attitude. We'll keep an eye on those funds in the budget. Perhaps this is not the time to ask you exactly how they will be and how they will be located in time, but I assure you, Mr. Minister, here from the stands and there in place how the activities are going to develop, but you personally and the government will receive the deserved gratitude when this happens. This is a repair that is now particularly relevant, but which has been spoken of for years and may be one of those things that Prime Minister Kiril Petkov also talks about, which have been delayed year after year after year in every city and region of the state. So, as you have done in your previous existence, I believe that when you deal with such a question, you will bring it to the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u122	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Would you like a hole, Mr. Secretary? That was the last question for you. Thank you for your participation. We are now going to ask Minister Ivan Ivanov questions. The question is from the MP Rumen Hristov about the actions taken by the Ministry of Agriculture to support the Bulgarian greenhouse producers. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The energy crisis and, above all, the gas crisis affects the entire economy of Bulgaria. This is also true for the sector of R & D and this is particularly relevant for the greenhouse production given that the main energy source there is gas. In the conversations I have made with greenhouse producers, it is clear that this year most likely none of the four thousand acres of greenhouse land will be planted. This means full import of traditional tomatoes and cucumbers for Bulgarian production, even more so given the fact that Polish production has decreased significantly. The bills that calculate the producers of greenhouse fruit and vegetables show that from 5.. 6 thousand. lv. Dekar spending now amounts go to 18.. 20 thousand. This means a very high cost of production, its inability to realize and flood the Bulgarian market with imported fruits and vegetables. Bulgarians prefer to consume Bulgarian fruits and vegetables because they are used to them and they are tastier. And from this point of view, I ask: what are the steps that you and your ministry have taken to assist this industry. I'd say that's where $10,000 works. souls and the fact that these greenhouses will not be loaded, most likely, not most likely, but certainly, those 10,000. people will stay at the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u124	Thank you, Mr. Christov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Hristov! With great concern, we take into account the difficult situation in which the sector is located..Orange production... conditions of complex pandemic situation, increased gas prices and other energy carriers, as well as adverse climatic events that caused serious damage to a small part of the vegetable harvest in 2021. We also know that due to the inability of greenhouse producers to cover their current heating and labour costs, some of them are forced to give up production. A total of around 900 hectares of greenhouses are occupied in the country, of which about 300 are heated. The main energy sources are gas, renewables, geothermal water, pellets and others. The gas-heated greenhouses are about 200 hectares, which certainly proves the immense importance of this heat carrier. Given the situation created, greenhouse producers are alarmed that there is a high likelihood that in the winter months they will fail to produce or purchase seedlings and start production of greenhouse production in time. This would lead to a lack of greenhouse vegetables native production, as well as the release of traditionally employed labour, which you have found, we have heard it from them too, of course. Due to the fact that the main cost of greenhouse production is related to heating, we believe that a four-five-fold increase on an annual basis of natural gas will result in a significant increase in production costs. This will directly affect the economic sustainability of farmers who grow vegetables. An open letter from the Bulgarian Association of producers of greenhouse production regarding the situation in which the industry is located was received in the Ministry on 7 January. In order to solve the problem, the Ministry of Agriculture took immediate action to seek the opportunity to support the sector. Taking into account the latest prices in the increase in gas on the basis of costs and consumption of gas from greenhouse gas producers, an analysis is to be drawn up and the scope of the financial support required to continue the production cycle. The Ministry is working towards finding appropriate financial mechanisms to compensate for the increased costs of greenhouse producers using energy sources to heat greenhouses. These include support through de minimis instruments, which are the fastest and most effective way to support, as well as support through a temporary framework for State aid measures to support the economy in the current epidemic explosion by COVID-19. Another measure, which can be used to support greenhouse producers - aid in the form of a discount from the value/actise of gas oil used in primary agricultural production - is also possible. The measure constitutes a support scheme for farmers and aims to create relieved conditions for their fuel used for mechanised activity in primary agricultural production by offering a reduced excise rate of gas oil. In addition, the greenhouse producers could benefit from State aid in the following directions: aid to compensate farmers for the costs associated with implementing measures under the National Programme of Tomato Mining Mole Control Measures; aid for the certification of holdings in the sector "Fruits and vegetables' under the GlobalGAP standard; aid for investment in agricultural holdings through the transfer of corporate tax; State aid, investment and tangible assets in agricultural holdings related to the primary production of plant agricultural production. Based on the statistics of greenhouse production in the country, including information from the Bulgarian Association of producers of greenhouse production on the basis of the cost of heating of gas greenhouses, and taking into account the significantly increased price of natural gas, the Ministry of Agriculture analyzed and produced different options in order to adequately compensate the greenhouse producers to offer the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u126	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, I am pleased with the answer I received. I ask only to be more operational in terms of the compensations on which you are working and to make the stick with the Ministry of Finance in due time, because you know that we have a technological process and that the delay in these compensations, the delay in planting seedling and the delay in planting this seedling in the greenhouses would compromise this year's harvest. So if you are more efficient in this regard, we will probably congratulate ourselves on success as a country in general and as producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u128	Thank you. Would you like to take the floor for the back? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, what I can say is that we are currently in intensive communication with the Ministry of Finance as well as with the representatives of the industry. You know that we hold meetings with them, Wednesday was the meeting with the branch organizations, again the question was raised. What I can say is that it is fully within the prerogatives of the National Assembly now that the budget has been put in place, as soon as it is approved, and therefore the measures will be in place and will enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We continue with a question to the Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev from the National Representative Dimitar Nikolov concerning a change in the ownership of the concessionaire at Gorna Oryahovitsa Airport. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u131	Honourable Mr. Chairman, fellow ladies and gentlemen of the House, Honourable Minister! The civil airport in Gorna Oryahovitsa has close to 100 years of history and is of strategic importance for the development and economic growth of Veliko Tarnovo region. As of 2016, the international airport was granted a concession for a period of 35 years at Gorna Oryahovitsa civil airport. From a series of media publications at the end of last year it became clear of an investment interest in Gorna Oryahovitsa Airport by the Swiss company Juvelis group. According to the information submitted, the potential investor intends to acquire a shareholding in the airport concession firm. For this purpose, in November, a subsidiary of Juvelis Airport Gorna Oryahovitsa was even established "a single company with limited liability and statutory capital of 1000 BGN. Information on the development and attraction of a strategic investor for Gorna Oryahovitsa airport is of high public interest, as this site is related to the expectations for economic upsurge of the region and the region. And that is why I expect from you, as a principal, to receive up-to-date information about the stage at which the talks about a change in the ownership of the concessionaire are being held, is there an official proposal or letter of intent by the potential investor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u132	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Nikolov! The concessionaire at Gorna Oryahovitsa airport informed the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the intention of a Swiss company to acquire the concession and requested this agreement from the Ministry. According to the concession contract, such a change cannot be carried out without the consent of the State. Our position is as follows. The concession contracts should be strictly implemented by the parties to them, including us as a country. In this respect, the person who concluded the contract should fulfil the commitments made to the State and not transfer the concession to other parties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u134	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u135	Minister, if I understand you correctly, you, as principal, will not offer the Council of Ministers the consent to transfer the majority of the concessionaire to a new investor at the airport. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u136	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u138	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. A hole? No. It was a brief but meaningful participation in parliamentary control. Thank you for your participation, Mr. Minister. We are moving on to a question to the Minister of Innovation and Growth Mr. Daniel Lorer from the National Representative Denitsa Nikolova on the management of the Programme "Competitiveness and Innovation in Enterprises" and the Programme "Science Research, Innovation and Digitalization for Smart Transformation" and the funds under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Lorer, you are managing one of the newly formed ministries, extremely important for the implementation of regional policy in the country and achieving a higher growth in all the territories in the country. In the thus formed ministry and office that you manage, there is in fact a small resource that we will have under European funds and which is precisely what we need to stimulate the economic development of the country. These are: The Programme "Competitiveness and Innovations in Enterprises", The Programme "Science Research, Innovation and Digitalization for Smart Transformation" and the Restoration and Sustainability Plan, with a small resource focused on the development of industrial zones in Bulgaria. For me it is extremely important as a person who has directly engaged in the implementation of programs and has a major role in the formation of the country's regional policy: How will you ensure one of the European Commission's most important requirements, namely, independent governance, administration and demarcation between programmes, both in terms of the sectors on which they will focus and in terms of the projects to be financed and in terms of activities? You know that there is a very important and critical requirement on the part of the European Commission, and it is not to allow duplication of activities, as well as, of course, not to allow overlap of entire results in relation to the instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova, exactly two minutes. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u141	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Nikolova, in the last decade Bulgaria has been losing. Bulgaria has been losing seriously not only its population, not just its health, not just its education. Bulgaria was losing the global economic development competition. It's enough to look at our neighbors to make sure of that. With cohesion funds from Europe, you could have achieved significantly more for our country than Slovakia, as well as Romania. But we're not there! We all know we can do a lot more, and it's time to start catching up. This is also the mission of the newly created Ministry of Innovation and Growth. One of the goals of the united ministry is fast and transparent business access to the various available financial instruments. We collect them in one place to create uniform standards, uniform assessment, good efficiency and control of spending funds. We are currently negotiating with the European Commission and I would like to point out in an extremely good spirit. They are extremely hopeful that there is a elected government here after a period of political instability and a request for a new unified governance focused on the added value of investments in increased visibility for business and zero tolerance for corruption, Mrs. Nikolova. By uniting in one structure the management of two programmes, we believe that we provide a closer link between business and the academy, a prerequisite for significantly better results than you mentioned, a very large-scale investment. The management of funds under the two new programmes and under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan will be provided by employees with years of experience. The Directorate-General for European Competitiveness Funds, which is currently in the Ministry of Innovation and Growth, has already managed two programmes successfully in the last programming period. There is nothing wrong with a body managing more than one program. In fact, perhaps the right question is why the two programs have been divided at all, but it should be asked to your group. The European Commission's comments so far make us believe that we are in an extremely advanced phase of preparation of the programme documentation and the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Subject to the Commission's requirements for demarcation and complementability between the individual instruments, each of the two programmes and the PWU itself sign how they complement and adjust without overlap not only with each other, but also with the other programmes for Bulgaria. Demarcation shall be drawn up from both the types of interventions and the types of beneficiaries and the forms of financing themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u142	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u143	Thank you, Mr. Laurer, for your answer. Perhaps just to clarify that the Cohesion Fund is one and not several, as well as to tell you that with political demagogy and suggestion there is no denying that in the latter, I would say, two programming periods no longer stop programmes, at least with regard to the management of GERB. So in this direction, it's a little weird that you're telling me how a managing authority, which has already managed a program twice successfully, expects to manage three instruments in the same way already. Perhaps what we need to say is that we are now 2022. The new programming period started in 2021. Not only has almost one year been done to have approved operational programmes, but as you know, the Recovery and Sustainability Plan is also not among those approved by the European Commission and the European Council. My appeal to you is rather to focus and concentrate your efforts on the details and to start as quickly as possible, to speed up the implementation of the programmes and the planned funds. Because you have set very ambitious goals for yourself, but you should be aware that since 2023 there are rules on which Bulgaria will practically start to lose money before it has started to absorb them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Would you like the word for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. And our aspiration is also the maximum acceleration of Bulgaria's economic growth, so I think we are on the same page on this point. However, the really important issue is not the demarcation, but the synergy, otherwise speaking, how all the instruments available to us from the European funds work together for this purpose. This is precisely the idea of them being managed in one place, and we believe that the question of demarcation will be a subsequent and natural result of the process of public discussions and comments with the Commission, which is well-founded in our practice now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u146	Thank you, Mr. Laurer. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control today. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Energy Alexander Nikolov. The first question is from the MP Martin Dimitrov about the lost Road map for the development of the transmission network signed with Gazprom. You have the floor, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, ministers, honourable Members! One of the biggest secrets of the state, unsolved by anyone so far, is the missing Road map for developing the transmission network with Gazprom. I asked this question to the Minister of Energy, who runs this ministry for nearly 7 months. He said he found evidence that such a document existed, but could not in any way obtain it, but asked all related possible companies. Then we gave Bulgartransgaz a two-week period of time to the Energy Commission with the then President Ivan Hinovski to be granted this document to the Energy Commission. Alas, the two weeks passed and there was no document! Radan Kanev and I then asked the EU Energy Commissioner to provide this document as a copy, as these are international contracts on which the European Commission should be informed. But this channel of obtaining this document, Mr. Minister, proved unsuccessful. Now, on information from the media, in particular, I am talking about the Facts website, you have requested this document from Gazprom, which is a very good initiative and is very correct if so. [[GERB-SDS lines]] Because first we have to audit the entire Bulgarian state energy, without any doubt. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] This audit is good to be carried out at the beginning of your management, but it is very important that such documents, which lead to obligations for Bulgaria, which we do not know to be found, be provided to the National Assembly to see what we have undertaken, what we have signed! For example, Bulgaria gave up 1 billion. The dollar defaults on the previous contract, for which we do not have much information with what motives and with what commitments this has happened. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So my question to you is: First, did you really, as the media write, request this road map from Gazprom? Secondly, if you have already received a copy, we are very looking forward to receiving it, too, in order to understand what Bulgaria's commitments are and to take account of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u148	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, regarding the question you asked about the missing Road map for the development of the transmission network of the Republic of Bulgaria, signed in 2017 with Gazprom, I provide you with the following information. By order of 14 June 2021 of the Minister of Service of Energy Mr. Andrey Zhivkov is ordered to carry out an inspection on an existing basis in the archive and in the system for registration of documents in the Ministry of Energy. As a result, only documents were found in which the roadmap was mentioned in letters establishing a working group, but the document itself was not found. By letters from the Minister of Energy from June 2021 to the Ministry of Energy from June 2021 to the Ministry of Energy, the Council of Ministers has also been quoted as referring to the existence of the document in question. According to the information received from both companies and the Council of Ministers, the same information was not found in their archives. In view of the growing public and media interest in the missing roadmap, as well as at the insistence of MPs to refer to the competent authorities, a letter from the Minister of the Ministry of Energy to the Ministry of Interior and the DANS requested an inspection to establish the location of the missing document. Until now, the Ministry has not received any information from the competent institutions about the results of the verification, and the document has not yet been found. The regular meeting of the Committee on Energy and Climate in the Forty-sixth National Assembly held in August 2021 was discussed by the Members of the Commission to be requested by Gazprom a copy of the document via Bulgartransgaz, as you have already mentioned. On 17 December 2021, a letter was sent to Gazprom requesting a copy of the Road map. It's a fact. A review was also made of the availability of the secret safe in the cabinet of the Minister of Energy. Despite the assurances of those ruling for an economically solid state and transparency, and to my great surprise, neither money nor a roadmap were found in the cash register. At present, the Ministry has not received any reply from a Russian party and will be provided to you in addition upon receipt. I believe that such would be enough to confirm the adequacy of the protection of the Bulgarian public interest, which is still visible from the dynamics of the financial and even demographic state in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like the word for a line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u151	Mr. Minister, you have done the right thing to ask Gazprom for the travel map, provided all other channels are exhausted. Unfortunately, the Minister of Energy refused us to do so, so your action is adequate and correct. The embarrassing thing now is that on December 17th you asked Gazprom for a copy of this road map, and we are now mid-January and such a copy has not been provided to the Bulgarian side. In this situation, the following question arises: Bulgaria must negotiate a new contract for the supply of natural gas with Gazprom and with Moscow, and given that this document has not been provided, it would seem somehow incorrect to negotiate a new contract. So I ask you at the very first contacts, because you will be asked for negotiations and for the signing of such a contract, to ask again for the road map in question, as we need to know what commitments have been made. The fact that no one has a copy of this card and no one wants to give a copy of it shows that we really need to get it. If it was just a formality, I assure you she would have been found somewhere. The fact that Gazprom has one month and obviously did not provide us with a copy of this roadmap means that they wish not to disclose the contents of this document, which is not good. This is a document signed by Bulgaria, and we need to know exactly what is signed and what commitments are signed, so again I tell you: you have done the right thing, so it is done! There must be an audit of all state energy. In these negotiations that are to come, it is very reasonable to ask again for a copy of this document. In order to negotiate a new treaty, we need to see what the situation is so far, what the arrangements are, and it seems extremely unreasonable to somehow start negotiating for a new treaty and not know what commitments have been made so far. So on this subject, we rely on you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u152	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. You can stay on the stand, as the next question is also from you about delaying the construction of the gas connection with Greece. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u153	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! You briefed two days ago on this topic and said that the Bulgarian state deliberately delayed the connection with Greece by at least four years, the so-called interconnector. This is exactly the case, only I would add something to your opinion there are international factors that want us not to have an interconnector with Greece or at least to be very, very funny. These factors want Bulgaria to be dependent on one source of gas supply, but the Bulgarian interest is different, but we want to have diversification of sources, to have alternatives and to buy what is cheapest. The problem is that the delay we have been seeing for 12 years and for which an accomplice, as you rightly point out, was the Bulgarian state, is at risk of continuing. We therefore had a good discussion on the subject in which you were involved, and we talked that the participation of the Prime Minister, of the European Commission, even of the SANS, is mandatory if you want. What I have to add as a specific question to you is that the project company can now ask the builder for monthly progress reports. When the contract has not been implemented for so long, and we have a delay, with penalties charged, let us ensure that in 2022 this project will be ready and Bulgaria will be able to buy not only Azerbaijani gas, but also liquefied gas through the terminal that is being built. Let us ask, on a monthly basis, that we be informed, and that the Energy Commission through you be informed, because once a month you are under blitzcontrol, and that we know what the progress on this project is. That's where we brought it, that after 12 years we have to use all the means to tighten control so that this project is finally completed in 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u154	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u155	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, signed on 18 March 2021. Additional Agreement No 2 amending the Treaty on the design, supply and construction of the gas interconnection between Greece and Bulgaria from 10 October 2019 has been changed from 18 to 26 months. The updated schedule submitted by the contractor Avax SA upon extension of the contract confirms the completion of the construction until 31 December 2021 and the date for the commercial operation of the pipeline to be no later than 1 July 2022. Currently, according to information from the project company ICBG, which implements the project, the implementation is in an advanced phase, but there is a delay and the construction has not been completed within the agreed deadline. As regards a linear part with a total length of 182,6 km, data as of 31 December 2021 are for welded track 179,2 km, and Avax reports the activities for digging trenches and laying of pipeline are fully completed. The information from the project company shows that there are numerous locations along the route where links of separate completed sections with a total length of approximately 5 km are made. A number of activities and supplies remain to be carried out, the main delay being the supply of crane equipment, the supply of much of the equipment to Komotini gas measuring station, the latter being expected at the end of January or at the latest mid-February 2022. There are incomplete critical activities on the linear part, such as optical cables, reclamations and hydrotests, of which six out of 17 are completed. Crosses completed are 44 out of 46 and open-source crossings completed 320 out of 370. Essential works are in relation to aboveground facilities, the implementation of which as of 31 December 2021 is as follows: Stara Zagora gas measuring station 64.4%; Komotini gas measuring station 23.9%; crane units The activity of connecting to neighbouring operators TAP, Desfa and Bulgartransgaz has not been launched. According to information from the project company, a claim was made on 10 December 2021 and was supplemented on 13 December 2021 for an extension of the construction period which was examined at the meeting of the Board of Directors of the project company on 16 December 2021. At the meeting it was decided to use all contractual instruments to accelerate Avax's work and any contractual claims will be considered only provided that the contractor is committed unconditionally to the completion of the contract work and the transmission of the site at the latest in May 2022 in order to achieve the date of commercial exploitation. The final decisions on the claims for the extension of the deadline will be taken at the next meeting of the Board of Directors of the project company scheduled for 21 January 2022. The legal opinion on the merits of the claim has already been submitted by the members of the Board of Directors. According to a preliminary legal assessment, the claim for an extension is contractually unfounded or overdue. At the meeting on 21 January 2022, a decision is expected to be adopted on the imposition of a contractual penalty for the delay as from 1 January 2022. The Bulgarian side has made maximum efforts, as you have already mentioned, not on a monthly basis, but on a weekly basis to receive the relevant reports on the construction of the interconnection. Within the office, guarantees were sought from the Greek side to carry out the construction within the time limit. The same were sought during meetings of the type "Three Seas" summits, meetings in Thessaloniki at the level of Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria with the builder in October 2021, as were sent letters to the Greek Minister of Environment and Energy. In December 2021 talks were held between the President and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, where urgent resolution of the current difficulties with the project was discussed. The position of the Bulgarian side at the corporate and institutional level at this time remains unchanged. Due to the delayed implementation, we insist that from January 1st to start charging and imposing penalties on the builder and we will monitor the weekly timetables for progress along the route. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u157	Mr. Minister, I am pleased with your response, and that there will be reports every week on the progress of the project is very good news. The other thing you are saying is that you want the contractor's commitment to May 2022. The project to be completed as a physical implementation. This is a very important issue and I ask you, when you make progress on it, to inform us as the Energy Commission. Yes, it is extremely important that there is indeed a deadline given the delay in completing the physical infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u158	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Dimitrov, beyond what you have already mentioned, we are trying our best to avoid further delay. All possible regulatory actions in Bulgaria and in neighbouring Greece are monitored by both our government and the Greek government. Therefore, on the progress not only of the construction unit, but on all documentary, regulatory requirements, you and the Energy Commission will be duly informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to the next issue by the National Representative Krasimir Valchev on the work of the plants and mines in the complex "Maritsa East" after 2025 and the involvement of the academic circles in the preparation of proposals for technological solutions. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u161	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I am engaged in the system not only as a MP from the Stara Zagora multi-mandated electoral area, but I am also emotionally involved. Most of my family, including my parents, worked and worked in the complex, spent a lot of time, if not all of their work in the complex. I'm engaged, of course, as a citizen and a consumer of electricity. I know that much better than me you know that every day between 40 and 60% of the energy is generated by the Complex, that is, the energy balance of the country is impossible without Maritsa East, and perhaps you will agree with me that this will be valid for at least another 15 years. On the other hand, we have the decarbonisation commitments, we have the European Commission's incoming directive of 2025 to reduce CO2 emissions and limit the granting of State aid. So everything said means that we have to buy time until final technologies reach technological maturity, final technologies based on renewable energy sources. At the moment we have the technology, humanity has the technologies for obtaining energy from renewable energy sources, but unfortunately, we have not reached technological maturity and for solutions for systematic storage of energy for balancing the system. The Maritsa East Complex is especially needed for balancing the energy system, because we need electricity, energy and when there is no sun, especially in the months such as January and February, as it is now. On the other hand, the situation of very increasing emissions prices makes the cost of producing energy from coal unreasonablely high. All this implies seeking solutions to continue the storage of coal energy for at least 15 years at the same time as reducing carbon dioxide emissions, that is, above all, a technological expert challenge. What other countries have done is turn to the scientific and academic circles, and that is what we did in the last term. You might say it's late, and I'll agree with you. We have commissioned three higher schools - the Technical University of Sofia, the Chemical University of Technology and the Minno-Geology - to draw up such a technological solution. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If you'll allow me, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u162	Yeah, yeah. I'm just giving a sign!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u163	And my request to you is to get acquainted with this decision. It has explored international experience, even went so far as to value all solutions, offer mixed, hybrid fuel technologies, without changing the current boilers, partial or minimal carbon capture and storage and something very valuable something for short-term and long-term solutions, including seasonal balancing of the system, i.e. the energy produced during the summer by photovoltaics, can be stored until winter, including by hydrogen, by ammonia technology and by pumping storage plants. My request to you and the reason for the question, I hope you understand it correctly, is this: get acquainted with this decision, because it is the only in-depth study currently being done on this subject. What we have heard from you in recent months is more or less improvisation on the subject. The power plant means the cross of the mines, means that we will not have 10 years for the socio-economic transition of the region, means that six thousand people who work in the mines, stop, means dependence on gas every gas crisis to be an energy crisis, and you know it very well...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u164	Mr. Valchev, I've given you twice as much time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u165	The latest garbage disposal proposal is even more improvisational. Yes, I agree that the power plant is not suitable, but that means even greater ambiguity. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u166	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Valchev, the Ministry of Energy is an active party in the process of preparing a sustainable energy development strategy with a focus on decarbonisation objectives, but also in the sense, yes, for a smooth, socially acceptable and cost-effective transformation process and a smooth transition tool. As such working groups of the Ministry of Energy actively contribute to the changes in the chapter of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan related to the development of the energy companies, including with regard to the complex of the Maritsa East, but this is not the only solution. No doubt any capacity and expertise of the scientific community will be taken into account in order to find the most appropriate solution and approach to the complex, including the adjoining state and corporate companies. In the preparation and implementation of technological, technical solutions in order to optimally exploit potential and create sustainability in the work of the complex, I guarantee you that all the proposals received will be analyzed and explored the opportunities for their implementation. I believe that maintaining the stability of the Bulgarian energy sector can be achieved by finding effective, profitable and sustainable solutions for the development and future of the complex. In this regard, I have the assurance from state-owned energy companies in the complex that they will benefit from all opportunities for cooperation with academics involved in the preparation of these technological solutions. Yes, I am informed that the TPP Maritza East 2 Ivan Rilski with subject "Preparation and analysis on the following research and development theme: The contract is the result of a joint proposal of the TPP Maritza East 2 (EAD), Kontour Global Maritsa East 3 (AD), AES Galabovo (AD) and Mini Maritsa East (AD). The three power plants and the mining company agreed because of their mutual interest to seek new technological solutions for the complex. Both the Ministry of Energy and the Bulgarian Energy Holding, including its subsidiaries, will continue to seek a solution for transformation, implementation of modern technologies in order to preserve the role of electricity production in the Marishka pool for the country's electricity system. In this respect, the capacity of the Bulgarian universities and the scientific potential of the country will be actively used for the transition to low-carbon, emission-free technologies in the production of electricity and effective achievement of the objectives of the Green Deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u168	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u169	Dear Minister, this has happened to me before in my capacity as Minister to read the answers that the administration has prepared for me. To tell you the truth, they were dissatisfied with me as a minister myself, not so much about the one who asked me them because they were written a little more administrative. The specific thing you said is that you are familiar with the fact that there is a contract from the mining university headquarters, but this is another award. This is all I ask you to note that this is about separate reports and I think it will be extremely useful for you. You said we'd meet everyone who did... No, you should ask for this report, invite the scientists. Trust me, it won't be a waste of time. On the contrary, this will be one of the most useful professional time you can do if you invite the scientists from this team. This may be one of two or one of three, if not the most important task. We must have technological solutions for the transitional period by 2025. Either we shut down the power plants or the power will be unreasonablely high. So once again, this is my request, stop improvising the garbage hauling. We have heard from the European Commission that it intends to impose emission prices on transport. It may turn out that, at some point, garbage disposal is more expensive in terms of emissions than continuing to produce energy from local coal. And again, I'm talking about the transit period, that doesn't mean we don't have to work on technology for the final period. Once again, I apologize for the repetition, the transition is primarily technological and other developed countries rely on academics. The Institute for Sustainable Technologies at the University of Thracian was established. It brings together employers, trade unions, experts, and you can also count on them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] For the last 400 years, mankind has changed thanks to the scientific revolution and to dealing with the worst challenges we have relied on scientists as well. Now we are at the challenge of dealing with climate upheavals, and again we rely on scientists around the world, and you must also rely on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u170	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Valchev, now I have nothing written in front of me. I hope this will assure you of the information I'm about to give you. Professor Mitev and I have met since the beginning of December at official events and by phone we have had a lot of conversations. You know who is from the University of Mining and Geology. With representatives of the said institute, where the trade unions are also present, we met yesterday. With representatives who prepare the analysis of the energy mix awarded by AES, i.e. TPP 1 and TPP 3 GlobalContour, and representatives of the US Embassy, and Am Chan and I have talked about different modulars of the energy mix in the next 15 years. With all possible scientific organizations that are in Bulgaria, focused on initiatives related to carbon capture, balancing the system, building capacities, way of burning, efficiency of burning, generation of electricity and so on, we will continue to meet, if not weekly, at any convenient opportunity. I can assure you and I am also convinced that you believe as much as I do in the mental potential and opportunities of the Bulgarian education system. I believe that not only the Mining and Geological University, not only the Technical University in Sofia, all possible educational institutions can contribute so that the transition is smooth, sustainable, fair, socially bearable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u172	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. We move on to the last question from today's parliamentary control by the MP Slavena Tocheva on what compensations are envisaged due to the sharp deadline of street lighting bills. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u173	Thank you. Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Nikolov, as Minister of Energy and a representative of the cabinet, I address you with a question concerning the municipalities in the district of Varna, I suppose that all municipalities in Bulgaria: what compensations do you provide for the municipalities in relation to the sharp rise in street lighting bills in the absence of an adopted state budget for 2022. According to my studies and updated information from the media, the compensations provided so far do not cover double and triple the higher accounts. The mayors of Varna municipalities have massively begun to introduce electricity regime.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u174	Can you talk to the microphones, because it doesn't sound good.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u175	Thank you. As an example, I give you the municipalities of Valchi Dol and Avren, where street lighting is due to go out at midnight. Unfortunately, the municipalities are not Cinderella, nor are you the prince who can solve their problem again for the streets to be sanctified. Therefore, I expect your answer and all municipalities in Varna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Tocheva. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tocheva, in order to mitigate the economic consequences of the volatility of electricity prices by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 739 of 2021, as amended by Decisions of the Council of Ministers No 771 of 6 November 2021 and No 885 of 16 December 2021, is approved Programme for compensation of non-bit final customers of electricity. The program is aimed at all non-bit final customers within the meaning of para. 1, t. 27 - 33a of the Additional provisions of the Energy Act, including municipal administrations, which provide street lighting in the settlements. The Programme provides support to non-bit final customers through electricity traders, suppliers of last resort, producers of electricity selling directly to end non-bit customers, and the operator of an organised stock market for electricity with a fixed amount of 110 BGN. of megawatt hour, not including VAT for the amounts of active electricity charged to a public debt for the period 1 October 2021 to 30 November 2021 inclusive. By Decree of the Council of Ministers No 476 of 30 December 2021, the Council of Ministers approved a continuation of the support of all non-bit final customers of electricity for the period from 1 December 2021 to 31 December 2021 and a continuation in January 2022 of the Programme. The amount of the envisaged support is fixed amount as a result of real market prices of BGN 128,98. on a megawatt hour on the basis of quantities of active electricity on which a public debt is charged and VAT is not included. That amount of compensation reduces the amount of the amount payable by non-resident end customers to be paid. A decision has already been made to continue support for non-bit final customers of electricity and in the first quarter of 2022. A separate programme will be approved for this purpose. The amount of compensation for this period is currently planned to be estimated as 75% of the difference between the real monthly stock price of the segment.Day forward and the Bulgarian independent energy exchange for the respective month in the first quarter of 2022 and the average price of base load on the market.Day forward for July 2021, namely 185,59 BGN, but not more than 250 BGN. at a megawatt hour. The programme should also be notified to the European Commission and approved by a decision of the Council of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u178	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Would you like the word for a line? Here you go, Mrs. Tocheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u179	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. As we expect to come up with a solution, the streets of Bulgaria are getting darker and darker. Unfortunately, even if the planned compensation is granted, it is not clear how and how they will be calculated, taking into account that the current price is getting higher by the day. As we expect this to be recalculated, the streets continue to stay in the dark and the level of domestic crime is extremely increased, which has already been high in recent months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Tocheva. Would you like the word for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ms. Tocheva, the decision is proposed, invented and discussed with all possible partners so that it achieves a maximum effective balance. The scheme and method of payment are also approved. It's about rising electricity prices. In fact, this is not true and is seen from the dynamics from December 20th to today and about the average prices, as well as in parallel with the expectations that have been communicated by business to us since December. Regarding the correlation of domestic crime and lighting, I do not have the necessary data to comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-14.u182	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. With this, we have exhausted parliamentary control for today, and that concludes the meetings for this week. The next meeting was on 19 January 2022, Wednesday, at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
