ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u1	Colleagues, I think we can start the registration now. Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u3	Registered 146 MPs in the hall and online 1. We have a quorum, we can begin the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues who failed will do so with the first votes. I would like to introduce you to the draft program for the work of the National Assembly: "1." First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 2. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Importer of the Council of Ministers. [[Noise.]] 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act. Importers suppose Vladimir Tabutov and a group of MPs. 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the Grant Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Development Association on the nineteenth power supply of Mar resources, concluded by Exchange of Letters of 1 and 2 November 2021. [[Noise.]] 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. Importers. "Anton Tonev and a group of MPs, item 1 for Thursday. 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Health Act. Importers. "Anton Tonev and a group of MPs, item 2 for Thursday. 7. Annual report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2020. Importer. The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, item 3rd for Thursday. [[Noise.]] 8. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on Amendments to the Loan Agreements of the Republic of Bulgaria with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to the withdrawal of the Bank from the use of LIBOR as a reference rate contained in a notification to the World Bank of 11 August 2021 and a reply letter from the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 February 2022. 9. Draft Law on the ratification of the Letter of Amendment No 1 of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project (SPS)? of 27 November 2014. Importer?? the Council of Ministers. [[Noise.]] 10. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Department of National Defence of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Greece, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Government of Montenegro, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Colleagues, it's very noisy in this room, and it's hard to read all this anyway. I can barely hear myself, Mrs. Atanasova. .. The Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Minister of National Defence of the Portuguese Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Government of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Department of Defence of the United States of America and the Supreme Chief Command of the United States of America in Europe (SHAPE) concerning the organisation, administration and financing of the International School in the High Command of the United States of NATO Armed Forces in Europe (SIS). Importer of the Council of Ministers. 11. Law on the ratification of the Treaty (Written for offer and acceptance of a tender/Letter of Offer and Acceptance.OA) for supplement and amendment No 1 (Amendment No 1) to International Treaty (LOA) BU-P-AAD.Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II rockets, related materials and services (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missiles, associated material and services). Importer of the Council of Ministers. 12. Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination in 2020. Importer "Commission for Protection against Discrimination." 13. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers.. Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs. This is a sequel from last week. 14. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Friday, 1 April 2022 at 9.00 p.m. 15. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, including: 15.1. Debates on asking by the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Health Asena Serbenova on the policy for overcoming the shortage of doctors in certain specialties and nurses and for the detention of young doctors and nurses in Bulgaria; 15.2. Answers to questions and This is the program project. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u4	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u5	Thank you. They voted 203 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. in total 204: 143 votes for the House and 1 online.. 144 total, against 6, abstention 54. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva. I was just about to invite you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am making a procedural proposal to drop item three on the agenda as it is currently proposed. I think we need a little more time for further consultation and coordination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u7	Thank you. Is there a reverse offer? I can't see. I put to the vote Mrs. Vasileva's proposal point three to be removed from the agenda for this week.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u9	Thank you. A total of 208 MPs voted: for a total of 207, against none, abstention 1. The proposal is accepted.. drop point three. Eventually, he'll stay for next week. Other displacement proposals, if not available, I would like to inform you about the proposals made for inclusion on the agenda on the basis of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First, I would like to inform you that there is a proposal from MPs from the parliamentary group of a party to hear Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, Minister of Foreign Affairs Teodora Genchovska and Defence Minister Dragomir Zakov in connection with the case of detained and blocked by the Ukrainian side from 24 February 2022 to the present court of the vessel Tsarevna with 17 Bulgarian sailors aboard it in the port of Mariupol, Ukraine. We discussed it at the Chairman's Council. As the prime minister will participate on Friday in the blitzcontrol, we have decided, as far as we have been concerned, to ask this question within the framework of the blitzcontrol. The Prime Minister will be warned to stand by, so the idea is that this request is not to be put to the vote now. Isn't that right, fellow Members of the Resurrection, that's what we're doing? The next request is from the MP Desislava Atanasova. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS to be included as point two in the upcoming weekly program of the National Assembly Draft of a decision for the establishment of a Temporary Committee of inquiry. I suppose you'd like to motivate him, Mrs. Atanasova. Here you go, I won't read it, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of our parliamentary group and using the grounds in the Rules of Procedure, we have proposed the establishment of a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances relating to the signing of the Memorandum of 1 billion. The dollar between the Bulgarian government and the Cem Corporation Capital Management at a public ceremony in the Granite Hall of the Council of Ministers. Since this procedure and this memorandum have caused extremely many questions, serious journalistic investigations, and still the National Assembly does not have any information, nor what the purpose of the Memorandum is, nor whether its signature is appropriate, nor exactly which are the parties represented in this Memorandum, so I propose that we set up a temporary committee of inquiry to establish all the facts and circumstances of the memorandum in question, signed a week ago. Moreover, the third item of the agenda has been dropped, and the National Assembly's Work Programme is mainly with bills that are to be discussed in the first vote. I believe that the establishment of this committee of inquiry will in no way hinder the work of the National Assembly if it joins as item two on the agenda, so proposed to us for the work this plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I'm putting the motion to the vote... Yeah, come on in. For a reverse opinion or something? For procedure. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a reverse proposal because it is not normal to set up an inquiry committee for a memorandum that does not bind any country. It's not a contract, it's a kind of memorable note. And you want to load the Bulgarian Parliament with a committee of inquiry. Moreover, those investors you are worried about have been in your "Topplofication" Sofia, who have expressed their intentions in what way to make the investments, how to return the debt of "Topplofication" Sofia to BEC, because it is no secret that "Topplofication" Sofia "may be drained in recent years, and you will now make an inquiry committee about something with which we ultimately have absolutely no commitment at all. There's parliamentary control on Friday. The Prime Minister is here, ask him. Let us not, in my opinion, concern the National Assembly with things that are not of its nature. If you really want to deal with this, your will, but my personal opinion is that this is all pointless work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u13	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Now what procedure? I think we've run out of procedures. We have exhausted them because we have the proposal for inclusion, the opposite proposal, we are going to vote. Please put to the vote the proposal of the GERB parliamentary group to include this committee as item two on the agenda. Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u14	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u15	Okay. A total of 203 MPs voted: for 83, against 99 total, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Please come in for a procedure. What's the procedure? It can only be for revoting. You know, he's not usually motivated, but let's just say... [[Reply from Delyan Dobrev: I will be careful.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u16	I'll be careful, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I have not seen a memorable note to sign in the Granite Hall in the presence of a Prime Minister and a Minister of Energy, but I have been a member of the Council of Ministers. So don't neglect this question, because no matter how hard you try to hide the truth, it will come out one day. And it is best to come out in the National Assembly in a committee of limitations than to come out in other competent authorities. So I propose a re-vote procedure. Moreover, Mr. Stoynev bothered me with the involvement of the "Toplofication" Sofia. If Toplofication Sofia has also given Russian oligarchs the opportunity to launder money, this should also be understood. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u17	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. A regime for re-voting the proposal of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u18	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u19	Thank you. A total of 206 MPs voted: for 83, against 102 total, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. A proposal has been made by the MP Radomir Cholakov on the grounds of art. 47, para. 3 for a hearing of the President of the Central Election Commission. "Mrs. Kamelia Neykova, in connection with a report of the Public Council to the CEC. [[Reply.]] Well, let's say it can. Here you go. We're starting a good meeting today. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a very different approach to observing and congratulating you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposal is as an item on the agenda for a hearing to be held by the President of the Central Election Commission, Mrs. Kamelia Neykova, because on 25 March a report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Public Council to the Central Election Commission, which defined key issues regarding the conduct of the elections during the last year. All parliamentary groups have been notified and received the report. The conclusions of this report are in a very critical spirit with regard to the work of the electoral administration, the need for changes in the texts concerning voting lists concerning machine voting and, in conclusion, the Council of the Central Election Commission calls for amendments to the Election Code, whose in-depth expert discussion cannot be delayed. For this reason, considering the report, we believe that it is necessary for Mrs. Kamelia Neykova to be heard in the parliamentary hall in relation to a proposal or analysis by the Central Election Commission on the occasion of the elections held in 2021. I request that the hearing be included as a point in the National Assembly's programme and that this be item three of the agenda for the weekly programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am making the opposite proposal with the following motives. There is no problem to look at the report of the Public Council, but somehow I am losing logic before we have considered the report of the Central Elections itself for the elections, to look at the report of the Public Council. Let the Central Election Commission formally submit, as far as I know, the election report is being completed at the moment, formally submit the Central Election Commission's report on the elections as the official institution committed to holding the elections, compare the two reports to the CEC and to the Public Council, and then decide whether we will have a hearing, whether we will discuss in the parliamentary committees and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Just to clarify that the Public Council report was delivered on 25 March, aimed at the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and sent to the parliamentary groups. I'm just saying that for the record. Please vote on the proposal for a hearing of the President of the CEC. Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u24	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u25	Thank you. Abort the vote. A total of 210 MPs voted: for 84, against 104 total, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next proposal on the program for the week of Victoria Vassileva and a group of MPs on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "There is such a people" for inclusion as a point in the upcoming weekly program of the National Assembly............................................................................... Please vote on the proposal so made. Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u26	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u27	Abort the vote, announce the result. A total of 211 MPs voted: 24, against a total of 20 abstentions total 167. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Ganev, for a negative vote, there is no way because it is a point of order. Something else. Here you are, but let's, if possible, follow the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u28	Mr. Chairman, I do not know how many of the colleagues here are familiar, but for more than a month now, the ARCHIVER group has had an entry request and a bill in which the commission in question should be closed because 5 million of the Bulgarian money we as taxpayers give to this parasitic committee and all of its activities have justified it why and how it should be transferred to the "Archives" Agency. That is precisely why I think that we should now vote, firstly, whether the committee in question will be shut down at all and only afterwards, if this proposal and this bill are rejected in this House, should proceed to a procedure for the election of any President and rules, because it may turn out to be completely unnecessary and a waste of parliamentary time what we are currently doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. I hope that the relevant committees will take into account what you said. Do you want me to read the messages first, Mr. Atanasov, and then I'll give you the floor for a statement? After all, let's finish this at the beginning of the session. There are a few messages I need to read. The first is that the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that soldiers from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria will participate in an international exercise in the territory of the Hellenic Republic between 28 March and 8 April 2022. The exercise is not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military action conducted by other............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The notification was received on 25 March 2022 by IC. No 47 203 09-28 and granted to the Defence Committee. Next message. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the Programme Budgets as of 31 December 2021 from: Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works; State Agency "ELECTRONIC MANAGEMENT"; Financial Supervision Commission; Ministry of Interior; Ministry of Culture; National Statistical Institute; Ministry of Economy; Ministry of Tourism. The reports shall be made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the relevant portfolio committees. Next message: The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 21 February 2022. "20 March 2022 and Protocol No 10 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 23 March 2022, at which the report is reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the minutes were sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Now I give the floor for a declaration to Mr. Atanasov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! DECLARATION from the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria - adopting as the basis of its position the strong condemnation of the aggressive military actions of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, expressed in the Declaration of the National Assembly of 24 February 2022; - assuming that the war in Ukraine affects all Europe and all civilisational nations and that freedom and democracy must be protected from the aggressive regime in the Kremlin; - insisting that the Bulgarian national interest is defined by the country's membership in the European Union and NATO and in relation to our relations with the allies, a significant part of which provided direct military assistance and support to Ukraine; - insisting that solidarity between free states and the protection of international law is at the heart of our well-being and prosperity as societies; - taking into account that Ukraine's defensive actions against the aggressive armed attack is its irrevocable right, is completely legitimate and justified and in accordance with art. 51 of the Charter of the United Nations and that assistance to the attackers is not an intervention in the war, but a support to restore peace; - assuming that as MPs we have not only a political but also a moral duty to comply with the prevailing support in the Bulgarian society for the just cause of Ukraine; - insisting that defence actions can be effectively supported by providing adequate weapons and equipment that fully meets the capacities and capabilities of the Bulgarian military and industrial complex, DECLARES: He began consultations to reach an agreement on the adoption of a decision of the National Assembly to give a mandate to the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria to provide military and technical assistance to Ukraine according to its needs and according to our country's capabilities. We strongly state that support for Ukraine's freedom and independence is to protect Europe's freedom, solidarity and security. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u31	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Affidavit, Mr. Kostadinov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u32	Mr. Chairman, fellow countrymen! To be honest, we have hesitated whether to read a declaration today, because the occasion on which we will be speaking here and now, at this point, is related to something that we have commented on from this place three times. But after this declaration, which we have heard now, there is no way we can help but remind our other MPs in parliament who want Bulgaria to intervene in the military conflict. As of February 24th, from the first day of the war, there have been blocked Bulgarian ships in two Ukrainian ports, which have been blocked because of the Ukrainian country's fault. One ship is in Mariupol and the other is in Chernomoresk, near Odessa. The ship, which was blocked in Mariupol, had to leave the port on the 26th. By the 24th, the time of the Russian attack, the ship was half-loaded. Then all activity at the port is stopped. During the first two days of the Bulgarian ship, no activity of any kind will be refused. The cargo-loaded and expeditionary and outside of the aquatory of the port. I repeat "Aquatoria" and not "Equatoria" after which the 27th is now completely blocked because the port is subject to systematic mining by the Ukrainian country. [[Elevator bell dings]] Accordingly, on the 27th, we from the AGE introduced Bulgarian Foreign Minister Genchovska to what is happening in Ukraine, and asked to take action as quickly as possible so that the Bulgarian ship could be released and leave the territory where the military action is being conducted. There's nothing going on! In the beginning of March 1st, I personally introduced Prime Minister Kiril Petkov to what was happening, he made a commitment to take action to evacuate. It is obvious that evacuation action has not been taken since the ship is still there. Ten days later, keeping in constant contact with the people close to the crew, we were forced to read a declaration here, only two weeks ago, in which we insisted the Bulgarian state to engage. Again, nothing followed. Today, more than a month since the beginning of the military action, the Bulgarians of the ship are 17 people, continue to be actively threatened and threatened. They haven't been out of the engine room for more than a week. They haven't seen any sunlight. Military action is extremely chaotic. It's very difficult to tell who's shooting and who's shooting at. Either way, we're collateral damage. [[DB lines.]] I'm just gonna ask the right-hand people to keep quiet, because I listened carefully to them while they were talking. And this thing at present poses a very serious danger to the lives of 17 Bulgarian citizens. Here are read declarations of how we should give weapons. So far, however, I have not heard either from the official Bulgarian authority or from other representatives of other political forces in parliament, interested in at least these 17 Bulgarian citizens. That for the half-millionth Bulgarian minority in Ukraine no one cares about the ruling majority, that is clear, we have seen it, a fact that no one is in any way interested. [[(Strong noise and lines from.) We continue the Change.)]] But we are talking about 17 Bulgarian citizens that the Ukrainian country is holding hostage. Let's say it clearly and categorically from here, to know. If we have in mind our country, we have been on Ukraine's side since the beginning, why hasn't this been used to evacuate our compatriots from there? Why was the necessary action not taken to seek contact with both one and the other? Because you have to look for contact with Russia as well. After all, both sides are fighting war there. It could come down to a situation where the Ukrainians would want it and the Russians wouldn't give it. That's why we have diplomats. That's why we have services. That's why we have the National Assembly. That's why we have a parliament. That's why we have the Council of Ministers. In order to enable them, at this time, in this situation, to react and provide protection, which is supposedly guaranteed according to the Constitution of every Bulgarian citizen in his country. But there's one detail here: is this our country? Does Bulgaria behave as the country of the Bulgarians? How is it possible that in our country we feel like guests? So even today there's a whole group of symbols of a foreign country here! And that's considered normal! Seventeen Bulgarians are currently threatened! I don't want to be a bad prophet, and I'm not even gonna say what I think I'm gonna say, but if anything happens, God forbid, with our countrymen, it's gonna be the ones who haven't lifted a finger in a month to do anything. I don't even know if it's too late anymore, but we won't get tired of repeating that. Because if anyone here wants to give bombs to Ukraine, let them realize that tomorrow one of these bombs could fall on the Bulgarian ship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u33	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Information about this, as agreed, will be received on Friday. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u34	Mr. Chairman, my remark is in the manner of conduct. My request is, once again, that someone from rebirth come out and start talking about a matter with which only and only will cause harm, simply not to allow it. Once again we hear how the ship was Bulgarian. [[Breeding lines.]] I can't believe you couldn't understand that the ship had a Flemish flag. [[Breeding lines.]] Once there's a Flemish flag on the stern, it's Flemish territory.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u35	Maltese! Maltese!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u36	It's not Bulgarian! But it's not Bulgarian! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u37	Please don't engage in dialogue with each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u38	And with those screams you scream out of the stands, all you can do is harm, there's nothing else you can do. [[Relations of the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov.]] The government takes the necessary care, the government is constantly in touch with the sailors and do not speculate on the condition of the ship. [[Heckling]] The ship has a breach above the waterline. The ship can't get out of the harbor because there's no piloting service, there's no tugboats. Besides, the channel's mined. [[Breeding lines.]] And what you are saying is that a Bulgarian ship has gone to get it! How do you imagine this thing? How do you imagine the ship going out to sea?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u39	To me! To me, Mr. Belev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u40	If it's Azov! Is it not a conversation in the interest of another country, Mr. Chairman? [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u41	Mr. Belev, please try to ease the emotions. I think we're all concerned, just some people see the solution differently. But we really need to do what we need to do. I am informed that the government is taking action, but as I said, on Friday we will have the opportunity of the Prime Minister to hear this information. Here you are, Mr. Ganev. I do not wish to open a discussion on this matter. I'm really asking you, if it's in the way of conduct, to really be with me and to end this matter as possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u42	Mr. Chairman, I will not address the man who spoke before me because I do not know his name, but I will address you directly. When the wives of the sailors in question came up with their names, with their faces and said two things: that the Ukrainian state holds their husbands hostage and as a living shield, should I trust you or their wives? When those same women said that Kiril Petkov personally and personally lied about being evacuated and no longer on the ship, but at the same time they were making phone calls and being in Engineering, should I trust you or their wives? Who's lying? Before you go out on this stand and pour insults and attacks on the birth, it is good to read, hear and get acquainted with the factology. As far as the flag of the ship is concerned, there are those present on both sides who made it possible for Bulgaria not to have a flag of the sea. And you walk with powerful steps to outrun them in thefts and robberies!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u43	Mr. Ganev, this is already...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u44	On the other hand, comment...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u45	This has nothing to do with the subject anymore. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u46	...what the sailors' wives said. Because they say it, not us!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u47	It won't be...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u48	They said what I was quoting earlier that Kiril Petkov lied about being evacuated, and then again said they were on the ship. When exactly and who's lying?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u49	Mr. Ganev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u50	Kiril Petkov or the wives?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u51	Mr. Ganev, let's not open a discussion about this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u52	From the phone calls with the sailors. Here right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u53	We don't have that on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u54	We have exactly what we're saying right now because we're not saying it...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u55	You're abusing the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u56	...said by the wives.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u57	You're abusing the procedure. I think we've got our opinions. Again, on Friday you will be able to ask the necessary questions. Until then, there will probably be additional information. I assure you, the government is working on it, but indeed the place here in parliament on Friday is to inform everyone what has been done so far and what are the problems and why this evacuation cannot be carried out immediately. I hope we can now move on to the agenda on item one: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MANAGEMENT BY THE EUROPEAN STRUCTURAL AND INVESTIGATION FUNDS. There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Requesting clearance procedure. On the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to vote in the Chamber to allow the following persons to be admitted: Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Manuela Milosheva, Director of the National Fund Directorate at the Ministry of Finance, and Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Director of the Directorate of Central Coordination Unit of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u59	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Please vote on the proposal so made. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Okay, here you go. You're right. I wasn't expecting it. Cancel the vote so we can hear Mr. Gajev why he doesn't want to enter the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is not that I do not want them to enter the Chamber, but there are rules in this country and in the Chamber as well, and in art. 76, para. 3 it is explicitly said that when the bill has been submitted by the Council of Ministers, it is presented by a member of the Council of Ministers. Is this proposal in line with the regulations?! I would therefore like to ask you to actually implement the Rules and Bill to be presented by a member of the Council of Ministers. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u61	Now we will first make the procedural proposal for admission and then we will clarify the other issue. Please vote for admission procedure. Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u62	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u63	Thank you. Excuse me, I see you're in a hurry. Abort the vote. There is virtually no vote because we do not have the necessary quorum. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] Please invite your colleagues. We're gonna do a re-vote, guys. What's the problem? We will do a re-vote and then perhaps the necessary number of MPs will be gathered. Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, before we proceed to the re-vote in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to inform you that there has been a legitimate vote at the moment with 111 votes in favour of, without objection and abstention. Prior to that verification of the quorum there was no, i.e. from the registered morning 184 MPs more than 50% participated in the vote. In order to support myself with another argument, two weeks ago, with 94 votes, we adopted on the agenda to enter the Rules of Election of the Governor of BNB. With 94 votes for this proposal was accepted, that is, when we work, I think we should at least work on the same rules within two weeks and, if possible, follow them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u65	You're right, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u66	So there is a adopted decision, please invite the representatives of the ministries to enter. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u67	You're right, Mr. Svilensky. It's my fault, we don't have to re-vote, and in practice, the proposal is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u68	That's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u69	Yes, it has been accepted since we are working with the quorum which was registered at the beginning of the meeting until the quorum has been checked. If you want such a check, do it, but the vote has already been made, so please invite your colleagues. Mr. Gechev, you have the floor to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 47-202-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 February 2022. At a meeting held on 17 March 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance Ivaylo Yaydzhiev Deputy Minister and Manuela Milosheva Director of the Directorate of National Fund and of the Council of Ministers Ivan Ivanov Director of the Central Coordination Unit. The bill was presented by Ivaylo Yaydzhiev (Deputy Minister of Finance). The proposals for amendment and supplement of the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act are related to the adopted structure of the Council of Ministers and the Joint Management Agreement of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2021 The current revision of the Law leads to discrepancies between the national legislation setting out the institutional framework for the management of the European Structural and Investment Funds, the structure and composition of the Council of Ministers and Decision No 892 of the Council of Ministers of 30 December 2021 to take action to prepare structural and other changes in the central administration of the executive. These non-compliances make it difficult to implement the regulatory framework and lead to a delay in implementation. The draft law aims at achieving compliance with the new structure of the Council of Ministers and synchronization of actions, maximum efficiency and optimization of administration, developing the expert potential for coordination, management and control of EU funds. This objective can be achieved by optimising the functions of the Central Coordination Unit and defining them in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 and by establishing a legal opportunity for the unit to be organised in the administration of the Council of Ministers, in the Ministry of Finance or in another ministry. The proposed regulatory changes will ensure the proper and effective implementation of the regulations governing the implementation and management of the funds of the European Union. A predictable and effective regulatory framework will be established for the management of European funds. The proposed amendments and additions are in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and the Partnership Agreement of the Republic of Bulgaria, which outlines the assistance from the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014 During the discussion took part the MPs Kiril Ananiev, Temenuzhka Petkova, Krasimir Valchev and Alexander Ivanov. According to them, in order to make the proposed change, it is necessary to prove weaknesses in the work of the unit so far and how they can be overcome. They believe that a particularly large political and financial power is concentrated in the Minister of Finance, there is opposition and conflict of functions within the Ministry of Finance. They voiced concern that the Bill does not solve problems and that it is not appropriate to carry out such changes in the current programming period, provided that such a change would not have a good effect on all projects programmed by the Central Coordination Unit. Deputy Minister Ivaylo Yaydzhiev argued that the purpose of the change is not to address specific problems, but to optimize programming. He also pointed out that the Bill does not oblige the Central Coordination Unit (Central Coordination Unit) to be in the Ministry of Finance, but opens up the possibility to be placed where the relevant government believes it is most appropriate. The change will not result in turmoil in respect of the programmes being implemented, the administrative capacity of the unit is intended to be maintained and an estimate has also been made so that there is no delay in implementation. Mr. Ivan Ivanov added that regarding control there will be no conflict of functions. Prof. Rumen Gechev expressed his position that their parliamentary group will support the bill, and between the first and second votes a correction may be necessary in order to specificise, legal clarity and refine texts. Mr. Venko Sabrutev pointed out that the parliamentary group of "We continue the Change" will support the bill. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held, which received the following results: 13 votes for......................................................................................................................... and 8 votes.......................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 47-202-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 February 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u71	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. One clarification, of course, we have representatives of the Council of Ministers and one of them is Deputy Minister Yaydzhiev. There is established practice on this issue in the National Assembly and the Bill can be examined without their participation, of course, but if they are willing, they can present it after we have voted their presence in the Chamber. The Deputy Ministers may, of course, participate on behalf of the Minister concerned. If the importers are willing to present the bill, let them do so, if not, I open the discussion on the bill. I'm opening the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Gazhev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u72	Dear Mr. President, first of all, there is no way to interpret that there is an established practice in the National Assembly, as the member I was quoting is the article. 76, para. 3 in the last sentence: "When the bill is submitted by the Council of Ministers, it is presented by a member of the Council of Ministers. It was adopted by this National Assembly for the first time, so there is no way to talk about old practice. Until then, yes, deputy ministers could present the bill, but they are not members of the Council of Ministers, and members of the Council of Ministers are only the ministers and the prime minister. We're talking about a collision here, and somehow there's no way the Deputy Minister can present it in the room. Yes, it may be in the committees, in the committees it is explicitly stated that it is represented by deputy ministers or ministers, but in the Chamber it is only by the members of the Council of Ministers. So there is no way to accept, Mr. President, your theory, as well as, by the way, the attempt at suggestion with the vote that has been made by your parliamentary group, giving the wrong example. Last week's example with the 90 votes was for revoting, only the first vote had 121 votes, and that is why the first vote was adopted, not the second vote, and this example with the vote was incorrect. I understand the majority's desire to get rid of the practice of necessarily having 121 people who voted for a bill or a draft decision, but this will simply not be as easy as you imagine it to be. And again I ask you: how will you implement the imperative text of the Rules of Procedure, which wants a member of the Council of Ministers, a minister, a deputy prime minister or a prime minister, to present the bills in the Chamber? The same will apply to the next bill, by the way.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u73	That's right, Mr. Gadget. You may know that in practice the Council of Ministers can only make decisions with deputy ministers when they are authorised by the ministers, so that the presence of a deputy minister here performs the member you have just quoted, so we can continue our work.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u74	And who's replacing the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u75	Maybe the deputy prime minister can replace him, but the other deputy ministers can make a decision. Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u76	Dear Mr. President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conducting the submitted bill in relation to a change in the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. The fact remains that the draft amendment to the most important law concerning the implementation, management and control of EU funds has not been submitted to the European Commission on EU issues and has therefore not been submitted to the Sub-Committee on the control of EU funds. I believe that this failure in practice gives an opportunity to neglect the most important bill relating to the management and control of European funds. This may have a negative impact on the overall implementation of both the current programming period, which we complete by the end of 2023, and in implementation, of course, in terms of the new programming period, which concerns the period up to 2027, as well as on the implementation of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan, in so far as the changes proposed at this time to the National Assembly are related to a coordination mechanism which can directly reflect on the effectiveness of the implementation of these funds. My question, Mr President, is: why has this bill not been submitted to the committee for consideration with the relevant expert opportunity and to be improved, including on the proposed texts, and how much are the changes currently proposed mainly related to the institutional framework? They do not concern the budget of the Republic, and in this direction it is necessary to examine the bill, if not now, between first and second readings, by the European Union committee. By the way, the new changes that are related to this bill that we have heard about in the Budget Committee also need to be distributed when they are submitted to the National Assembly, to the portfolio committee. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. You have reason to believe that such a law should also be examined in the portfolio of the Commission, which is on European Union issues, but I think that there is still a possibility that the committee itself between first and second reading may consider it, especially the subcommittee, of course, and if there are proposals, those that are indisputable, could even be tabled by MPs from various parliamentary groups. I ask the President of the European Union Commission to take account of what you just said. We're moving on to discussion. Are there any statements on the ground? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reasons presented to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, the reasons for the relocation of the so important Directorate of the Central Coordination Unit of the Administration of the Council of Ministers to the Administration of the Ministry of Finance are entirely political and apparently the majority management has begun to run out of possible management models because, when there are no expert arguments for the change of one law or the change of the institutional framework, any political reasons are used to seek the effect of moving one administration to another or the artificial relocation of one unit, which has proven results in the course of two programming periods, from one home to another. At present, what we see from the Bill is that no analysis has been made of how this change will affect the managing authorities, the Certification Authority, the Audit Authority, and the beneficiaries, which are part of an effective structure for managing and controlling European funds. A partial impact assessment has been prepared, however, which is seen to be of a rather blanquet nature, in so far as it has to meet the requirement of Council of Ministers Decision No 892 since the end of last year, but ultimately does not consider the risks of moving a working unit, which is part of the management and control system of European funds from the administration of the Council of Ministers to the administration of the Ministry of Finance. Moreover, when it comes to amending the institutional framework of the bodies for coordination, management, implementation and control, compliance audit is also required by the Executive Agency. From another point of view, we have to say that the period for this change is extremely inappropriate, as we are ending a programming period and we need to start implementing a second, which has not yet been agreed, including the management and control systems are still under discussion by the European Commission and the partners at national level. This act in itself, in terms of change, is an extremely bad signal for our partners in the European Commission, because it speaks of a lack of continuity and predictability in the Bulgarian system for managing EU funds. There is complete ambiguity as to how the Central Coordination Unit Directorate will become part of the administration of the Ministry of Finance. During the review in the Budget Committee, it became clear that the government still has no idea of the structural change to be made, will there be a reduction in the state of people of the current structure, how the conflict of interest will be avoided in terms of division of functions and responsibilities. There is confusion and cancellation of art. 10, para. 2 of the functions of the Central Coordination Unit (Central Coordination Unit) insofar as these functions are defined there as supporting the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds, as well as as as the Secretariat of the European Union Coordination and Management Board. Moreover, the functions of the Central Coordination Unit are extremely limited only to communication with the partners to the European Commission under art. Paragraph 8 of Regulation No 1303, which means, in practice, that the Deputy Prime Minister clearly provides for another unit within the Ministry of Finance to assume the functions of Secretariat at the SMUEC and, in addition, a visible other unit will perform the functions of coordination of European funds at the Ministry of Finance. The structural changes in the Central Coordination Unit are clearly visible, at least to me, in terms of reducing the functions and responsibilities of this Unit through the proposed changes. Does this mean that we will have a reduction in state, we will shorten an administration that has been built for 10 years precisely in the direction of being politically neutral, to conduct its policy in terms of fulfilling its functions and responsibilities in terms of absorption and spending European funds? There is also a need for complementary information relating to who will manage the Information System for Management and Monitoring, which is the effective structure through which we monitor the mechanism for implementing European funds in digital mode. At present, this system has been under the control of the Central Coordination Unit. It was also supported by the Council of Ministers. How and how the new structure will be transferred to the Ministry of Finance remains unclear to us and invisible to at least the motives of this bill. What I can finally say is that the change in question, personally for me as a person who has managed 10 years of EU funds, will lead to another administrative chaos and chaos, which we cannot afford mostly at the fun we have already had for the second year, to launch a new programming period, as well as the fun associated with launching the implementation of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan, which has not yet been adopted by the European Commission. So far, what we are seeing from the government's measures is that in four months a bill has been tabled, which is absolutely incomplete and inadequate in terms of proposed changes, which have a much greater effect, linked only to changes in administrative structures, but not by the essence of implementing the absorption of European funds, and does not essentially contribute to the effective management of these funds. Within the framework of the Transitional and Final Provisions of this Law, it is provided that six months from now we expect this administrative change to end, to end in the form of further change of regulations, regulations, decrees of the Council of Ministers. Yes, but people and businesses expect European funds. Such we do not have for the new programming period. Should we be going into such administrative reform right now, and was it necessary? This we will see in time, but honourable rulers, I believe that you are making a mistake and at least this error could have saved you mostly in the interests of the people and, above all, in the interests of statehood. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Are there any other statements on the bill? Here you are, Mr. Valchev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From the report presented to us for the Bill, we have heard that it will optimize the structure of EU funds management, increase predictability and transparency. We also heard that from the Budget and Finance Committee. We asked questions exactly how it was going to happen, but we didn't get an answer. The truth is that this change is being made to transfer the Central Coordination Unit to the Minister of Finance. The fact is that back in time this was one of the institutional models, this is the alternative institutional model. Colleagues from the Ministry of Finance have said that they have coordinated the change of eligibility with the Regulation with the European Commission, and that is probably the case. This change is really acceptable. What is proposed by this bill is that it is also admissible under our legislation. And here the question is which of the two institutional models is better?? whether we should have a designated minister, respectively Deputy Prime Minister, and the Central Coordination Unit? During the governments with Prime Minister Borisov both options have been tried and practice clearly shows that the option to have a designated Deputy Prime Minister and the Central Coordination Unit (Central Coordination Unit) to be to the Council of Ministers is a better institutional model than to be to the Minister of Finance. At the very least, it's a job, a time that needs to be devoted to this policy, to this complex management process. I do not know how long the Deputy Prime Minister will have to devote to the Head of the Central Coordination Unit. I know that if there is an intended Deputy Prime Minister, he will be with him every day for several hours and much more dynamic and committed will be the structure of EU funds management. Another problem arises.. He is the over-concentration of functions in the Minister of Finance. Even if this overconcentration does not lead to a conflict of functions within the meaning of the Regulation, I will give you a reason for reflection. We've had an operation design correction. What does that mean? It means that a sanction has been imposed, which is not due to improperly conducted public procurement, but for something that is embedded in the design of the operation, i.e. the Central Coordination Unit, which is responsible for the coordination of the managing authorities and which is also involved in the monitoring committees, is more or less responsible for the design of the operations. At the same time, to the Minister of Finance are the Certification and Audit Authority, which must impose adjustments, especially the Audit Authority, that is to say, would it not be for the Minister of Finance in Conflict of Interest to impose a correction for something in which the Central Coordination Unit took part? Here is an example of a potential conflict of interest that this institutional model does not solve with over-concentration of functions in the Minister of Finance, so this is what I wanted to tell you. The situation of the Central Coordination Unit to the Minister of Finance suggests that we will have less commitment of the minister responsible with the policy and activities of managing EU funds and is a prerequisite for a potential conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u81	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Are there any other statements on the bill? I can't see either. We close the discussion and move on to the vote in a moment. Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u82	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u83	Thank you. A total of 124 MPs voted: for a total of 116, against 7, abstention 1. The bill has been passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u84	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u85	It's a re-vote. Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u86	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u87	Thank you. A total of 117 MPs voted: 117, none against and abstention. In the case of registered 146 MPs, the bill was adopted at first reading. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u88	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u89	Come in for the procedure, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u90	Mr. President, I see your desire this week to change the rules on which we have been working since the beginning of this National Assembly, namely that the bills are adopted by more than half of the votes. That means there should be 121 votes. Until now, when there have been less than 121 votes, even the President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minchev, who is not here, has repeatedly said that I quote: "The vote is not successful." Not that it's accepted or not accepted, but failed. That is, this vote, which you have declared accepted, if I should quote Mr. President Minchev: it is unsuccessful. So I hope that you do not create new precedents while you are leading, and that you are in fact different from the proper conduct of the President of the Assembly, Mr. Minchev, who has repeatedly made similar statements. This case has been discussed more than once in the last three months. I understand the desire to go back to some old rules when you really vote with half the registered ones, but this has been changed by the rules of the Assembly. We have had this conversation many times and this debate about whether or not there should be 121 votes. And if yours is correct, then in the last three months, Mr. Minchev's reactions were wrong?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u91	It's possible both. [[Replys from MP Iva Miteva.]] I'll give you my word now, Mrs. Miteva. As you say, we have also discussed this more than once. The rules are the same as at other National Assembly meetings, and I think that when no inspection of the quorum has been requested before the vote, we are working with the quorum already registered with the National Assembly. It is thus assumed that the present Members of the National Assembly are those who are already registered. Here you are, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I can't understand how much time we've had since the forty-fiveth Parliament, we've been trying to explain to each other what a quorum means and what a majority means. I think it's about time we did it today. Until the forty-fifth National Assembly in the Rules of Procedure dealt with the term..................................................................................... since when the constitutional amendment was adopted in 2007, it was adopted that the National Assembly opened its meetings and adopted its acts when more than half of MPs. Therefore, there were voting days and voting hours until the forty-fourth National Assembly. When the Forty-fourth National Assembly began, it remained what it meant to be registered, but the voting days and hours were cut. That is to say, the main reason why this amendment was made in the Rules of Procedure has disappeared and the provision with registered ones has been depreciated. The registrations are important and are important for the opening of the quorum in the morning of the meeting. The quorum is always the same under the Constitution. It must be 121 to have a meeting of the National Assembly open. From then on, we deal with the term of the present Members of the National Assembly. Members of the National Assembly are no longer registered from the morning. 200, 240 or 180 to divide this number and search. From now on, in order to adopt an act, the Constitution says that there must always be more than half of those present. The attendees, to open a meeting, are always at least 121 and always to pass a law, we require 61 MPs. So you don't have to go back to this opening in the morning with how much you found and divide the registered ones because the computer system shouldn't show a number of registered or present, and it shows a number of voting participants. The computer system shows the result of this vote, which is different because in plenary, as well as here, there are clearly 121 MPs. They are in plenary, but do not wish to vote for the vote, the opposition or the abstention, and they simply do not participate in the vote. The important thing is to have 61 Members of the National Assembly in the case of quorum 121, as established in the morning. As was just before the vote, if anyone had requested a quorum, you had found that there was no quorum and it had fallen since the morning of 117, then, yes, there is no quorum and there is no vote. But in this case, we have a claim that no one has challenged it. We're looking for 61 votes and moving on. That is why I have repeatedly appealed for this computer system to be changed and to show a number of participants in the vote, as the Constitutional Court says. There are infinitely many solutions, please read them. The practice of the Constitutional Court is lasting. That is to say, we have returned to the practice that was applied until the forty-fourth National Assembly until 2007, so there is nothing unusual about it. The vote is valid, Mr President, no one challenged the quorum, and just MPs did not take part in the vote and there were 61 MPs for. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Indeed, there are several questions that constantly create occasions for this type of discussion. This is one of them. Perhaps at some point, when we have to open the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly, we will have to write them out explicitly so that the leaders of the sitting do not have to subject themselves to a different type of discussion of this nature. Several are such and I really appeal at one point to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to make this interpretation, to write it down so that no such issues are raised each time. Now we move on to: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HIGH MOVEMENT. Mrs. Anastasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u94	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u95	Do you have a procedure? Mrs. Anastasova, wait to hear another procedure and we'll continue after that. What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In relation to the vote. The big problem is that both in the forty-fiveth and in the forty-sixth National Assembly, and in the present one is considered a rule in a conjunctual situation, something like it does not work for the majority, and hence it is necessary to introduce a new practice. That's what happened to the quorum. In the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly, this was because of the vote abroad. There were no votes according to the old rules of the then majority in the National Assembly and there was the argument that it should be 121, not to look at those who registered in the morning, because then we had made a very high quorum. Since then, they said, "No, no. If 121 has already voted, then it is accepted. " - This has entered into the Rules of Procedure, and now you are not always going to stand up to this number 121 and we are going to open the Rules again because of the conjunctural things to bring it back to the way it was, as far as I can see. Not 121, but three votes have already been put to practice three times to rethink the same thing, because no quorum has been assembled, and other situations will arise from this. My call is: if the Rules are to be opened, I don't mind, but let's think outside of the conjunctural things what is convenient for the majority............................................................................. Then we were even in opposition and said: "Colegi, you will not be able to pass a single law in this Parliament. " - They gave up at one time because they felt that they were in government too. So I'm asking you here to have some hard rules, not change them as we please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u97	Thank you, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u98	Just two words.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u99	Okay. I just wanted to say that Mrs. Miteva's interpretation is completely correct. And when I mentioned the Rules, it was to write down the interpretation in any way, if necessary in Transitional and Final Provisions, so that people would not come out and question this interpretation. But of course, if you're holding, Mrs. Miteva, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u100	Mr. Chairman, there is no need for any interpretation of this. We have removed in the Rules what it means to be present in the Additional Provisions. I mean, there's nothing there anymore, that these are the registered ones. We apply directly the constitutional norm of art. 81 The Constitution has direct effect, and we are implementing the Constitutional Court's decisions. One of them is Decision No 18 of 1995. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to meet him. I'd like you to meet him, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. I would even ask that it be sent to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u102	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u103	For a procedure? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is to you in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. I may agree with what you have established as a.. as a vote, only that you must give an explanation to the Chamber when Mr. Minchev held the meeting of the National Assembly, was he not aware of these norms and the decisions of the Constitutional Court? Look, we're getting into an interesting hypothesis here. We have had several votes in this and in previous parliaments - three, four times I hope it is not reached, but let us establish some lasting norm. Here we do not play some MPs or the leading meeting to find out what is written in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. We shouldn't work at precedents, colleagues. This is dangerous to parliamentaryism and dangerous to the state. I cannot understand why, in previous National Assembly meetings, it was three times necessary to vote the same norm in the Chamber if you are now imposing the norm as Mrs Miteva reads it? Those are dangerous precedents! If, as Mr. Bikov said, you have established a new practice, let it be defined in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. Otherwise, 90 minutes is the continuation of the football meeting, but when we are comfortable, it will be 75 and sometimes 105 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u105	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We're reading what you said. Any other procedures? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fact is that several procedures have already been taken by different groups to clarify the concept of what it is.............................. the National Assembly.................................................................... Is this concept constitutionally binding, which is the presence in the plenary and the opening of the sitting? I believe that President Miteva well justified and underlined the mistake that you made by declaring a single decision, a bill adopted. I, Mr President, believe that now is the time for you to announce the real and firm result that has also been achieved in re-voting, namely that the decision, that is, the bill, has not been adopted at first reading. Otherwise, Mr. Chairman, you risk another complaint at the Constitutional Court. I think this is most logical of you and will also really show a different style of holding the parliamentary meeting. I hope, Mr President, that you would like to differ from those vicious practices which are demonstrated in the National Assembly as declared to be decisions no matter how many votes, no matter which vote and in the absence of a quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. You may have, since you were not in the Chamber, in fact Mrs Miteva's position was in favour of the adoption of the bill. Really, I appeal for a little clearer, hard rules maybe. If we must, the Conference of Presidents to discuss these matters, and if necessary, a new case in the Constitutional Court to close this issue once and for all, I hope. Thank you. With this we are already passing the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Higher Education. Mr. Denkov is here, Mr. Gajev, so I guess there's no objection this time. You are welcome to present the Report to the Commission, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, if you assign the task of the administration of the National Assembly to make a reference from the beginning of the 40th National Assembly so far, how much of the parliamentary time has been eaten by procedures and mostly by which parliamentary groups will be seen how much time we have lost. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "This is good. "]] I wouldn't say that's okay. People didn't send us here to do this, but each according to their own understanding. Changes are clearly required in the Rules of Procedure and I hope you will then organise a training of the Members of the National Assembly to be aware.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u109	That was the way it was led here...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u110	Yeah, that was the way it was led.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u111	Now proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u112	Plus, I've never allowed myself to abuse any procedures before, so it's not so scary to listen to me within a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u113	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u114	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act No 47-202-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2022. At its regular meeting on 2 February 2022, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 47 202-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2022. The meeting was attended by Academician Nikolay Denkov, Minister of Education and Science, Professor Anastas Gerdzhikov, Chairman of the Council of Rectors in the Republic of Bulgaria, Member of correspondent Professor Ivan Iliev, Rector of the University of Lesotechnics, Professor Diana Petkova, Chairman of the Union of Scientists in Bulgaria, Associate Professor Lilyana Valcheva, Chairman of the National Branch Trade Union. The bill was presented by Minister Nikolay Denkov, who outlined two groups of changes: one regulates the terms and conditions for joint training of students from two and more Bulgarian universities. The second group of changes is related to the possibility of preparing PhD students in research projects, which is a widespread practice around the world. There are also proposals, crucial technical problems identified in the implementation of the Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria. In the performance of art. 72, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education and Science, before discussing the Draft Law in substance, carried out an examination and established its compliance with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules of Procedure. Opinions have been received from the University of National and World Economy, from Syndicate University of Bulgaria, from the Council of Rectors of Higher Schools in the Republic of Bulgaria, from the National Branch Syndicate of the Ministry of Education and Science, from the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and from the Association of Medical Universities in the Republic of Bulgaria. At the meeting, a public discussion was held on the Draft Law, which was attended by representatives of the respective employers' and civil associations, as well as by the persons and organisations who submitted written opinions. The discussion included the MPs Irena Anastasova, Kostadin Kostadinov, Andrey Chorbanov, Elisaveta Belobradova, Krasimir Valchev, Mikhail Iliev, Kostadin Angelov, Mukaddes Nalbant, Anton Tonev and Rumen Gechev. The MPs from the parliamentary group of the "There is such a people" pointed out that the training in project doctorate is intended to end with the end of the project. It would be appropriate to conclude only the funding, but the training could continue in another academic form without funding, because otherwise this means that if the PhD student did not defend a thesis immediately after the end of the project, the project would have ended without result. From the parliamentary group of the "Democratic Bulgaria" the question was asked whether the right of the Minister of Education to refuse to approve the joint training agreements is not contrary to the principle of academic autonomy. The MPs from GERB's parliamentary group pointed out that the professions of the future would require more and more integral knowledge and asked what procedure would be the choice of project PhD students, as well as why it is proposed to update the National map of higher education annually. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and expressed the need to refine the texts on plagiarism and the reliability of scientific data. People's representatives from the Parliamentary Group continue The Change has highlighted why it is important to increase the role of the external members of the jury. The MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) called for a strong and united effort to promote European practices to prevent violations of academic ethics. From the parliamentary ARCHIVE group raised the question of the need for greater flexibility in the allocation of learning time and documentation when a student is trained in more than two higher education schools. Minister Nikolay Denkov answered the questions asked that the limitation of the term of the project doctorate stems from the framework of the project itself, which is specifically for funding a PhD student. When training at several universities is multiple of the respective semesters, this facilitates not only the organization of the process, but also the students themselves, and only when this is not possible will it be necessary to look for a more flexible form of training. The Ministry of Education and Science must have the right to approve joint training agreements because it is responsible for financial security and for issuing diplomas. The annual update of the National Map of Higher Education is required because the methodology is new and its implementation requires the need for improvement due to the dynamic environment. The selection of PhD students depends only on the institution that finances the project, but the protections of the thesis will follow the general framework set by the state. Following a 14-vote vote, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Higher Education Act, No 47 202-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2022, should be adopted on the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u115	And thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Dear colleagues, I am opening a discussion on the bill. Who wants the word? Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the proposed amendments to the Higher Education Act, I support the possibility for higher education schools to prepare PhD students participating in research projects. These projects create new scientific knowledge and applied products, implement practical ideas and technologies, have close contact with the business where research with scientific value is implemented. The preparation of PhD students in the framework of the implementation of research projects will enable the development of innovation and entrepreneurial skills. I also support the idea of connectivity between higher schools and the possibility of conscientious training of students. For me, sharing common material and academic resources, on the one hand, is part of the global globalisation trend and, on the other, is linked to higher economic efficiency. The most important proposed change in the Law on Higher Education is the possibility of emerging new, multidisciplinary specialties. In view of the expected positive results presented, we at "We continue the Change" we will support the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Are there lines? I can't see. Thank you. Mr. Valchev, you wanted the floor, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! The bill offers an arrangement that is necessary. The framework of the joint programs is needed, the framework of the project doctoral degree is needed. In fact, this is something that already exists in practice. The bill steps to a very large extent and the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education by 2030 adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly. It was adopted in December 2020. There was no time to propose the resulting changes to the Higher Education Act. These changes are part of the changes to be made, something we have also heard in the Committee on Education and Science by Minister Denkov. The arrangement of joint programmes is necessary because we live in a world where professions change and this change is towards greater interdisciplinaryness. Much more of the professions of the future will require more integrated skills. If programmes in higher education have always been directed and the entire pyramid of knowledge has been aimed at higher specializations so far because automation has replaced primarily professions that require lower-specialized knowledge, then the professions of the future will require greater integral consciousness. The next wave, or already the current wave of digital transformations, will much more affect professions that require a narrowly specialised knowledge in one area. It will be much easier to replace them than those that require integrated skills, and also the change of professions in this direction to find jobs that require more integrated skills. In this sense, higher schools should be encouraged to make such joint programmes, even programmes within the universities themselves. But this is not the only dimension of the networks. Mr. Minister, we may have networks within a professional field, within a specialty of one of the higher education centers, and other higher education centers are those who support it. Because, as you have noted, you cannot reproduce enough good schools, good enough teachers in all higher schools, especially if they have small departments, and in this sense the network approach is what is needed. The network approach is necessary both interdisciplinaryly and within a professional direction and within the European dimension. During the Bulgarian Presidency of 2018 the European Union decided to create the so-called European university networks. Six Bulgarian universities were approved for participation in European university networks. Like I said, you need your PhD projects. In this sense, we will support the Bill at first reading. I hope the coworkers do, too. I supported it to the Commission, as well as my colleagues in the Commission. He is largely stepping on the strategy, which, as I said, was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly. We have some notes, of course, on the content. We'll make a proposal between first and second readings. I hope you will listen to these proposals, not reject them with the assumption that they have been proposed by the GERB-SDS parliamentary group. In our opinion, it is restrictive, unnecessary detailed arrangements for the distribution of time in the joint programmes. Personally, I have a slightly different view about the National Map of Higher Education. My opinion is that it should be more sustainable, should not be updated annually. But more importantly, it had to largely continue the moratorium that was imposed. In this sense, Mr. Minister, the map that you have established is somewhat contrasting with your stated intentions for continuing profile optimization of the network of higher schools. Because my opinion is that the system has reached its profile growth in at least 90% of the professional directions and we do not need to open new higher education centres. Maybe we need information technology or computer systems, health care, and so on. That was one of the reasons for the delay. I didn't agree with the analysis that was done and the National card for higher education. That doesn't mean that I generally reject all of her conclusions, but I think you should think about it in this plane. This map must, to a much greater extent, continue the moratorium. Creating an opportunity for an annual update is perhaps an open opportunity for the Map to be adapted to imported projects for opening professional directions, to affiliates, to continuing profile expansion. Because at the moment I see, led by local patriotism, a large part, or by any other considerations, continues the preparation of projects for the opening of new affiliates and professional directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u119	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Are there lines? No. Mrs. Belobradova asked for the floor first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, as we have already heard, this bill is so necessary that around it there is a consensus and not only in the Commission but also in this House. In that sense, I'll be brief. Such should be the changes that concern education policies. The Democratic Bulgaria will therefore support the Amendment Project. The changes are in line with the modern requirements of education. A step forward in the fight against plagiarism, as well as bringing education closer to the flexibility of the labour market and the needs of young people for development. So you have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be shorter. The aim of this bill is, in fact, one.. it is quite laconic, to limit the possibility that currently give our legal regulations to higher schools to work with students through different semesters. This is why we consider this condition, which is currently required, to be highly restrictive and limiting the freedom of higher schools to conduct training in joint programmes in the participation of more than two partners in the distribution of disciplines according to the nature of the curriculum and to achieve the objectives of training with a focus when implementing a component model. What's supposed to happen is... In addition, it is related to the way the individual documentation will be kept. Because at the moment the Bill provides for the individual documentation of the students' periods of training to be conducted only by a coordinating higher school, and should be in a slightly different way. The individual documentation of the educational process and the courses passed by the students should be led by a coordinating higher school. At present, there are several higher schools that are in a period of collaboration with each other. Accordingly, at the moment with the imposition of this change, problems will arise related to the completion of the learning process for students who are in the simultaneous training process in two or more higher education schools. So we have no way of supporting him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u123	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines to Mr. Kostadinov's statement? I can't see. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Academician Denkov, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen of the National Assembly! The system of higher education for understandable reasons is of strategic importance to each country. This presupposes the actuality and importance of the regulation governing its operation. It is necessary to say that this system is conservative and requires changes in it to be measured and coordinated with the academic community. During the discussion of the Law in the Committee on Education and Science, the Group of GERB-SDS supported the proposal, but both we and the many representatives of the university community had remarks and recommendations to some controversial texts in the Bill. In essence, as colleagues have also said, the changes in the bill under consideration are in two directions. One relates to the possibility of joint training of students from two or more higher education institutions. The second is the preparation of PhD students in the implementation of funding research projects. The proposed changes are in line with the 2020 strategy for the development of higher education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2021 - 2030, which formulated as key objectives for improving the quality of higher education the interaction between higher schools in the country by sharing common resources for training and research, as well as strengthening fundamental and applied research in higher schools. In the discussion of the Law in the Committee on Education and Science, attention was paid, as I said above, to some controversial wordings that I have noted, and I will say them here. In § 2 of art. 10, para. 2 (d) was proposed by many of the authors of the opinion to drop the text (s) and/or disbelief of the presented scientific data (s). In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 6, p. 6 to drop out the text "State Agency" which we closed a few months ago, and there to sign up the e-government department. In § 3 of the Bill in art. 17 texts of the scientific articles to be replaced by the scientific publications. This term is also adopted in the Law for the Development of the Academic Chamber of the Republic of Bulgaria. In § 4, Art. 21, para. 9 On termination of the research project the training of PhD students adopted in accordance with art. 21, para. 7, proceed in a manner set out in the contract under para. 7.............................................................................. It is necessary to sign the procedures for admission, process of training, deduction and other for PhD students adopted in accordance with art. 21, para. 7. It is not clear here what happens if, for reasons beyond high school, the project's funding is interrupted. It was noted that the same educational and scientific degree can not be awarded to PhD students who are trained differently. In § 8 of the Bill in art. 42a, para. 6 at the end to be recorded as this norm is not applied in a distance learning or non-existence training form, or in cases where the number of higher school partners is greater than the number of semesters of study according to the curriculum. In § 20 of the Final Provisions also to be repealed in art. 2a, para. 6 texts "State Agency" "E-Management" which we said no longer exists and to be replaced by the text "E-Management." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 5, t. 3 to drop the text "unreliableness of the scientific data presented'. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 drop the text of the scientific data presented. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 to drop the text "unreliableness of the scientific data presented'. In general, colleagues, everywhere in the Bill we propose, and most of the opinions were in this spirit, to drop the text of the untrustworthy scientific data presented. This text is contested. There are real risks that the benefits of introducing such a text are less than the damage. The introduction of such a text would create prerequisites for unjustified signals of benevolent people and torturing the procedures of academic growth. It should be borne in mind that for the reliability of the data is pronounced a scientific jury of five or seven habilitated lecturers from the scientific field of the competition, members of colleges and reviewers of scientific works. Does adoption of such a text mean that they follow the consequences for the participants in the scientific jury, co-workers and reviewers? In conclusion, it is important to stress that we will accept these proposals in the Bill, these changes are only a step in the right direction, but they do not solve the problems in higher education in Bulgaria. To improve the quality of the education in the Bulgarian universities other significant changes in the regulations are needed, which must be communicated with the academic community, business and non-governmental sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u125	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. Are there lines? I can't see. Are there any other statements? Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u126	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I continue what the previous colleague said that this is a step in the right direction. We have no doubt that with such steps we must do everything possible so as to improve the legislative environment in Bulgaria concerning higher education and then the Law on scientific degrees and titles, as Bulgaria has a long way to go to the harmonisation of its legislation, the conditions and criteria for development and of our higher education institutions and, respectively, our researchers, as we want after these changes in the foreseeable future Bulgarian universities to start at least in the first 1000, then in the first 500 in the world ranking for universities and scientific institutes. In this regard, by supporting this extremely important step concerning institutional changes, responsibilities to universities, the formation of research universities, the rights of research universities with regard to the highest third degree of education of our students, these are steps that we will support. Between first and second readings, we propose, honourable Members, both in the Commission and in the plenary, that we consider some of the particulars of the editors. Who are they? Here on page two, this is § 2 (d), with regard to the Rectors of Higher Schools, the requirements are as follows: "When the Rector of the Higher School is established plagiarism and/or underreliance of the scientific data provided in the scientific works and so on. I take this opportunity to say, Mr. Minister, that you have our full support for an extremely important step that concerns not only the Rectors but also the lecturers, in terms of a terrible evil, this is the plagiarism with which we must have an intense, large-scale struggle, because plagiarism is a blow to academic ethics. The theft of intellectual property is something that is unacceptable all over the world, should be the same in Bulgaria, and here is the right step in this direction. The editorial proposal is to think about the notion of untrustworthy scientific data. Since we obviously need to clarify here that we are talking about the lack of credibility of the scientific data provided, perhaps the correct concept is the "manipulated scientific data" or "scientific data from primary research." I give a case what happens if someone does macroeconomic analyses based on statistical data published by official sources, for which it is for one reason or another, that they are misleading or inaccurate. In addition, there is a publication of data, including me in my field I say between the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, even among them there are certain differences, albeit non-essential. That is, obviously, the idea in the Law is to deliberately manipulate the data, especially in primary research. And since the colleague minister is an expert in natural sciences, I suppose that it refers to manipulation of data, including laboratory research, experimentation and others, where, as we say in folk language, the results of the study are tarnished so as to confirm a possible thesis or statement of the researcher. And since, when the data is inaccurate, if the data user is not responsible for this, and they are from official sources, then there should be no responsibility. That is to say, we propose that the notion of lack of credibility of the scientific data presented is indicated exactly which data we are referring to.................................................................................... and under what conditions these data are used. I think such editing will be important and it will solve the issue, as many scientific organizations have put the issue, I see, in the opinions on the untrustworthyness of the data. Otherwise, such an arrangement and such a restriction must necessarily exist. The second amendment concerns clarification and a division must be made here between how it is formulated in the amendments to the Law and in the Rules of the relevant higher education institutions. It is about the following: It is wonderful that new places for PhD students working on research projects are being opened. To explain to colleagues who are not obliged and do not deal with this matter every year the Ministry of Education and Science announces specific places according to certain criteria for doctoral studies in individual educational institutions. It's a great idea, outside of those places that are financed by the budget, if there are scientific projects to finance additional PhDs, that's great. But there are two things we need to clarify here. The first thing is that the project doctorate should not be based on the project manager's personal proposal, but on the basis of a competition, i.e. to have the same criteria and indicators for the admission of PhD students. The second thing that is very important is that the protection of PhDs will take place by the same rules as the PhD students, which were adopted in the general order of the Ministry of Education and Science. There's a problem here, too. All over the world, PhD students are involved in scientific projects, it is very important to clarify what this PhD student will protect, because the common scientific project has a problem... what is the contribution of the PhD? Because there may be one concern that 15 or 20 people are working in the project, for example. How will it be separated and exactly how will the doctoral thesis be determined in this project? In some countries this has been decided, and the PhD student can be co-authored by two or three people, published its participation as part of the project and this is being held for an author's publication, which is recognised as such an act. The second principle is separation protocols indicating the contribution of the individual PhD student. In other words, I would like to stress here there is a thin point: how will this doctoral student prove what his contribution at doctoral level is to obtain the appropriate title? So, he's in front of the scientific jury at the university or the scientific organization in question, what's he gonna present? It can not present the whole project. It must present its participation in the project. I am sure that this is taken into account in the legislative initiative, but these are things that need to be explicitly clarified. Next, there's another problem. Of course, anyone involved in a science project could get higher incomes. But I expressed my concern at the Commission to think about how this is going to happen, because it is possible in the same research unit, in the same Department of PhD students, who have been accepted with a state-order competition, to receive a minimum scholarship, a minimum wage, and PhD students who are on scientific projects, if they are not the same PhD students, can receive significantly larger incomes in the scientific project. And that means that in the same department, in the same university, PhD students in the same department, under the same scientific conditions will receive different incomes. It's okay, but it has to be signed. And here I have a proposal for a solution. It can't always happen, but in the end, we are also now involving our PhD students in scientific projects. It should be in a department when a scientific project is adopted, the head of the scientific project will obviously be from the university or from the department. Well, first of all, be kind enough to include PhD students who have already been accepted under the general program and can extend the participation with additional PhD contests to be included. That is, colleagues from universities at second reading will ask us to specify what will remain in the Law and what will remain in the regulations so that these contradictions can be resolved. I think these are editorial, though important remarks that we should all work on and take into account in the final texts. And at the commission of the University of National and World Economy, when we made changes before in the Law on Higher Education, you remember that a restriction was correctly introduced for the selection of executive positions in universities, as it is in most countries, that they should be released at the age of retirement, but we decided that those who are deans, heads of departments and other departments should remain until the end of their term. However, there is an omission made that the Presidents of the General Assembly, who are also executives, are not included in this agreement and there should be an exception for them only to interrupt their term of office. This is a question that needs to be considered whether to remain that way, whether it will change, that is not the most important, of course, in the changes that are being made in the Law. In conclusion, a step is being taken in the right direction. With joint efforts we are all obliged to change the legislative environment in our higher education, as I said, and then in the Law on scientific degrees and scientific titles, so that in our country the best conditions for the development of Bulgarian higher education and Bulgarian science can be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u127	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Is there a line to Mr. Gechev? Here you go, Mr. Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will also reserve the right to speak afterwards. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I can't help but think about the ideas I've been making so far. It is clear that we, as a national representation, should observe the best examples that can be taken from the system of higher education, and, of course, of doctorates around the world. Professor Gechev, the best part is when you get a PhD without a contest. There are no competitions anywhere in the world. I've been a PhD abroad. No one's doing a contest. There is an interview with all the candidates and it is only and only the responsibility of the scientific supervisor whether to choose him or not to choose him. He has all the responsibility. The competitions, I can give you an example, are very distorting the right to choose a candidate in many courses at least in the way they are done in our country. I have four PhDs and five currents. Thank God something like this has not happened at the moment for a number of reasons, but the possibility of a project choice to work on a particular PhD is a wonderful opportunity and I would strongly support such an idea. The second thing about remuneration. A project may give any remuneration within the project. There's nothing scary about it being much bigger than a standard doctorate. And no, it's not the same terms. In the same university or scientific institute, in the same department or department the conditions are different. And I can tell you what that is. That's the doctorate chief. If the doctorate chief can provide more funds that are better for the people who work for him, this should be stimulated in all possible ways. It should not be relied entirely on the state to make any compensation or to limit people working in PhDs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u129	Thank you. Do you want a hole, Mr. Gechev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u130	Thank you. Dear colleague Chorbanov, we will not argue, as universities around the world differ in different programmes. I know the American system best, I know European universities, I've been a committee member at such competitions. There must be a difference somewhere, but agree, you can't leave it to one member of the department, whether it's a professor, there are several professors in the department, they can make a single decision. If perhaps in medicine there are any differences, but every leading university around the world announces every year competitions on certain PhD topics for PhD PhDs, where many master graduates from around the world appear to apply for the corresponding PhD. The fact that there are established scientists anywhere you can invite a colleague you have noticed in the stream, in the seminars you work with, invite him to participate in the PhD contest if he has such qualities, but everywhere there is a commission in the department or in the faculty which is pronounced on these applications. But I say again, there are no exceptions under certain conditions, of course, which must be written in the Law. Secondly, we have no difference in the fact that PhD students who participate in scientific projects and carry out scientific projects that are funded will also receive greater remuneration. There was a nuance here I noted that when there are PhD students in one research unit, under other equal conditions it is good to include these PhD students in the projects as well. Otherwise, agree that in the same department you will have young people PhD students, from which one can receive 710 BGN, the other Whoever works more gets more, but agree, it can also create tension. Just have some doctoral priority that we've chosen and we've already included. I don't think there'll be any differences here, because at least in our faculty and departments, the first thing we do in science projects is include the PhD students who are in the department. So I don't see any differences, but as you can see, there are things that need to be specified in both the Law and the Rules, so that the fan is open, let's give way to scientific projects to include more young people. The best thing is when a doctorate is related to practice, to a specific scientific project. Then the PhD students and the scientific leaders will be satisfied, and most importantly the business or state that will benefit from this product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u131	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Chorbanov, do you want the floor? Here you go. [[Reply.]] The first one at the time is the first one in law. He had made a request before then. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Now I'm essentially commenting on the bill. From our point of view, the bill is on the right track. It is necessary and the changes that are put into it are necessary in order to optimize many of the procedures that currently weigh. It's clear I'm gonna go with the students and the PhD students. When it comes to students, for example, it is much easier to make such a system of training between several universities. The specialties are flexible, they are not formed, they are not exactly fixed and we can even see that the same specialty can sound in many different ways in different universities. This, of course, is the right approach and the right opportunity for multidisciplinaryness. Of course, this is not applicable to PhD students at this stage, because in the Law they are bound by ciphers, with a way to protect, and if, for example, we do a joint doctorate personally from some of my laboratories and the Medical University, it will have to be assigned to one of the two places and it will receive the code at one of the two places, a cipher at one of the two places. There's no way he gets a cipher for both PhD in biology and PhD in medicine. There is no way this is going to happen at this stage, of course, there is yet to be thought here in this respect. Of course, including, again, PhD students in projects is extremely good, because projects are being worked around the world and so far so very much so. You couldn't at least hire a PhD student in my field if you didn't have funding. If there's no project, this PhD has nothing to do. This is an additional opportunity to give a broad front to more people to be tied directly to this programme, so this is a good initiative. Of course, there will have to be some clarification between the first and second votes here, by saying again what we said and in the Commission: it is good to fix that after the end of this project the PhD student should enter into the norms that are set in the Law on the Development of the Academic Staff, or to enter into the rules in which the funding stops, but its training can continue according to the rules, understand, there is time for one year additional work, then additional years are given respectively, in which he can defend himself, and this gives an additional freedom for the doctor to process the results, to include them in publications and so on. Publications are, of course, important and it is good to be refined as texts... should be scientific publications. I will only allow myself to comment again on Professor Gechev's separation protocols around the world are gone. From here to Trinidad and Tobago participating in an article is participating in an article and that's all. It's not necessary, it's only the scientific supervisor's responsibility to assess what his PhD's involvement in this work is. He doesn't need to have completed the entire project, and there's no way. You are working on the project. He can participate. In our law it is said well enough that with the same work can not be protected two dissertations. In other words, if two PhD students work on the project and participate simultaneously in three publications, they cannot protect both a dissertation and these same publications. It's clear and clear enough. And last but not least, plagiarism. Plagiarism is a modern nightmare for many people, because it eventually reveals in the past who has done what. There are already software that translate from English to Bulgarian, from English to German. You know, a few ministers in Germany caught them, so to speak, with rewritten texts from English. However, it should be very precise what plagiarism is and how it can be commented. Of course, plagiarism should not be confused with quoted literature, because in each scientific work there are enough texts that quote foreign literature, but this should be clearly and accurately mentioned and perhaps need to be refined the text between first and second readings again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chorbanov. Is there a line to Professor Chorbanov? I can't see. Dear Professor Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I am impressed by the desire of the lawmaker to enter into a topic which is extremely important for Bulgarian science and thus to try to stimulate it. In this sense, I agree with the statement of colleague Gechev and colleague Chorbanov on several basic things, which I will also allow myself to stop at, because they are very neural and treated in this law and, by my humble judgment, can lead to incorrect interpretation, under incorrect composition of the law, to an explosion of negative phenomena that can vitiate the desire of the Law to promote research. First of all, what Professor Chorbanov said here, every research work has several parts. One part is reviewed, which defines what is the problem that the researcher wants to solve and then enters the special part where he presents his scientific data and conclusions from them. That is why I fully agree with Professor Chorbanov that we must very carefully in the Law, but really very carefully, if not in the law itself, then in its provisions... in the final and in a regulation accompanying the law itself, determine the concept of plagiarism, because in the attitude to the problem the author is forced to quote and use sources that are fundamental in the relevant branch of science. And if this is what the search for plagiarism is concentrated on in him, then things can be very dilated to a very heavy degree and corrupt the work of the one who has engaged with him to disrupt his scientific self-esteem and forever deprive him of the desire to engage in science. I want to share with you here as a person who spent 40 years on medical science in Bulgaria, that the problem is that I do not know how Professor Chorbanov is at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, in the Medical University is in a very difficult situation, a very difficult situation. The number of PhD students has been steadily reduced for the last 10 years for many reasons that are outside the subject of this law, but when we form the Law, we also need to know what consequences it may have. And here comes the second thesis I want to mention in defence of what Professor Gechev said. When we talk about the reliability of the data, it should be taken into account only the primary reliability of the data, as the conclusions being drawn on the basis of the data, I can give you two examples that in my life have remained as a red track and I quote them to my students during lectures. About 20 years ago, a trend of breast cancer transplants occurred in the world based on studies by a South African university, and this became literally an avalanche throughout the world, all transplant centers started transplanting patients in the advanced stage of breast cancer, after which I still remember this congress in Curajor in Italy, came a group that had done a complete analysis of the data not but the conclusions of a colleague, after which the frequency of the transplanted cancer patients catastrophicly decreased throughout the world, as they proved that the data were somehow inadequate but commented and the conclusions to them were incorrect, and this led to very serious changes, and for the colleague himself led to very serious, so to say, consequences, inability to participate in scientific forums yet years to come. The second issue, which relates to the reliability of the data. During a similar study in San Antonio in the United States, we compared reliable data, Mr. Minister, to a group of women with the same disease. If the age is between 40 and 45 years old, the results are quite different with the same therapy instead of the age between 45 and 50 years old. This means that when we have a claim to the relevant scientific artist to present the authenticity of his data, they should only turn to primary assurance. The findings are his right. They can be disproved by the development of discipline, whether it be medicine or any other discipline, it is not only about biological sciences, it can also be about human sciences, but otherwise the concept of authenticity can be commented on in many aspects. It relates to the conclusions of scientific work. And that is why my wish is for you, first of all, that the period between first and second reading be as extended as possible. Secondly, to actually attract all higher education institutions, because they have a completely different tract, opportunities to activate scientific activity through projects. I would like to share here with the esteemed audience, who deals with this serious legislation, that projects in the field of clinical medicine are extremely expensive and when you speak here at one point, I will now allow myself to read it: i.e. 8 of § 4: The Doctoral Students under para. 7 are accepted....and so on....and/or funding of their education................................................................................................... [[the President signals that time has run out]] . Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm done. But there's no talking about funding the science project. Much of the scientific projects supported by our country in the field of health, clinical medicine cannot be implemented due to a lack of funding, which must be very serious. Therefore, perhaps the Law should also pay attention to the problems of funding scientific projects. It should be defined in some way, assisted by the state, so that the doctoral students feel at ease that they can really complete a project. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u135	Thank you, Mr. Professor. Are there lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line is to the esteemed Minister, Mr. Chairman! My line to you, Professor Mihailov, is to support what you say, because really, when we defend a thesis when we're dissertations, we actually do what we do at first, we do a literary review. In this literary review, of course, we quote people who have previously done this topic, but in fact the most important part of this thesis is the discussion and that is where we should see whether there really is some kind of plagiarism, or things are clarified and are accurate. The other thing is that we are already seeing more and more often that we have a mixture of two scientific areas. For example, I can give, as is in my specialty, the orthopedics and traumatology, it is an air medicine, but most of our thesis and PhD students are currently doing research and practical application, biomechanical research, which then implements in their scientific work, which is when this moment really comes when we don't know it will be a PhD in biomechanicals or will be a PhD in medicine. This really needs to be regulated very well, because problems will then arise. Thank you. Thank you, Professor Baltov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u137	Good afternoon! Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I want to assure you that these proposals for changes are very focused. They introduce in our legislation practices that are widely used abroad and are introduced in a way that has been drilled into many places around the world for years, so my request is not to look for any, how can I say, uncertainty about what we want to achieve. Rather, we are trying to catch up on years of behind in terms of methods and forms that are used abroad. Part of the discussion, which has been forming in the last 15 minutes, is in the wrong direction. There is still a definition of plagiarism in the Law. This definition is used very successfully by the National Committee on Academic Ethics, and therefore my request to the MPs is to read what is currently in place to see what we are building on. Indeed, there is no definition of unreliable scientific data, but this did not prevent the National Committee on Academic Ethics from referring these conditions, these analyses right to the problems that you are putting in place. Obviously, if you're using foreign data and they're unreliable, it's not your problem, it's the problem of whoever posted them for the first time. I would like to speak, however, to prevent attempts to delay this bill. He is late in several respects and my call is to give no more than two weeks to be able to finish the texts, to be refined. I assure you that we will take into account all the proposals that have been made and which can correct the texts and which do not change the meaning of the Law, because there are several urgent tasks that we need to solve. That's the most important thing I have to say right now. Please don't delay the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u138	Professor Mihailov, you have the right to the back of your head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! I thank my fellow Members, who replicated me, and Mr. Minister, for addressing our speeches. I can only thank Professor Baltov, he made his statement in favor of what, I think, I also claimed. With all due respect to you, Academician Denkov, when I hear in Bulgaria that I am absorbing something that is abroad, I am starting to get a little goose bump. And I'll tell you why. That's when the famous clinical trails appeared, which had a place in only one state of Australia. Somewhere they showed up, someone sent them, they abducted themselves, they infiltrated all the health care with the shield, that it was an experience from abroad. I dare not question what you say. You claim that there is a long-standing definition of plagiarism, which perhaps should in some way also be refined modern, but not always, not always the mechanical implanting of experience that is civil... If we make a comparison, I do not want to enter into these debates here before the respected Members of the National Assembly, do you understand the difference between the level of science in the United States of America and the Kingdom of Japan, Western Europe, on a far more modest level, to be honest, and the Republic of Bulgaria? And if we introduce a mechanical attempt to assess scientific activity from a country that is a leader in the world in the field of science in the Republic of Bulgaria, we will not get the necessary effect. Therefore, I do not plead that the Law be returned nor that the term be extended indefinitely. There are legal norms for the extension of this deadline and for the solution, but as a person who is a respected member of our academic community, I allow myself, I hope he is not angry with me and Professor Baltov or Professor Gechev or Professor Chorbanov for expressing our considerations. Because so little came out that you don't know what you're talking about here, we've decided all this, we've had experience from abroad, we'll implant it and so on. That is not our reason for our speeches. The reason is already the fragile scientific activity in Bulgaria, which is here and your colleague, the former minister, he knows what the state of Bulgarian science is, it is not pink at all. And if we put things that are not in their place, we can get an effect that will not be satisfactory to the entire nation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u140	Thank you, Professor. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u141	With great respect to all those who have spoken, I simply cannot leave the last sentence. Bulgarian science should not be underestimated. I know her well enough, I know strong scientific schools, I have compared with other countries around us and I can assure you that Bulgarian science is at a normal European level, of course, not one of the leading countries. So we shouldn't underestimate her. Rather, we need to help her, as has been mentioned, to remove obstacles to her so that this potential can develop. I just can't afford to leave without saying that there's really nothing to be ashamed of. We need to work harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u142	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. Honourable Members, I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education No 47 202-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2022. They voted 151 MPs: 139 against 12, without abstention. By the way, online I missed to... The bill has been passed. Procedure between the two readings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure I am proposing an extension of the time limit for written proposals under the newly adopted Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education by seven days, i.e. 14 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u144	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Miroslava Petrova? They voted 145 MPs: for 145, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Half an hour off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u145	Colleagues, it's been half an hour a few minutes. I think we should continue our work with the Draft Law on the ratification of the Grant Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Development Association on the nineteenth power supply of Mar resources, concluded by Exchange of Letters of 1 and 2 November 2021, No 47-202-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 February 2022. First, we need to hear the report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Is there a Commissioner who would like to present the report? As a last resort, the President of the National Assembly may, but what if there are members of the Commission? I'll give you the report, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u146	The opposition is reading the report!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u147	It's happened, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u148	It's true. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Grant Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Development Association concerning the nineteenth power supply of MAP resources, concluded by Exchange of Letters of 1 and 2 November 2021, No 47-202-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 February 2022. At a meeting held on 17 March 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Ivaylo Yaydzhiev The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance. The nineteenth power supply of the International Development Association (MAP) is a comprehensive package of measures supporting the development of the poorest countries in the world that are aimed at creating job incentives; improving debt sustainability; supporting countries in a vulnerable and unstable situation affected by conflicts and crisis situations; strengthening regional integration and focusing on crisis preparedness. The International Development Association is financed mainly by additional funds of its members, so-called "feeds', with the use of its resources being reviewed every three years. So far, 19 MAP feeds have been approved, especially under the multilateral debt relief initiative. The practice established within the institution is to provide the majority of the resources of the periodically approved supplies in the form of a grant-free donation by members of the MAP with the status of contributors and a small part to carry out voting rights and to supplement the relevant entries. The original approved amount of the nineteenth power supply amounted to 82 billion. USD to be distributed within a three-year period from 1 July 2020 to 30 June 2023. Given the deepened impact of the CoVID-19 pandemic, the Association has conducted an analysis of the nineteenth power supply, which has shown that the envisaged funds may not be sufficient to meet the needs of the borrower countries, which is partly due to the preliminary supply of MAP with part of the nineteenth power supply resources to meet the needs of the member states to address the economic and health consequences of the pandemic. In the framework of meetings held between the participants on the 20th power supply of MAP, a decision was made to reduce the period of the nineteenth power supply from three to two years, to withdraw part of the resources (about 12.5 billion). This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. From 2023 financial year to 2022 financial year and transfer to another part (about 11 billion) This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. to the 20th power supply of MAP, as well as the change and redistribution of resources under individual programming policies in the general framework of the nineteenth power supply. The agreement provides for the Republic of Bulgaria to grant a grant to MAP amounting to 2.7 million. EUR in two instalments payable as follows: 1,8 million EUR 15 June 2022 and 0,9 million EUR on 17 January 2023 The Association will use the grant from Bulgaria to grant funding in the form of grants and guarantees in addition to loans to finance projects approved by MAP executives during the period of MAP 19. Bulgaria has been a full member of the Association since 3 November 2021 with the signing of the MAP Founding Treaty. In view of the conclusion of the Agreement prior to the completion of the country's membership procedure in the Association, a clause providing for the possibility, once Bulgaria becomes a member, to be able at any time to convert the amount of grant granted to MAP into a subscription bearing voting rights. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The International Treaty is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held and the following results were obtained: 13 "for" and 1 "abstained." On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Grant Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Development Association on the nineteenth supply of MAP resources, concluded by Exchange of Letters of 1 and 2 November 2021, No 47-202-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 February 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u149	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. There is a report from the Foreign Policy Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Grant Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Development Association concerning the nineteenth power supply of MAP resources, concluded by Exchange of Letters of 1 and 2 November 2021, No 47-202-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 February 2022. At a regular meeting held on 2 March 2022, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Grant Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Development Association on the nineteenth supply of MAP resources, concluded by Exchange of Letters of 1 and 2 November 2021. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Finance Ivaylo Yaydzhiev. The International Development Association is an organization of the World Bank Group established in 1960 to complement the activities of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development by promoting economic development, increasing productivity and raising standards of living in the less developed territories of the world. The International Development Association supports the poorest countries by providing loans under subsidiary conditions, grants and technical assistance, and is also committed to debt relief under various initiatives. All Member States of the European Union, except Malta, are members of MAP. The decision of the MAP Governing Council on the nineteenth power supply is an authorised contributory contribution by 23 Member States................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Republic of Bulgaria has been a full member of MAP since 3 November 2021. The agreement provides for the Republic of Bulgaria to grant a grant to MAP of 2,7 million. EUR in two instalments payable as follows: 1,8 million EUR 15 June 2022 and 0,9 million EUR on 17 January 2023 The Association will use the grant from the Republic of Bulgaria to grant funding in the form of grants and guarantees in addition to loans to finance projects approved by MAP executives during the period of MAR 19. MAP 19 is intended to continue the strong support of small countries, focusing on achieving economies of scale, harmonizing policies, strengthening preparedness and crisis sustainability and adapting to the effects of climate change. No additional costs, transfers or other payments are necessary for the implementation of the Draft Act. The payment of the contributions provided for in the Agreement will take place after the completion of the internal legal procedures of the Bulgarian Party for its ratification. The necessary funds under the Agreement will be provided within the framework of the state budget for the relevant year in the part of the financing of the budget balance. The draft law is not related to the transposition of European Union acts. The bill is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 10 votes for the Council of Bulgaria and the International Development Association on the Nineteenth Powering of MAP Resources, concluded by Exchange of Letters of 1 and 2 November 2021, No 47-202-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 February 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Korcheva. We also presented the Report to the second committee on this bill. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Come in for a speech. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u152	Mr. Chairman, at the beginning of the month in Bulgaria people fought for oil, not because the oil would run out, but because it was expected to increase its price from one lev. A week before that, they were lining up for fuel. Again, the cause was expected to grow by 10 pennies. In Bulgaria, a rich European and prosperous country is shutting down hospitals, closing schools, closing settlements. We must now vote on granting aid of nearly 3 million. Euros of the money of these same people who fight for oil to help developing countries. No one is saying that Bulgaria itself needs help. We will not participate in this hypocrisy and will not support this vote with a positive response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Ruschev. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Are there any other statements on the bill? I won't. I'm closing the debate on the bill. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Grant Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Development Association on the nineteenth power supply of MAP resources, concluded by Exchange of Letters of 1 and 2 November 2021. Miroslava Petrova? They voted 129 MPs: 117 against 11, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose the bill adopted in the first vote for ratification of the Grant Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Development Association on the nineteenth powering of MAP resources, concluded by Exchange of Letters of 1 and 2 November 2021, No 47-202-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 February 2022, to be adopted at the second vote in today's plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u155	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. First, we are voting on the proposal to be considered at second reading. We are voting for the ratification bill to be reviewed at second reading in today's sitting. Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u156	Yeah. They voted 136 MPs: 122, against 12, abstention 2. The proposal to consider and at second reading is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Grant Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Development Association on the nineteenth power supply of MAR resources concluded by Exchange of Letters of 1 and 2 November 2021 A single member. Ratification of the Grant Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Development Association on the nineteenth power supply of the resources of MAR, concluded by Exchange of Letters of 1 and 2 November 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u158	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there any statements on the bill? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote at second reading the text of the Law read so read by Mr. Gechev. Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u160	140 MPs voted: 126 against 11, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFITING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR THE RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA WITH THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT RELATED TO THE WITHDRAWAL OF THE BANK OF THE USE OF LIBOR AS A REFFERED LECTURE PROCEEDING IN THE NOTICE OF THE WORLD BANK OF 11 AUGUST 2021, AND LISMO-OTCOMPONED TO THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA OF 4 FEUBER 2022 The Budget and Finance Committee has a report. Here you go, Mr. Gechev. First clearance procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Please, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to vote for the following persons to be admitted to the Chamber: Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Svetlana Panova, Head of the Department of International Financial Institutions and Cooperation at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Desislava Lazova, State Expert in the Directorate of International Financial Institutions and Cooperation at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u162	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u163	Yeah. They voted 123 MPs: 116, against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Gechev, present the Report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on amendments to the loan agreements of the Republic of Bulgaria with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to the withdrawal of the Bank from the use of LIBOR as a reference rate, as notified to the World Bank of 11 August 2021, and a letter reply to the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 February 2022, No 47-202-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022. At a meeting held on 17 March 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Ivaylo Yaydzhiev The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance. By its Decision No 101 of 2 March 2022, the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly to ratify an Agreement contained in the World Bank's notification of 11 August 2021 and a reply letter from the Bulgarian side of 4 February 2022 informing the National Assembly that it did not object to amendments to the loan agreements of the Republic of Bulgaria with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to the withdrawal of the Bank from the use of LIBER as a reference rate. The World Bank's notification is in the context of an initiative to transition its reference interest rate towards withdrawal from the use of LIBOR. As of 1 January 2022, LIBOR in euro is not quoted by the reference banks on the interbank market in London. According to the World Bank, such termination can be expected in terms of EURIBOR in the future. In order to maintain the compatibility of the financing and lending costs, the Bank has approved an initiative to transition its reference rate, the implementation of which requires an amendment to all loan agreements, in order to include provisions replacing the LIBOR or EURIBOR in existing loans in circumstances where the LIBOR or EURIBOR cease to exist or are no longer commercially acceptable for the management of its assets and liabilities. Currently, the Republic of Bulgaria is party to nine loan agreements with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which are due interest based on LIBOR in euro, each of which is ratified by the National Assembly by law. The specific agreements, the laws on their ratification and the conditions under which the Bank may change the base for determining the interest rates on them are set out in the reasons of the Bill. The amendments to the loan agreements provided for in the World Bank's notification are adapted to all borrowers of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development format, including replacing the concept of LIBOR with a new definition of reference rate. For loans in EUR, EURIBOR or other reference rate specified by the Bank shall be determined if it finds that EURIBOR has ceased to exist or is no longer commercially acceptable for the management of its assets and liabilities. The related amendments provide that the Bank will immediately notify the borrower of future changes and that another reference rate and related amendments to the provisions of the loan agreements will enter into force from the date of the relevant notification. According to the creditor, the provisions in force of the loan agreements listed above between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development give him the right to change the reference rate on loans by notification to the borrower on the basis of a lack of objection. The specific case concerns an amendment of international treaties ratified by law, relevant to the operation of those same laws. From the point of view of relations with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in which the Republic of Bulgaria is a member, the lack of opposition would constitute support for the implementation of an initiative of the international financial institution to transition the World Bank's reference rate towards withdrawing from the use of LIBOR. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The letter of amendment No 1 of the Financial Treaty is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held, which received the following results: 13 votes for the debate, without the opposition and the abstention. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on amendments to the loan agreements of the Republic of Bulgaria with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to the withdrawal of the Bank from the use of the LIBOR as a reference rate contained in a notification to the World Bank of 11 August 2021 and a letter reply to the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 February 2022, No 47-202-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u165	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Only the Budget and Finance Committee is assigned this bill. I'm opening the discussion on it. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote for the first reading Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on amendments to the loan agreements of the Republic of Bulgaria with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to the withdrawal of the Bank from the use of the LIBOR as a reference rate contained in a notification to the World Bank of 11 August 2021 and a reply letter from the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 February 2022. Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u167	Thank you. Vote a total of 138 MPs: for a total of 124, against none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! In the strong vote, both in the Commission and in the Chamber on the grounds of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose the bill adopted in the first vote for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on amendments to the loan agreements of the Republic of Bulgaria with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to the withdrawal of the Bank from the use of the LIBOR as a reference rate contained in a notification to the World Bank of 11 August 2021 and a letter reply to the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 February 2022, No 47-202-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022, to be adopted at a second vote in today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u169	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. I also put to the vote the proposal for consideration at the second reading of the Bill. Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u171	Thank you. Vote a total of 164 MPs: for a total of 110, against 51, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mitov, just to ask, should I finish ratification first, or would you prefer now?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u172	No, now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u173	All right, come in for a statement, then we'll continue, Mr. Gechev, with the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 24 February 2022, the Russian Federation attacked an independent and sovereign Ukraine that started an unprovoked war on the territory of Europe. This is another rude violation of international law, including the UN Charter and the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. For 35 days now, brutal military action has been taking place in Ukraine, including war crimes against civilians. Thousands have lost their homes and millions have fled the war in other countries. The reconstruction of the country's ruined infrastructure and economy will take decades. By defending its own territory and independence, Ukraine protects not only itself, but also the freedom and democracy of all of us. The right to self-defense is the foundation of international law. Supporting the victim in no way means getting involved in the conflict or its escalation. If you see someone being the victim of aggression on the street, being grabbed and abused, what are you gonna do? You're not gonna help keep the conflict from escalating, and you're gonna walk by and turn your head so you don't take sides?! This is what the Bulgarian government is doing right now. Currently, 28 out of 30 countries in NATO, without Bulgaria and Hungary, almost the same applies to the European Union, helping Ukraine with military and technical assistance to protect its population and territory. None of these countries have become part of the conflict and are involved in military action. I can even give an example of the Republic of Turkey, which constantly supplies military assistance to Ukraine, but this does not prevent Sergey Lavrov from attending a forum in Antalya and Turkey hosting negotiations between the two countries to end the fighting. Unfortunately, the Bulgarian government has lowered, even seeking indulgence in parliament. Nothing that most of the other governments provide military and technical assistance without a decision to their parliaments, but we will again be proactive. As with the National Assembly's declaration of sanctions, with which we gave a mandate to the government, we are now proposing a draft decision of the National Assembly to give the government a mandate to provide military and technical assistance to Ukraine. So we suggest: First, the government should be involved in the joint efforts and provide military and technical assistance to Ukraine, without prejudice to major defence platforms and weapons. We do not accept the Prime Minister's claim that there is nothing to support Ukraine simply because it is not true. Bulgaria can provide a number of defence platforms and weapons to help defend Ukrainians, such as portable anti-tank missile complexes, anti-tank grenade launchers, mortars, rifles and enough ammunition. These are funds from which the Bulgarian Army has an excess and will not affect our combat capabilities. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Secondly, we propose that the government begin negotiations with our NATO allies on the replacement and strengthening capacity of the defence capabilities of the Republic of Bulgaria. Yesterday, we were 18 years old from our NATO membership. If we have deficits in our defense capabilities, let the government enter into immediate negotiations to assist our allies. This is one of the foundations and tasks of this defensive alliance. My fellow Members, I ask you to consider and support this draft decision, because shame will be on you, but the consequences of your inaction will weigh on future generations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time not only to add the word "humanitarian" to our statements, it is time to seal our declarations with real action and to assist Ukraine in its efforts and to defend itself. She protects all of us. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u175	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Please, Mr. Gechev, let's continue the work on the Bill for ratification of the Agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u176	I thought you were asking me to talk about the conflict, and I just got ready, and now...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u177	No, there'll probably be a lot of opportunities in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u178	Yeah, there's an interesting point, maybe tomorrow. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on amendments to the loan agreements of the Republic of Bulgaria with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to the withdrawal of the Bank from the use of the LIBOR as a reference rate contained in the World Bank's notification of 11 August 2021 and the reply letter of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 February 2022. A single member. It ratifies the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on amendments to the loan agreements of the Republic of Bulgaria with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to the withdrawal of the Bank from the use of the LIBOR as a reference rate contained in the World Bank's notification of 11 August 2021 and the reply letter of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 February 2022. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u179	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. I'm opening the discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the discussion. We are going to vote at the second reading of the bill as presented by Mr. Gechev. Please vote regime. Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u181	Thank you. In total, 119 MPs voted: 108 total, against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, A report from the Budget and Finance Committee. Here you are, Mr. Gechev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Please, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to vote in the Chamber to be admitted: Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mr. Rositsa Dimitrova, State Expert at the International Financial Institutions and Cooperation Directorate at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u183	Thank you. I put to the vote Mr. Gechev's proposal for admission. Please vote regime. Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u185	Thank you. They voted 116 MPs in total: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the representatives of the Ministry of Finance to the Chamber. You have the floor to present the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. I just want to inform you that we also have reports from the Committee on European Affairs, on Economic Policy and Innovation and on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u186	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Letter of Amendment No 1 of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project Council Regulation (EC) No 1988/2006 of 22 December 2006 on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965), and in particular Article 4 thereof. No 47-202-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022. At a meeting held on 17 March 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance Ivaylo Yaydzhiev Deputy Minister, Svetlana Panova Head of Department of International Financial Institutions and Cooperation, Rositsa Dimitrova and Desislava Lazova State Experts, and Silvia Stoykova Chief Expert. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance. The financial contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank for a structural programme loan of 500 million. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The funds from the loan are entered into the central budget and are intended to partially cover the national co-financing of the projects implemented under the Operational Programmes In addition, the Commission notes that the Bank's restructuring plan has been implemented by the Bank of Greece and that the Bank's restructuring plan is in line with the restructuring plan of the Bank and that the Bank's restructuring plan is in line with the restructuring plan of the Bank and that the Bank's restructuring plan is in line with the restructuring plan of the Bank's restructuring plan. A condition for the absorption of funds from the Structural Programme Loan by the European Investment Bank is the approval by the Bank of projects under eligible operational programmes. To date, the European Investment Bank has approved 8 large and 201 small projects implemented under the three operational programmes, with the Bank's allocation of the loan to cover the national co-financing of these projects being 371,5 million. Euros. In 2015 and 2019, the first two instalments of the loan totalled 200 million were withdrawn. Euros. As part of the measures of the European Investment Bank in response to COVID-19, the Bank enabled Bulgaria to withdraw the balance of the loan of 300 million. EUR without prior approval of projects. The resources from the third tranche entered into the account of the central budget on 15 April 2020. The amendment of the Financial Treaty was requested by a Bulgarian party in connection with Decision No 256 of the Council of Ministers of 14 April 2020 on the transfer of funds between the operational programmes 2014 " 2020" to support measures to minimise the negative effects of the epidemic spread of COVID-19 following an analysis of the implementation of the projects financed under the three eligible operational programmes, the payments made under them and the opportunities to use the loan to support the measures implemented under the operational programmes in response to COVID-19. [[OP]] The European Investment Bank is requested in the scope of the loan to include Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness 2014 " 2020" and all projects within Priority Axis 1 "Sustainable and integrated urban development" of the CFP, as currently only projects implemented under investment priority "Sustainable urban transport" of the relevant RDP axis are eligible for funding with the funds from the loan. In response to the request of the Bulgarian government was signed the proposed letter of ratification for amendment No 1 of the Financial Treaty, which includes Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The limitation on Priority Axis 1 of the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020" is also removed, with which all projects under the priority axis are already eligible for funding under the Financial Treaty. The deadline for granting projects for the approval of the European Investment Bank from 31 December 2022 shall be extended on 31 December 2026 as well as the deadline for the submission of reports on the closure of major projects from 31 March 2025 on 31 July 2027. The eligibility criteria for the financing of OPIC projects of projects in the field of circular economy, energy efficiency and research and development, as well as for vehicles and transport projects and the household waste sector, are also introduced. The activities which the European Investment Bank does not finance shall be described. These additions are made by the European Investment Bank to clarify more about the bank's financing policy and rules. All other terms and conditions of the Financial Treaty shall remain unchanged. The ratification of the amendment of the Financial Treaty will extend the scope of the loan, which will, on the one hand, provide additional resources to cover the national co-financing of projects implemented under OPEC and contribute to the successful implementation of the measures implemented under the Operational Programme to address the economic consequences of the spread of COVID-19. On the other hand, the inclusion in the scope of the loan of all projects within Priority Axis 1 "Sustainable and integrated urban development" of the CFP will contribute to their successful implementation and thus improve the urban environment, quality of life and growth in the cities in Bulgaria and especially in the current complex situation. In addition, the extension of the scope of the loan will allow sufficient projects to be sent to the European Investment Bank so as to ensure the Bank's approval of the use of the loan to cover its national funding of a total amount covering the amount of the instalments withdrawn and to avoid the repayment of the loan due to default of projects or reduced funding under them. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The letter of amendment No 1 of the Financial Treaty is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5, 7 and 8 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held, which received the following results: 14 votes for the debate, without the opposition and the abstention. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Letter of Amendment No 1 of the Financial Contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project On 27 November 2014, No 47-202-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u187	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. It is now the Commission's report on European Union matters. Who's gonna introduce him? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Letter of Amendment No 1 of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project Council Regulation (EC) No 1988/2006 of 22 December 2006 on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965), and in particular Article 4 thereof. No 47-202-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022. At its regular meeting held on 24 March 2022, the Commission on European Union Affairs examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Letter of Amendment No 1 of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project Council Regulation (EC) No 1988/2006 of 22 December 2006 on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965), and in particular Article 4 thereof. No 47-202-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Rositsa Dimitrova, State Expert at the Directorate of International Financial Institutions and Cooperation at the Ministry of Finance. In November 2014, a financial contract was signed between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank for a structural programme loan of up to 500 million. EUR (Financial contract) aimed at supporting the absorption of funds from the European Union Funds. The funds from the loan are entered into the central budget and are intended to partially cover the national co-financing of the projects implemented under the Operational Programmes The Republic of Bulgaria, acting through the Ministry of Finance, represented by the Minister of Finance, requested, by letter of May 2020, to include Operational Programme The scope of the loan includes OPIC, as eligible projects under priority axes 1, 2 and 3 of OPIC, as well as all projects under Priority Axis 1 of the ODA. The eligibility criteria for projects under OPEC, as well as projects in the field of the circular economy, energy efficiency and research and development, as well as vehicles and transport projects and the municipal waste sector are also introduced. With the ratification of the Letter of Amendment No 1 of the Financial Contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank for the financing of the project "Bulgaria.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On 27 November 2014 the scope of the loan will be extended which, on the one hand, will help the Bulgarian government to cope with the needs of national co-financing for the implementation of OPEC projects and will contribute to the successful implementation of the measures taken by the Bulgarian government to overcome the economic consequences of the spread of COVID-19. The proposed bill does not lead to an impact on the state budget. It has not conducted public consultations and has not carried out an impact assessment since the bill falls within the category of acts under § 1a, i.e. 3 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the As a result of a ten-vote vote held after a discussion, the Committee on European Union Affairs asked the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Letter of Amendment No 1 of the Financial Contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. of 27 November 2014, No 47-202-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Daneva. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation is now in turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u190	♪ I can't believe Subject: Draft Law on the ratification of the Letter of Amendment No 1 of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project On 27 November 2014, No 47-202-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022. At its regular meeting held on 23 March 2022, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Letter of Amendment No 1 of the Financial Contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank of 27 November 2014. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Finance Ivaylo Yaydzhiev. The financial contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank for a structural programme loan of 500 million. EUR was signed on 27 November 2014. The funds from the loan entered into the central budget and were intended to partially cover the national co-financing of projects implemented under the Operational Programmes The contract provides for the possibility to extend the scope of the loan to other operational programmes and sectors at the request of the borrower and after approval by the internal competent authorities of the bank. The use of funds is conditional on the Bank's approval of projects under eligible operational programmes. In 2015 and 2019, the first two instalments of the loan totalled 200 million were withdrawn. Euros. As part of the measures of the European Investment Bank in response to COVID-19 the Bank allows Bulgaria to withdraw the remainder of the loan without prior approval of projects. The amendment to the Financial Treaty implements Decision No 256 of the Council of Ministers of 14 April 2020 on the transfer of funds between operational programmes to support measures to minimise the negative effects of the epidemic spread of COVID-19. The loan was requested to include Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness 2014" (OPIC) and all projects within Priority Axis 1 "Sustainable and integrated urban development" and "Regions in growth 2014 "2020" "To date, only projects implemented under investment priority "Sustainable urban transport" under Priority Axis 1 are eligible for funding with loans from the loan. In response to the request of the Bulgarian government is signed the proposed letter of ratification for amendment No 1 of the Financial Treaty, which includes OPIC as eligible for funding will be the projects under priority axes 1, 2 and 3 of the Operational Programme. The priority axis 1 limit of the "Regions in growth 2014' is removed and all projects under the Priority axis are already eligible for funding. The deadline for granting the draft approval of 31 December 2022 on 31 December 2026 and the deadline for granting the closure reports of 31 March 2025 on 31 July 2027 shall be extended. The eligibility criteria for financing OPEC projects, circular economy projects, energy efficiency and research and development, as well as vehicles and transport projects and the household waste sector, are also introduced. The activities which the European Investment Bank does not finance shall also be described. The extension of the scope of the loan will allow the Bulgarian government to deal with the needs of national co-financing for the implementation of OPIC projects, will allow the bank to obtain approval for the use of the loan to cover the national funding of a total amount covering the amount of the withdrawn instalments and will contribute to the successful implementation of the measures taken by the Bulgarian government to overcome the economic consequences of the spread of COVID-19. All other terms and conditions of the Financial Treaty shall remain unchanged. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5, 7 and 8 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill for ratification of the Letter of Amendment No 1 of the Financial Contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank of 27 November 2014, No 47-202-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u191	Thank you, Mr. Nasser. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government remains. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u192	♪ I can't believe Subject: Draft Law on the ratification of the Letter of Amendment No 1 of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project On 27 November 2014, No 47-202-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022. At a regular meeting held on 15 March 2022, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed Draft Law on ratification of a letter for Amendment No 1 of the Financial Contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project On 27 November 2014, No 47-202-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The financial contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank for a structural programme loan of 500 million. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The funds from the loan are entered into the central budget and are intended to partially cover the national co-financing of the projects implemented under the Operational Programmes The financial contract provides for the possibility to extend the scope of the loan to other operational programmes and sectors at a later stage at the request of the borrower and after approval by the internal competent authorities of the bank. The amendment of the Financial Treaty was requested by a Bulgarian party in connection with Decision No 256 of the Council of Ministers of 14 April 2020 on the transfer of funds between the operational programmes 2014 - 2020 to support measures to minimise the negative effects of the epidemic spread of COVID-19 following an analysis of the implementation of the projects financed under the three eligible OPs, the payments made under them and the opportunities to use the loan to support the measures implemented under the operational programmes in response to COVID-19. [[OP]] The European Investment Bank is requested in the scope of the loan to include Operational Programme.Innovation and Competitiveness 2014 " 2020" (OIC) and all projects within Priority Axis 1 "Sustainable and integrated urban development" of the CFP, as currently only projects implemented under the investment priority "Sustainable urban transport" of the RDP's claim axis in question are eligible for funding with loans from the loan. In response to the request of the Bulgarian government was signed the proposed letter of ratification for amendment No 1 of the Financial Treaty, which included OPIC as eligible for funding will be the projects under the priority axes 1, 2 and 3 of OPIC. The limitation on the priority axis 1 of the CFP is also removed, by which all projects under the priority axis are already eligible for funding under the Financial Treaty. The deadline for granting projects for the approval of the European Investment Bank from 31 December 2022 shall be extended on 31 December 2026 as well as the deadline for the submission of reports on the closure of major projects from 31 March 2025 on 31 July 2027. The ratification of the amendment of the Financial Treaty will extend the scope of the loan, which will, on the one hand, provide additional resources to cover the national co-financing of projects implemented under OPEC and contribute to the successful implementation of the measures implemented under the Operational Programme to address the economic consequences of the spread of COVID-19. On the other hand, the inclusion in the scope of the loan of all projects within Priority Axis 1 "Sustainable and integrated urban development" of the CFP will contribute to their successful implementation and thus improve the urban environment, quality of life and growth in the cities in Bulgaria and especially in the current challenging situation. Following the presentation of the Draft Law, a vote was held, as a result of which the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 12 votes On 27 November 2014, No 47-202-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u193	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I must close the discussion then and move on to a vote on the Bill. I put to the first vote the draft Law on the ratification of the Letter of Amendment No 1 of the Financial Contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (project Please vote regime. Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u195	Thank you. Abort the vote. A total of 127 MPs voted: 117 against 10, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u196	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I propose the first vote Draft for ratification of the Letter of Amendment No 1 of the Financial Contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project No 47-202-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022, should also be adopted at a second vote in today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u197	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. I also put to the vote the proposal to consider the bill at second reading. Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u199	Thank you. Vote 126 MPs: for a total of 116, against 9, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Gechev, to present the Second Reading Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u200	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Letter of Amendment No 1 of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. A single member. He ratified Letter of Amendment No 1 of the Financial Contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (project "Bulgaria's" co-financing under the EU Funds 2014 - 2020 The European Investment Bank (EFF) of 27 November 2014, signed by the European Investment Bank on 16 March 2021 in Luxembourg and by the Republic of Bulgaria on 19 March 2021 in Sofia. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u201	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. I'm opening the discussion on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote at second reading of the bill presented by Mr. Gechev. Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u203	Thank you. They voted 126 MPs: 117 against 9, no abstentions. The bill was also adopted at second reading. Moving on to the next ninth item on the agenda: THE PRINCIPLE OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF BULGARIA, THE MINISTERAGE OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE MINISTERAGE OF THE NATION OF CANADA, THE MINISTERATION OF THE DESTROY OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA, THE MINISTERAL MINISTERATION OF THE BORN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GERMANY, THE MINISTERATION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM, THE DESTROY OF THE UNITED STATES, THE FEDERAL MINISTERATION OF THE BORN OF THE UNITED STATES OF THE UNITED STATES OF GERMANY, THE MINISTERITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF GERMANY, THE MINISTERATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF NATION OF THE REPUBLIC, Here you are, Mr. Zafirov, to present the Report of the Commission on this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u204	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Department of National Defence of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Greece, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic of Defence, the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of Defence, the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Defence, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. At a meeting held on 10 March 2022, the Defence Committee examined that draft. The bill and its motives were presented by Brigadier General Radostin Iliev, Director of Defence Policy and Planning Directorate at the Ministry of Defence. The Memorandum of Understanding requires an agreement which governs the specific conditions for the organisation and administration of the International School (SIS) by participants, as well as those for the implementation of their financial contributions necessary to maintain the annual work of the General Service Unit. The Memorandum will replace the current Memorandum of Understanding with regard to the Agreement between the Headquarters of the NATO High Chief Command in Europe (SHAPE) and Belgium on the establishment and operation of the International School in this Headquarters of 13 July 1978. This Memorandum introduces a new methodology for calculating the annual contributions, which examines the participating countries equally, given that the costs of building the new buildings of the school are paid jointly by them, and is based on the actual average annual number of students trained during the current year. As a result, the annual share of the contribution to Bulgaria, defined as a percentage of the school's budget, will be 0.46587 per cent, which is lower than the current share of 0.86439 per cent. The participation of the Ministry of Defence in the Memorandum may lead to financial obligations, which shall be determined on the basis of the number of children trained at the International School. In addition, participation in the Memorandum sets up a different regime than the one regulated in the Ordinance on Long-term Missions abroad on the cost of basic/average education of children of long-term seconded staff to posts in the territory of SHAPE under the Ordinance. After the end of the discussion, a vote was held in which, with 12 votes for the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Department of Defence of the Republic of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Montenegro, the Minister of Defence of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Norway, the Minister of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Portuguese Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic of the Ministry of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Slovak Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the United States of Great Britain and the United States of Great Britain of Great Britain, the United States of Great Britain of Great Britain, the United States of Great Britain of Great Britain and the United States of Great Britain.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u205	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. I'm opening a discussion on the ratification bill. While you were reading, I was wondering which country I was missing. May Luxembourg is not involved in this? Are there any statements on the bill? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I don't know if it's okay for me not to read them again. I don't think that's necessary. I put to the first vote the presented Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the listed governments and the Supreme High Command of the NATO United Armed Forces in Europe (SIS). Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u207	Thank you. They voted 126 MPs: for a total of 126, against and abstention there is no. The bill was passed at first reading. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u208	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose that the bill adopted in the first vote be adopted in a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u209	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. I put to the vote the proposal to adopt the Bill at second reading in today's sitting. Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u211	Thank you. They voted 122 MPs: for 111.. total, no 11 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Zafirov, we will learn most of the Member States. Please read it again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u212	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Department of National Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Montenegro, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Department of Defence of the United States of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic of Defence, the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of the United Kingdom of the United Kingdom of the United Kingdom of the United Kingdom of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and the United Kingdom of the United Kingdom (S) on the United Kingdom of the United Kingdom of Great. A single member. The Government of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Department of National Defence of the Republic of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Department of Defence of the United States of America and the United States of Defence of the United States of NATO Supreme Armed Forces in the United States of South East (S of State of South Africa), and the United States of State of State of South Africa in the United States of South Africa. Mons, Kingdom of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u213	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Are there any speeches? I won't. We close the discussion and move on to the vote at the second reading of the bill presented by Mr. Zafirov. Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u215	A total of 122 MPs voted: 122, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal has been adopted and has thus been adopted at second reading the Law on ratification. We move on to item 10th of the agenda, where Mr. Gechev, I think there will be an opportunity to manifest himself. This is the LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT (COMMITMENT No 1) TO THE INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT (LOA) BU-P-AAD There's a report from the Defense Commission. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the Law on the ratification of the Treaty (Written for the offer and acceptance of a tender/Letter of Offer and Acceptance.OA) on Supplement and Amendment No 1 (Amendment No 1) to International Treaty (LOA) BU-P-AAD.Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II rockets related materials and services (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missiles, Associated Material and Services), No 47-202-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022. At a meeting held on 10 March 2022, the Defence Committee examined that draft. The bill and its motives were presented by Brigadier General Radostin Iliev, Director of Defence Policy and Planning Directorate at the Ministry of Defence. LOA BU-P-AAD A1 does not change the value paid by the Republic of Bulgaria of the contract LOA BU-P-AAD signed in 2019. The same provides that, at the expense of remaining non-spent funds under the contract, after the award of all orders on individual lines, 3 additional units of Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II rockets, container and spare parts for them will be acquired. The deadline for acceptance of the offer and completion of the ratification process for LOA BU-D-AAD A1 expired on 15 December 2021 and cannot be continued. LOA BU-P-AAD A1 is prepared according to the requirements of US military sales legislation under the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program, which strictly regulates the opportunities for acquiring US military equipment and equipment. The legal framework of the FMS programme allows the US Government to change the content of FMS contracts by proposing additions and amendments to them and this is normal practice. The reason for this are the features of the FMS program transposed as standard contract terms (LOA Standard Terms and Conditions). The signing of additions and amendments to FMS contracts proposed by the US Government within the deadline set by the Programme (2 months) is very important because the delay and extension of this deadline may have negative financial reflections and delays in the implementation process. Despite the time constraints of the US requirements, the Bulgarian side should implement the national procedure for approving the draft amendments provided for in the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and their ratification, given that it is being amended by the National Assembly an international treaty. The US Government has requested that the signed LOA BU-P-AAD A1 be treated as containing controlled unclassified information (Controlled Unclassified Information-CUl) which should not be made public. This also excludes the possibility of promulgation in the Official Journal. Given the need to ensure confidentiality in art. 2 of the Bill is proposed that the National Assembly order international treaties not to be promulgated. Such an opportunity is foreseen in art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to which the authority which gives consent to binding Bulgaria to an international contract may order that it not be promulgated. LOA BU-P-AAD A1 does not provide for an increase in financial obligations for the Bulgarian state, but allows for optimization of US supplies related to the implementation of the contract for acquisition of multi-purpose fighter. From the members of the Defence Committee participated in the discussion were Vice-Presidents Nikolay Drenchev, Hristo Gadzhev and Alexander Alexandrov. Following the end of the discussion, a vote was held in which, with 16 votes for a vote was held, without abstention and 1 of abstention, the Defence Commission proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a Law on ratification of the Treaty (Sidewinder AIM 9X block, related materials and services (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missions, as requested material and services), No 47-202-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u217	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Mr. Gutsanov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I was hoping that colleagues from GERB would be in the Chamber, as they were just reading the declaration. I'd like to introduce you to some data that's not classified. Bulgaria has bought F-16 Block 70 eight aircraft worth 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the Bahrain, F-16 Block 70, 16 aircraft for a price of 1 billion. 200 million. The dollar. Slovakia supplied F-16 Block 70 14 pieces per 1 billion. 800 million. Greece is currently negotiating about 1 billion. The dollar. Greece, F-16 Block 50 and Block 52 plus for modernization from Block 50 and Block 52 plus to Block 70 for 1 billion. 450 million. The dollar. Poland supposes F-35A 32 pieces, negotiations are currently under way, for 1 billion. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The dollar. Dear colleagues, do you notice any difference in prices? Of course we'll be in favour of taking the three rockets that are being extra. That's perfectly normal. But how was this contract signed? Does anyone buy anything green at a much more expensive price than what it would be if the production was produced? [[Noise and lines.]] We do not comment that the planes were to be provided with weapons in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2023 and will be in 2025 with unclear who, where and how they will produce them, provided that these military planes are needed at the moment of Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]] It's really necessary! What are these planes and who signed this contract and how? I think it is high time for other authorities to start commenting on this deal and not for us here at the National Assembly to argue. This is really something close to national betrayal. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u219	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Bikov, line one, you second and Mr. Gajev third, if there's no other group. I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u220	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm not going to explain how many planes they bought before we even made this order F-16 and so on. I want you to answer me very briefly and specifically.... are you accusing someone of corruption, first? Secondly, who are you blaming the Bulgarian government or the US government? If you blame the Bulgarian government, it means that the US government has taken some bribe. If you blame American, it means it's corrupt in some way. [[Noise, lines and shouts: "Eee!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's what you're saying. When you talk like that, now give the specific answers, see this deal, check it out from the bottom of the board who's been corrupted here and who's done embezzlement? [[Noise and lines.]] I hope you will answer me clearly as you have here clearly extracted some data from the context. These aren't pears, tell you, neither are apples, these are planes. And you can't compare prices like that, given that you'll see that the next batch of planes will be much cheaper because we already have a trade relationship that we didn't have. [[Noise, lines and shouts: "Eee!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] By the way, and I will say this to my colleagues from the "Democratic Bulgaria" who are also missing, this happened despite your coalition partners from the BSP this deal, and thanks, despite their will, we will already have modern aviation armaments, and we will not drive Mosquich. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u221	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Here you go, Mr. Drenchev, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u222	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Gutsanov! I agree with you that this is an extremely vicious deal in which there are many doubts and which, despite the billions spent, does not fulfil its primary function, namely to give some opportunities to our aviation, which has been brought to a ridiculous and pathetic situation. I do not agree with you in one respect, precisely because you accused GERB. We must remind you that during their management they had a coalition partner whose signature as their deputy prime minister, I mean Mr. Karakachanov, stands under this contract and under this set of contracts that ultimately spend some money instead of giving any technical opportunity to our aviation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u223	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Third line? Mr. Gazhev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u224	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Gutsanov! Mr. Chairman, this is what happens when there is no representative of the importer. I insisted on another point, but you take it as an example too, because there is no one to give examples at the moment and explain. Dear Mr. Gutsanov, by comparing some parameters of different transactions, it is nice to compare them in full, but you cannot compare them in full because each of them includes different packages. When buying a particular battle platform, you don't just buy a plane or a fuselage. You buy a lot of different things. The colleagues who were in the Forty-fourth National Assembly had the opportunity to get acquainted with the whole package, inside with the price parameters and so on. Unfortunately, at the time, BSP colleagues had no activity, perhaps only one MP had read them. As far as prices are concerned, as has been said, prices are set and are the same for all parties that have entered into similar types of contracts. By the way, Slovakia is exactly the same as it is for Bulgaria. Entering such speculation does not help a qualitative debate. And the other thing I would like to draw your attention to is when we talk about the purchase of paper, ask me, please, one manufacturer, country or company that holds one, two, five or eight planes in stock and waits for someone to buy them. By the way, even if you're buying a new car right now, you're waiting between six and eight months for them to produce it for you, so you're still buying it on paper. By the way, other things that the government has currently signed, despite the not very clever statements of Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vasilev, armaments are generally bought on paper because there is no country and there is no company that holds stocks. And in conclusion, I would like to inform you that a few weeks ago there was a meeting at the National Assembly with representatives of the US government, where the State Department expressed a desire to brief us on all the parameters, delays and various cases that arise under this treaty. I hope that the President of the Commission will organise this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u225	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. You have the floor for the dot, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Gazhev, I kind of agree with you, but no one pays 100% ahead. And the sum of 1 billion. 673 million, given by the weakest economic and poor country in Europe to the world's largest economy, I think that these talks and these negotiations could otherwise have been held. [[Noise and lines.]] As far as prices are concerned, I read about the same planes, with the same units, there is no difference. As for whether there is corruption or there is no corruption, Mr. Bikov, there are other authorities that need to say. I didn't say if there was corruption or there was no corruption, and I said that I hope other authorities will finally say what's going on with this deal. But I believe that there should have been a re-arming of our Air Force that is indisputable, but not in the way that this is happening, because with this money it could have been done so that the planes would already be here or be at other parameters and not those that we currently have. So I don't think there's anyone who doesn't know what could have happened or what happened. And it's no coincidence that there's still talk of airplanes on paper. I hope they come after five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u227	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Are there any other statements on the bill? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleagues in the plenary, and especially colleagues from GERB, you remember from this tribune the colleagues and I told you, and it came true. I told you that such a treaty is not in the world and it is humiliating for the Republic of Bulgaria and it is a shame for our main partner in NATO. What is now being done, pay attention, the United States of America in a desperate PR, after saying that we will see the planes through a curved macaron, throw us three crumbs. Do you know how much a rocket costs? Open Wikipedia, 386 thousand. The dollar, that is, collect 1 billion and 600 million to the Bulgarian people and tell us: we will not deliver the goods to you! Where are they located the money of the Bulgarian people, a billion and six hundred? And they tell us that there are no planes because the cleaning lady of Lockheed sneezed from the COVID-19 and couldn't fulfill the order?! This is extreme insolence, insolence on the part of the US government and shame on the Bulgarian government, because the Americans are not guilty, you are guilty of GERB and IMRO, and more precisely... [[(Applause and cheering by]] Because you asked: Prime Minister Boyko Metodiev Borisov gave the money to Bulgaria Where's your O.S.? General Popov, who we were arguing with here, why did you hide him?! And the scariest part is here we're going to be thrown by crumbs of $1 million. $1 billion and 600 dollars, and they have the nerve to tell us that the goods have been paid and they won't deliver it?! And the scariest thing I am outraged as a Bulgarian, we are left behind a front country at the moment. Bulgaria is a member of NATO, they will now carry out their order to Malaysia because they supply oil, but will not deliver the planes to their partner from NATO. Dear colleagues of GERB, here the tragedy is scary because it was said by the experts: they are ruining the Bulgarian aviation and I think it is not on purpose, because the resource is leaking to the MIG-29s, and to the Su-25s and the president, who is former commander of the Air Force, said that there will be a period of five-six years in which sparrows will fly in the sky of Bulgaria as a result of this criminal treaty, which was signed. Criminal contract! There are no penalties in the contract, I read it in the Secret Section, there are no penalties, the guarantee is six months. And I told you from this tribune: a coffee grinder to buy, the warranty is two years under the BDS, and we were delivered maybe 3076 planes with six months warranty?! Where are the penalties of our NATO partners for the undelivered goods? It doesn't matter if it's the United States, whether it's Pakistan or Bimbinistan. It is important when a contract is not being executed. Our men have signed a contract in which there are no penalties! Do you remember that it was recently released in the media: was it some Russian company, late in the repair of helicopters or airplanes and paid them what? It's a penalty! Is that right? Where are the penalties of the Bulgarian people, where are the planes? So these people, because you ask who they are: Boyko Metodiev Borisov, Karakachanov of Defense, o.k. General Popov, what have they done? In my opinion, they risked the Bulgarian state's ability to defend themselves. Unfortunately, they will bury Bulgarian aviation! And I end up with this: shame on our partners from the United States of America who lied about delivering our planes, and now they're throwing us three rockets. What are you gonna do with them? From GERB take them and take a colorful picture! Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u229	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. For a statement, Mr. Kostadinov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Gechev, I am continuing from where you came from because I absolutely agree with everything you have said, but I just want to add something beyond what has been mentioned. The price you comment on rockets is 380 thousand, according to Wikipedia. According to the current treaty, which should be voted on, the price is 536 thousand, and the price at which we bought them is 670 thousand. 670 thousand were bought the first 12 rockets. Those we're about to receive now, the American side has estimated them cheaper at 536 thousand. Once again, the price that was shared by Mr. Gechev and which is actually in Wikipedia as information is 380 thousand. The big question, however, is this. Everything was exactly like that. Will the Bulgarian government now have the courage to put the issue before the American side of our so-called partners, allies or, as they say to the Euro-Atlantic masters, will the Bulgarian government have the courage to say it to our so-called allies? [[Noise and lines.]] Because everything is exactly the way it is, everything is exactly as it was said. The contract is not viable, it is lobbyist, there is also a ransom price for the then cabinet, there is included commission, there is everything included. Why is it that now that there is a new government, this issue has not been raised and is not put? Here it is easy now to go out and jump on GERB, no problem. But what we do with those most dependent on, the Americans, because they have the bread, they have the knife. The issue here is no longer to be an internal political debate, because anyway the evil is done, the money is given and the Americans say that we will get them airplanes eventually in 2030. Is there a will in the Bulgarian government, a desire above all, courage, as you would like to call it, to stand up and say all that has already been said to the American country once? Is there a desire and will in the Bulgarian government to say, to remind the Americans that, among other things, we have given them four bases for free, which is an absolute precedent in the world? There's no other case like this we've checked. There are more than 130 American bases in the world, none of them are given for free. Somewhere there's a barter, say military equipment instead of cash pay, everywhere Americans pay more or less. You know, they even pay Cuba, Fidel Castro pays for Guantanamo. Symbolic is the amount of somewhere in the order of $100.200 because the deal with Cuba was concluded in 1898 and still stands, but even Fidel Castro paid, paid, he Fidel Castro was not alive for a long time, Cuba paid. We don't. Now that's incredibly humiliating. Humiliating us as Bulgarians! And all that has been said, which I repeat once again, and we support, should be said not here to them, should be said to those who currently have to fulfill the contract, and should be asked, let me not use the word reparations, because we are not in the position to want this thing, but to ask for compensation for Bulgaria, and not three rockets at that price again increased, but to ask much more. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-30.u231	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines? I can't see. I think we should call this meeting off. We'll continue on this point tomorrow after the first three that are fixed. We're adjourned. Tomorrow at 9:00 p.m., we're moving on. [[PHONE RINGING]]
