ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u1	Honourable colleagues, please register. Colleagues online: Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u3	Lyubomir Karimansky? Pavel Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u5	Thank you. 171 Members of parliament have registered in the Chamber and 2 online " 173" total. There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] My fellow Members, before we begin on the agenda of the day, I am making a procedural proposal: first of all, let us continue and finish the point of yesterday which we started, but we are not finished, that is: "An annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union in 2022." Yesterday we were presented the report and the draft decision by Mr. Stoinev. We started the discussion, there were speeches by Stoyan Taslakov and by Stanislav Anastasov. I say we finish this item and then move on to Thursday's agenda. This is my proposal, please vote on it. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u6	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u7	Pavel Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u8	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u9	They voted 140 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online.. 142: for 107 and 1 online........................................................................ 3 and 1 online.......................................................................................................................................................................... The motion is accepted. We continue with the discussion on the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union in 2022. After yesterday's speeches by Stoyan Taslakov and Stanislav Anastasov, are there any other people who wish to speak? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I vote on the draft decision adopting the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2022, as annexed to the Report of the Commission on European Union Affairs and as presented yesterday by the President of the Commission Dragomir Stoinev. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u10	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u11	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u12	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u13	Thank you. Pavel Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u14	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u15	Thank you. Vote 152 MPs and 3 online " 155" total: 134 and 3 online " 137," against 13, abstention 5. The proposal is accepted and the item on the agenda is exhausted. We move to point seven of the National Assembly's Programme for the Work Week 23? March 25, namely: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR BULGARIAN CIVILITY. There has been a report from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Report of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on a Draft Law amending the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 47-202-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2022, adopted on the first vote on 17 February 2022. The Law on Bulgarian Citizenship is amended. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. Proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva, Andrey Mihailov and Milen Mateev. The Commission supports the proposal to create a new § 3. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 1 the following amendments 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 Finally, the words "s'/or "s' shall be deleted. 2. Point 4 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u17	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. I am opening a discussion on the title of the Bill, § 1 by importer, § 2, which is also by importer, and § 3 by commission. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We vote on the title of the Import Act, § 1 by importer, supported by the Commission, § 2 by importer, supported by the Commission, and § 3 as amended by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u19	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u21	Pavel Christov? Thank you. Vote 178 Members of Parliament and 2 Online " 180": for 177 and 2 Online " 179," no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva, Andrey Mihailov and Milen Mateev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 3, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u23	In fact, I see that there is only one more of the main text of the Law to read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u24	Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u25	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. I am opening a discussion on § 4, § 5 and § 6. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion and we're going to vote. I shall put to the vote § 4 - a new one proposed by the Commission; § 5 in the version of the Commission and § 6 by the text of an importer supported by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u27	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u29	Pavel Christov? They voted 179 MPs and 2 online " 181" for 179 and 2 online " 181" against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u30	"Transitional provision." Proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva, Andrey Mihailov and Milen Mateev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the division be amended as follows: The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 5 and proposes to reject it. The Commission proposes to establish § 7: .................................................... Unfinished until the entry into force of this law proceedings under the repealed art. Art. 12a. 14a shall be terminated.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u31	Paragraph 8 will you read us?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u32	Proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva, Andrey Mihailov and Milen Mateev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 8: ................................................................................... (1) When Bulgarian citizenship is acquired according to naturalization on the basis of the repealed art. Article 12a or the repealed art. 14a, the person who acquired it, is obliged to notify the competent authority that certified the investments within 14 days of the change in the facts and circumstances relating to the investments that have become the basis for the naturalisation and present the documents demonstrating the change. (2) Naturalization on the grounds of the repealed art. Article 12a or the repealed art. 14a may be revoked under the conditions of Chapter Three, Section II, and when the person who has acquired Bulgarian citizenship has not notified a change under para. 1 or has not supported the investments which have become the basis for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship for at least a two-year period from the date of naturalization in the cases of the repealed art. 14a, para. 1 or for at least a one-year period in the cases of the repealed art. 12a, para. Article 1 and the repealed Article 1. 14a, para. 1, t. 3 - and the jobs created. (3) The Ministry of Justice shall send to the competent authority under para. 1 information on persons who have acquired Bulgarian citizenship on the basis of the repealed art. Art. 12a. 14a. The competent authority of para. 1 shall notify the Minister of Justice of any established change in investments leading to a failure to comply with the obligation to maintain them. (4) For the maintenance of investments under para. 2 the competent authority under para. 1 exercise control after the end of the period under para. 2 and informs of the outcome the Minister of Justice, who may require information from the State Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u33	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. I am opening a discussion on the name of the division and the paragraphs read by Mr. Mateev. For speech "Milen Mateev," then "Peter Petrov."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u34	I'm making an offer according to art. 80, para. 2 of the Editorial Rules in the title, since the newly proposed § 7 can in fact be interpreted as a final provision, the title to become
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u35	Thank you. The editorial proposal is to amend the name of the division to "Transitional and Final Provisions." Replices to Milen Mateev? I can't see. Here you are, Peter Petrov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My statement relates to § 5 and the proposal of the working group for the creation of § 7. The importer's proposal is the applications under art. Art. 12a. 14a, submitted before the entry into force of this law, shall be examined and resolved in the order so far. I believe that this proposal by the importer should be supported, as all these applications have been lawfully submitted. The conditions that were fulfilled were under the law in force. Accordingly, when applicants applied for Bulgarian citizenship, after the investment they followed the law in force. I have not heard at the Commission meetings any reason for changing this proposal by the Member of the Council of Ministers, and what decisions are required for the termination of all these pending proceedings. I did not hear any motives from the working group, which wants to change this and create the new § 7 with the following text: Next, I believe that nothing requires the termination of these proceedings until this particular feature, namely those which are not finished. Why don't we make a decision to shut down the proceedings that are, say, five or ten years old, by that logic? If we agree with this proposal of the working group, I believe that we will create a legal uncertainty not only in relation to the pending proceedings under the Law, but also in respect of all future proceedings, as there will be one ugliness for the applicants in a subsequent decision to amend the law to also terminate their applications and not be dealt with. In this case, without any motive, I still say I didn't hear any motives. We have learned from the opinions in the Legal Committee that it concerns more than 100 applications submitted. I would like to point out that they were all submitted in the previous order, which was in effect before 12 March 2021, namely when obtaining Bulgarian citizenship through investment concerned investment in government securities, because after 12 March 2021 the Investment Agency ceased issuing certificates in the new order, which was then adopted by the legislator of the then National Assembly. If we're talking over 100 pending files at 2 million. lv. We're talking about an investment that's already invested over 200 million. lv. in government securities, not in private companies, not in risky investment schemes, non-financial profits, but directly invested in government securities. What we're going to do if we accept this proposal is just to get that money back. Why? I did not hear reasons why I should return these already invested money in one for me not small amount. Next, I didn't hear any motives what would happen when we stopped these pending files and returned those invested money? Is there a legal possibility for these applicants to subsequently seek compensation in court because their case files have been terminated? I would like to draw your attention to § 9, which we are expected to accept in a little while, under which, anyway, within a six-month period, DANS will carry out checks on all the files that have been under this law. Anyway, we're going to check all the files, so why stop those who have already been properly filed in accordance with the current law? What's keeping the DANS from checking those over 100 files? Anyway, we'll check all the files, if they're legal, let them stay. If violations are detected, of course, let them be terminated and appropriate sanctions imposed. And in the Legal Committee, I have stated that I will personally support the proposal in § 9 for a complete examination of all files, there is nothing wrong with full verification. But anyway, we're going to check them out, so why don't we stop those who didn't finish them without any motive? Honourable Members, I would ask you to support the proposal, which is from the drafter, namely, the non-finished files to be examined and resolved, and not to be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u37	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to Peter Petrov? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. First of all, I put to the vote the editorial proposal made by Milen Mateev, in the name of the division, to add text to the list of finals, so that the name gets the following form: Eva Miteva? Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u38	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u39	Thank you. Pavel Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u40	They voted 149 MPs in the House and 1 online "150" total: 148 in the Chamber and 1 online " 149" total, not against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the entire name of the division, as has already been amended "Transitional and final provisions', as well as paragraphs 7 and 8. Eva Miteva? Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u41	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u42	Thank you. Pavel Christov? They voted 142 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online. 143 total: 130 in the Chamber and 1 online. 131 in total, against 12 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u43	Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 9: ..................................................... (1) Within six months of the entry into force of this law, the State Agency of National Security shall verify the existence of grounds for the cancellation of naturalization on all cases of acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship under the repealed art. 14a as from its entry into force. (2) In cases where the period of the cancelled art. 22, para. 1, t. 4 has not expired, the check under Paragraph 1 shall be carried out within six months of its expiry. (3) The Ministry of Justice shall provide the State Agency with information on the expiry of the time limits under the repealed art. 22 for each individual case of acquired under the repealed art. 14a Bulgarian citizenship. (4) Information on the results of the verification under para. 1 and 2 shall be granted to the Minister of Justice with a view to assessing the application of his powers under art. 31, para. 2. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: Paragraph 10 shall be inserted: ..................................................... In the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria art. 25, para. 1 of t. 6 to t. 8 including... to drop out......................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u44	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. I am opening a discussion on § 9 and the proposal of Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to create § 10 which is not supported by the Commission. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Mateev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 I am making the following proposals for editorial amendments to the texts of § 9, and the proposal is that the text of Bulgarian citizenship should become an acquired Bulgarian citizenship and at the end the words of its entry into force will be dropped.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u46	Okay. That's al. 1 of § 9 to be replaced by the acquisition. In other words, it becomes a case in all cases of acquired Bulgarian citizenship according to the order of art. 14 a.m. and a.m. due to its entry into force. the following point (a) is inserted after point (b) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i)
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u47	And one correction by para. 3 in order to specify the text after............................................................................................... The following shall be added to the list: 1, t.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u48	In para. Article 3 of the repealed art. 22 put a comma and the text. 1, t. The expiry of the time limits under the repealed art. 22, para. 1, t. 4. Thank you. Replices to Milen Mateev? I can't see. For a statement? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u49	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the vote on these final paragraphs on the proposed draft bill, the Bulgarian State will finally cancel the possibility of acquiring citizenship against investment, the so-called gold passports, which caused brocades not only in our country, but also in the international press, and in the European Commission and institutions. So far, after many years of trying our country to take advantage of its citizenship, as others have done to attract investment. These attempts were not successful, on the contrary, a scheme was created. Therefore, in the process of work, it is considered that these investments should be terminated, and the proceedings that have been initiated by this time in an old order, and should be said, in an older order, as proof that these investments were not ultimately those that we were looking for as a state, is the fact that after the past National Assembly and a special temporary committee created clearer criteria for which investments give this right, namely that they should be sufficiently sustainable, durable, real, creating jobs, then did not act as far as I am aware, nor any such request. Moreover, the Bill provides that, on a proposal from the DPS, which was adopted and further worked by the Working Group and the Commission, an examination of everything that has happened so far in these texts should be carried out. I think that this bill today, after it is adopted, on the one hand, will remove Bulgaria from the list of countries that are under particular surveillance on this issue by the European Commission, but on the other hand, is a result of deep reflection on how we can actually attract investment, how it should be legalized, how it should not be acted in a conjunctural way and how every idea can be reversed in practice in order to benefit from it people who eventually wave their Bulgarian passport around the country without investing who knows what in our economy. This is an important moment not least because it took several years for the National Assembly to reach this point. I call on you to vote on the texts as they have been reported by the President, including the technical amendments that have been made here in this House, and to note the fact that the Bill has been adopted unanimously by all the parliamentary groups, which is still an indication that when the issues are placed sufficiently well and they are worked on sufficiently expertly and calmly, even in the tense environment in which we live, we can agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u50	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines to Krum Zarkov? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I thank Mr. Zarkov for the words he said. Yes, with this law, we have put an end to a serious dispute over these years whether or not to have this investment citizenship. We managed to remove Bulgaria from the list of countries which the European Commission and the European Parliament pointed to for sale of Bulgarian citizenship. However, what we have failed to do, Mr. Zarkov, is the problem of staying on the basis of investment. Therefore, we will also submit the relevant proposals in the coming months to resolve this problem. Whether we cancel it entirely or introduce stricter regulation, we are about to see. In the form of this line, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups and congratulate the working group on the good work it has done. I will confirm once again the words of Mr. Zarkov and our opinion that when there are clearly defined objectives, when the problem is defined, we can all work together and do something useful for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u52	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Second line to Krum Zarkov? I won't. For the coat, Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Hamid, the question of so-called golden visas is also on the agenda. It is also on the agenda in Europe. You're well aware. You know that while we were debating the latest final versions of this bill, a debate was held in the European Parliament. The European Parliament adopted an own-initiative report on which Bulgarian MEPs worked, and Elena Yoncheva from the Group of Socialists and Democrats actively worked, which, however, did not make the same recommendation as for citizenship. It's definitely a risk. It is defined as a risk by the European institutions and will be walked, to the extent that at least the European Parliament has declared a common European regulation on this issue, and on this issue, namely, criteria similar to those we have introduced, but perhaps too late, for citizenship, so the issue is absolutely on the agenda. We did not accept this proposal of yours for its complete annulment because it seemed premature and insufficiently studied in view of the development of the European debate. But you are fully within your right to place it, and it will no doubt be on the Parliament's attention in the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u54	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. First of all, I put to the vote the editorial proposals made by Milen Mateev in the text of § 9. The editorial proposals are: in para. 1 of row four, the words "acquired' shall be replaced by "acquired'; also at the end of para. 1 comma and the text read since its entry into force shall be deleted; the last editorial amendment shall be in para. 3 of row 3 A semicolon shall be added to the comma and placed on the list. 1, t. 4............................................................................................ These are the editorial proposals. We vote 'em enbloc. Eva Miteva? Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u55	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u56	Pavel Christov? They voted 171 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. in total 172: 171 votes for the House and 1 online.. 172, against and abstention. The proposals have been accepted. We are going to vote on § 9, which is in the version of the Commission, in accordance with the editorial amendments already adopted on a proposal from Milen Mateev. We are voting §9, colleagues. Eva Miteva? Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u57	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u58	Thank you. They voted 170 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. a total of 171: 170 votes for the House and 1 online.. a total of 171, no objection and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Finally, I am voting on the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to create a new § 10 which is not supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. Eva Miteva? Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u59	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u60	Thank you. They voted 154 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. 155 total: 41, against 80 in the Chamber and 1 online.. 81, abstentioned 33. The proposal of Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs is not accepted. With this, the Second Voting Bill has been adopted and this has exhausted the item on the agenda. Moving on to the next point of the program: HEARING OF THE MANAGER OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH COSSE FIVE COSSE SALCHEV 110 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON GENERAL, EXPLAINATION, REMONT AND CONTROL FOR THE REPRESENTATION OF EXAMINATIONS AND EXAMINATIONS FOR THE NEEDS OF PEOPLE WITH CONVERSATIONALS IN THE LAW ON PEOPLE WITH CONVERSIONS. We voted on Petko Salchev last week for the hearing, so Mr. Salchev can be invited to the Chamber. Here you go, Professor. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is for you in connection with Mr. Salchev's hearing. Last week started this hearing and we heard here from the stands Mr. Salchev to express his opinion regarding the review of the regulations related to the provision and repair of medical devices, aids, gadgets and facilities. However, it has also not reached enough time to explain in detail what organisation will be established after 1 July 2022. When they really need to pass these items to the National Health Insurance Fund. My procedure is for you to ask Dr. Salchev once again to come out here from the stands a little more in detail to explain the organization that will be established after 1 July so that all MPs can get acquainted in detail, while also people who listen to this hearing, who are interested in these issues, gain more and real idea of what the procedures will be after 1 July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u63	It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u64	Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have an opportunity to listen to Professor Salchev. Those who understand the problem, because it is quite specific, I don't know if it is familiar with the problem in the necessary professional angle, are aware of how things stand. Prof. Salchev presented these last time, now it is time for a discussion in the Chamber. Any political power to say its opinion on this issue. There is a former minister here who was preparing part of the transition, he can also say what he thinks, we will say, and see what comes out of all of this. But the question is extremely serious. We can't keep throwing it around like the tyrant from one sitting to another, so we can prepare ourselves better so we can shine loudly. Whoever understands the problem will now speak and see, and again we can ask Professor Salchev's opinion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u66	Thank you, Professor. Technically speaking, an importer's statement was made in the past and the opinion by Professor Salchev was also made, so we are at the stage of questions from the parliamentary groups. Within the framework of the questions can certainly be addressed also the topic that Mrs. Zhekova mentioned and to hear the opinion of Professor Salchev. Let's move on to two rounds of questions. Is there a question for Petko Salchev? I won't. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mrs. Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Professor Salchev, in the specification of aids and medical devices for people with disabilities are rewritten lists that date back to the last century, and some of the funds inside are far from being able to be called modern. At the same time, you know that the amount of current payments is fixed by 2008, that is, there is no way to pay an average price for the last three years, because the amount of funds is fixed 14 years ago. In this regard, my question is: are you providing for an update to the National Health Insurance Fund's budget from July to update the list of new high-quality technical resources, possibly at what time do you intend to update the lists, because you know that new innovations are constantly emerging, and that would, of course, lead to a higher amount of payment? And why are there no criteria and requirements in terms of prosthetics and ortesis? Very detailed are described requirements that relate to dental dentures, but for manufacturers of upper and lower limbs requirements are almost missing. How will contracts be concluded with producers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Come in for an answer, Professor Salchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u69	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for asking. The specification is really outdated, we don't deny it. The specification and the money that is translated is actually based on this specification, which is provided for under this budget. The specification hasn't been changed for a long time. Under the new regulations. I would like to inform the Members of the National Assembly that the Interdepartmental Group is meeting today at its last meeting, as I announced last time, in order to confirm the four legal documents required by the end of this month to be adopted, and to propose to the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund a change in the National Health Insurance Fund Regulations relating to the administration of this process. I'd like to make a quick detour. What is a medical device and what is an aid? Medical devices are all those products that are related to diagnostic-therapeutic processes and are used during therapies. The aid is what improves quality of life. It's not about treatment, diagnosis and so on. It is in this regard that what Mrs. Sacheva said, ortesis and prosthetics are individual developments for the individual and cannot be mass production. This process has not been sufficiently provided for in the legislation so far, and therefore, in the new legislation, individual orts and dentures will not be widely offered by the relevant retailers and retailers, but the process of their production and payment should be developed to improve the quality of life of the disabled citizen concerned. The criteria and specifications for the regulations proposed by us, the lists must be updated every year when the auctions are launched. For this year, we have not had the opportunity to take any measures to update the lists due to the reduced deadlines and the need to change the regulations and this is already provided that every year the National Health Insurance Fund will adopt lists which, respectively, with the Agency for Persons with Disabilities and with other agencies, and with the representatives of people with Disabilities will be updated so that the allocated funds of the State are directed towards those people who need to improve the quality of life.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u70	Thank you, Professor Salchev. We are moving on to a question by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Salchev, from the exhibition you presented last week to the MPs, it is clear that it is finally finalized or we are up to the final of the topic, which lasts more than 10 years, and this topic is related to whether the National Health Insurance Fund has the right to pay technical assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices outside the scope of health insurance. Why do I say that this issue is extremely important? Because we finally have to assume that the granting and payment of these auxiliary technical means is part of the medical activity. Why? Because, thanks to the technical assistance, the treatment can be influenced in one direction or another. If these auxiliary technical tools meet certain standards and if they are sufficiently qualitative, this may contribute to a favourable development of the healing process and vice versa, but this is a subject with a continuation that can be discussed further. My questions are related to how reliable is the information connectivity between the LKK, between the National Health Insurance Fund, between TelK, NELK and the National Health Insurance Fund, how reliable is information connectivity with the Agency for Disabled Persons, where is the register of disabled persons entitled to technical assistance, and to what extent is information connectivity with companies providing technical assistance reliable? From this point of view, I can give some advice from the practice in recent years. The National Insurance Institute is the one committed to the electronic payment of hospital sheets based on such information connectivity, and this is the experience that can be used by the National Health Insurance Fund. The bigger problems lie ahead, because perhaps in the attitude we will express this topic, the main issues related to the provision, granting and payment of the technical assistance remain unresolved regardless of the new mechanism that is being proposed, but for this a little later.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u72	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Here you go, Mr. Salchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u73	Mr. Chairman, Dr. Ademov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A very up-to-date question asked Dr. Ademov about the connectivity of the systems. Yes, LKK and TELK have a separate system, the National Health Insurance Fund has tasked to connect these systems with the system of the National Health Insurance Fund of the State Company. We have set the deadlines until it needs to be up and updated in order to be able to take effect. The Agency for Disabled Persons has transferred all the database to disabled people to us. And since these are aids that will be written from the LKK and from TELK from now on, these registers will clearly have to be removed from the National Health Insurance Fund. We don't have an interface to the Agency's system for disabled people. The systems that belong to the companies that will be counterparties of the National Health Insurance Fund will be developed by the relevant companies - developers of information products, and we have set the requirements for the file content of these reports, or the so-called XML files that will be received in the National Health Insurance Fund, as well as the electronic reporting of invoices to us. So it will be as digitized as possible so that there is no so-called human error in the movement of these things. There are problems that need to be resolved in the future. We do not say that everything from 1 July will go smoothly, but we hope that it will go so that it does not affect the receiving of the aids and where we find gaps to be corrected together with the other institutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u74	Thank you, Mr. Salchev. A question from the BSP for Bulgaria. Professor Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear Minister Gokov, thank you for having responded to our invitation to come to this hearing and take an attitude towards him! Dear Professor Salchev, I, with all due respect to Dr. Ademov, will not make a comment. He did just one comment in the context of the question. Most of your questions have been raised, which are neural now, I will simply unite them and I will ask you after the systems do not speak actively, after the list Mrs. Sacheva said it contains, so to speak, terminologists who are... here are already telling me from the hall. [[GERB-SDS lines]] Once the deadline for the entry into force of this transfer, to call it in general, is in the holiday period, since you have 28 units against 132 of the Ministry of Social Services, do you think that we will not come to a severe disturbance of the system, and there are no ordinary people against us who are sick. If GERB could do this job, for 10 years they would have done it, they would have put a tape here that they had managed to solve this problem... The regulation was issued on the last day of their regular government's term of office "Principal No 7" and did not pass through the Council of Ministers, this is well known by Minister Sacheva. That is, I see in this an opportunity to create serious problems and I have also talked with associate professor Tonev, I have spoken with colleagues from the coalition format. It should be considered very carefully, to control this task force that organises the transfer, and if it is seen that this is not adequately prepared, that tension can be created in the most vulnerable part of the population... I do not want here, many of you have relatives who are disabled, I do not want to talk to the respected audience and Bulgarian citizens about what problems can lead to an unsuccessful transfer. So I ask you to answer me, as I spoke to you this morning here, you remember very well, do you really think this could happen on July 1st in the middle of the summer, after a trial period? If you intend to assure us that you will declare us as governor of the NHIF that this will happen without problems, I will accept your arguments by listening, of course, to Minister Gokov. Personally, I am very, very worried about both the time of the transfer and the way it has been prepared so far. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u76	Thank you, Professor. Mr. Salchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Mihailov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What I think or don't think, I don't think it's in my power. However, I believe that I must carry out what is at stake in the law. Since the Law said that we should take this action on July 1st, we will. I said that both in me and in my colleagues who work at the National Health Insurance Fund, there are fears of making a mistake and so on, but the law said that thing. Whether we have administrative capacity because you highlighted this thing, I can say that we are currently preparing in some way to achieve administrative capacity, but indeed the district cases are 28 have specific tasks. The maximum that we can separate from the staff in the district offices is between one and two people who actually have to stop carrying out their other tasks, and the directorate where colleagues work with the support funds is only 4 people. We said that thing last year when we were building the budget. We've given our signals. Whether they will be adopted and with the update of the budget on 1 July or not, it is no longer up to us, but after the Law has ordered it, we must implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u78	Thank you, Mr. Salchev. There is such a people? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Professor Salchev, in this whole operation there is another country that we have not commented on so far, this is the country suppliers. Here I would like to ask: is there a willingness to solve the problem of suppliers, as it is currently working for years, and it is working relatively well? Wouldn't in this situation in July there be a vacuum that would leave people unable to receive their funds for the absence of contracts? How are you going to proceed with contracts like this, competitions? Are you practically ready and prepared delivery providers for the aids? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u80	Thank you, Dr. Christov. Mr. Salchev, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dr. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! We need to talk about retailers and retailers, not suppliers. Wholesalers from last year had to submit their documents. Due to a change in the legal framework, the tender was terminated and now they have to submit their documents again on the basis of the requirements that have been developed. For retailers, we had... I do not know whether the problem has been resolved to a final extent because the requirements are to be registered with the Drug Executive Agency with the relevant requirements for these retailers. In addition, the retailer's perimeter has been extended not only to these types of companies, but also to pharmacies and so-called drugstores to participate in this process and to be able to provide people with disabilities with the aids. Yeah, I'm worried about this thing, who's gonna show up, how they're gonna show up, and whether they're gonna go to auctions, but that's the legal framework. We can't force someone to come to auction.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u82	Thank you, Mr. Salchev. From "Democratic Bulgaria" "Dr. Simidchiev," you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Professor Salchev, one of the main reasons for this transfer is the possibility of NHIF having a slightly more precise and more accurate medical control over this process, where you can see, for example, some incompatibilities that may have been obtained during the release of the aids. In this regard, a resource is needed in the NHIF to be able to deal with these LKK decisions. Is there such a process at the moment, are there people who can do this work effectively? Because, if it cannot be done effectively, one of the great reasons for transferring this process to the NHIF will not actually be able to be implemented in the best way. In this regard, I ask you to answer: is there a process in which the LKK protocols can be reviewed and assessed for adequacy and therefore be able to be challenged if there are discrepancies between the NHIF and the NHIF to be challenged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u84	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. Mr. Salchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u85	Thank you, Dr. Simidchiev. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A person who is familiar with the health care process must understand that the control of LKK, TELK is not within the competence of the National Health Insurance Fund. The qualifications of RZI and NELC are the control of prescriptions, diagnoses and so on. We are only as administrators to obtain the decision of the LKK or TelK and to carry out what colleagues have prescribed. It is in this regard that we have spoken with the Ministry of Health and with colleagues to define precisely and clearly the competences of these institutions in the discharge of the support funds and which LKKs are entitled to this, as well as currently has specialized LKK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u86	Thank you, Mr. Salchev. From rebirth? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Salchev, Ministry of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is willing to carry out the reform, which is waiting for so long, as Mr. Gokov said in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. From July 1st, as we know, this reform must be implemented with the budget. In this regard, we have learned that a working group has been established which has not yet come up with specific information on all issues that interest people with disabilities in connection with the transfer of these funds. In this regard, there is also an update of the list of aids both at cost and the inclusion of new modern and supportive means to be included in this list. Why hasn't the database, rules and mechanism been developed for a period of two years of your management, Mr. Salchev, and now, in urgent order, the working groups have to act on these things, by these rules and by these mechanisms? What's the reason for the delay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u88	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Salchev, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u89	Thank you. Yes, in the period of two years this process was not completed, but it is not within the authority of the manager, because it is clearly a matter of personal concern to me, not to the National Health Insurance Fund, to propose any amendments to legislation in other areas. The manager's only power by law is to offer a budget to the National Health Insurance Fund, signed in the powers. Here is Mrs. Sacheva and she will say how many times we met while she was a minister, how many times I met with the previous ministers to clear the processes and to tell what will happen with these aids. December we had a meeting with Minister Gokov and agreed on the operation of this interdepartmental working group, which is not a group of the National Health Insurance Fund, but is appointed by order of a minister who should draw up all these legal documents. And as I told you, today the task force has to propose for publication of the various departments, because it is not just one office, the different types of documents. Last night I have seen them to the last, so that they can be cleared, let's say, from some weaknesses and today the working group............... from the perspective of the National Health Insurance Fund has to offer them for acceptance and publication.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u90	Thank you, Mr. Salchev. We're continuing the Change? Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Professor Salchev, our question is as follows: is there a different order to declare repairs carried out by manufacturers of medical devices on an individual order? And in this regard: do you think it is appropriate for these applications to be submitted only in the RHIF, since they are 28 times one in each district city? And to compare, I'm just telling you that so far they've always been submitted to the Social Assistance Directorates, which are over 250 in the country. You know that users of these services are mainly elderly people who suffer from multiple diseases of diabetes, vascular diseases and so on. This will lead to serious difficulties for these people to reach these places and submit their applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u92	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Mr. Salchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u93	Thank you. Mr. Nedyalkov, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! These are the possibilities of the cashier's office (s) 28 regional offices. It is in this regard that we strive to electrolyze the process for submitting the so-called requests for repairs that will be, and otherwise the companies that will enter into a contract with us once we have confirmed the request, they must make or receive or repair the aid. That's the way it's supposed to be. However, the authorisation itself and the payment is required to be carried out in the regional health insurance fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u94	Thank you, Mr. Salchev. From GERB-SDS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Salchev, honourable colleagues! I want to deepen the issue of control that needs to be carried out with regard to the discharge of medical devices, aids, gadgets and facilities. A question like that has already been asked, but I'd like to expand it a little bit. Under the current provision of art. 112, para. 1 of the Health Act clearly defined the bodies entitled to appeal the minutes of the LKK, TELK decisions and decisions of NELK. Until now, the Agency for Social Assistance as an administrative body has the right to appeal against the LKK protocols where there is a discrepancy between the health status of the person and between the medical devices written. For example, if a person is lying sick due to a severe health problem, there is an anti-decubital mattress written, and in the record at the same time is written, for example, a walker, which basically means that there is a prescription of medical devices that do not correspond to the health condition, how will he guarantee the Health Insurance Fund that there will be no such uncontrolled prescription of medical devices? Also, again with regard to control, how will the control of manufacturers of medical devices, devices and aids be organised so that people who are disabled and who are users of this service have a good quality of the medical devices provided? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Mr. Salchev, you have the floor for an answer again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u97	This is what I wanted to stress once again that the problem of control is currently being solved by the draft regulation under art. 89, para. 8 of the Law on Persons with Disabilities, which today is being examined by the interdepartmental group. There will be put all the elements of control on the part of the National Health Insurance Fund, as well as of the other bodies involved in this process. So at the moment, until the legal document comes out, I cannot tell exactly how the control activities will be carried out. We gave our opinion by the National Health Insurance Fund to the interdepartmental group, we are waiting for the legal documents to come out. This regulation will be published for public consultation. I think Minister Gyokov will tell here what deadlines and how it will come out, as it is with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and then must be accepted by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u98	Thank you, Mr. Salchev. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Mr. Ali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Salchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! My question relates to this: are they prepared and adopted by the interdepartmental working group all laws and regulations relating to the topic................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If yes, are there any more unresolved questions? If your answer is no, on what basis have you entrusted the Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Mr. Salchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u101	The drafts in the legal framework, which are related to the transfer of the support funds to the National Health Insurance Fund, are now being examined by an interdepartmental group............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On what grounds have we entrusted the........................................................................................................ On the basis of the described business process for the implementation of these processes, which at the moment, if there is....................................................................................................... 89 of the Law I think it was, there are additional mechanisms involved, just going to be further processed and so-called controls in the information system. But we can't wait until the business process is clear. It is approved by me according to the requirements of the Law as early as last year, the autumn was submitted in the Service of Information to make the technical specification, it is claimed for development, so we have no reason to postpone this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u102	Thank you, Mr. Salchev. Do you have a second question from BSP for Bulgaria, colleagues? I won't. There is such a people? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is the result of all the questions asked so far and is related to the software service of this whole process from the declaration, through evaluation, through decision-making, communication with the individual companies that serve, and the opposite effect on the patient. Is it also foreseen that at what time this will happen and when the patient will be able to submit his documents online and receive his assistance at home at the address? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u104	Thank you, Professor Kirilov. Mr. Salchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u105	Thank you. At the exhibition a week ago, I said what the deadlines were. The requested request has been accepted and is already being co-operated by the Office and the colleagues involved in these processes, but they are not only on the part of the National Health Insurance Fund. There are included colleagues from the Drug Executive Agency and other agencies who monitor the transfer of data and so on. The program product by assignment and signed agreement has to be tested on 1 May. This is how the company has wrapped up the company. supplier.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u106	Thank you, Mr. Salchev. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Dr. Simidchiev again. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Professor Salchev! My question will be not so specific, but a little more manageable. We see that a significant part of the processes are changing significantly. What I know before is that the supply of some of these funds to the user's home was at the expense of some of the retailers and not wholesale. Given that we do not have any particular certainty that this will continue to be so, because part of retailers may decide not to register through the Drug Executive Agency and therefore not to be able to deliver and given that for me the main reason that has been claimed so far was that the medical control will be improved in order to transfer this process to the NHIF........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u108	Thank you, Dr. Simidchiev. Professor Salchev, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u109	I can't speak as a manager right now because I'm in another function, Dr. Simidchiev. If I have to speak as a manager or as a person who is involved in systems management at all, I would answer you. But right now. Yeah, there's a risk, we're reading it. Nobody says there's no risk. Each switch from one system to another leads to the respective risks. We are not saying or I am not saying that everything is so smooth that at first we will shake hands with everyone and we will be happy. Anything's possible. In addition, in the contracts for retailers that they will provide, we provide for the option for them to be on the sick and not all of the sick to be provided on the ground and for those who cannot visit the retailer concerned the option is provided for the authorised person to receive on their behalf. So all of these options are reasoned not only by me, not only by the experts of the Casa, but also by the colleagues who previously worked, by the Agency for Social Assistance who have dealt with this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u110	Thank you, Professor. From rebirth? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Salchev, you just said that you would provide several people in each regional health care fund to carry out the relevant assistance to people with disabilities. You also said that the testing of the electronic system that will provide the relevant connection will begin from 1 May. Will you succeed in this short period of training the people you have available to ensure adequate action so that they can carry out all necessary procedures to secure the necessary assistance for the disabled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u112	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Professor Salchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u113	Thanks for asking. Dear Members of Parliament, whether I succeed or fail depends on many factors. Depends on whether the system will be ready. In fact, we administer the system, we don't provide, we don't deliver and so on. These will be people administrators in the respective regional health insurance cases, which will monitor the movement of documents and ensure the process and the National Health Insurance Fund, because the very expensive support funds will be centrally monitored and will be examined by committees to assess the need to pay this aid, as is currently with the very expensive medical devices. Colleagues who work in the field of medicine know that we have several committees at central level. They deal not only with expensive medical devices, because some of them reach 130 BGN, and are also involved in monitoring the programmes that are being implemented. So my personal feeling doesn't matter whether I do or not. I'm obliged to do it. If the relevant risks are obtained, I must look for a way to overcome the narrow places together with the other institutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u114	Thank you, Professor Salchev. Colleagues, let's move on to expression of attitude. We're continuing the Change, come in, Professor Tonev. Prof. Tonev, Minister Gokov wants the floor. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am not surprised that there is a debate on this issue, because it is disturbing, of course, from the point of view of the continuity of the process, because these people are really vulnerable and must receive the services that are recorded in the Law. I am present here because initially, before listening to the debate, I had doubts that we would want a new extension of the deadline, that we would ask for a cancellation or something of this kind, and I know from the debate that there is no such thing and I understand from Professor Salchev that things are quite advanced. I'm not the only one who understands that, but the task force. I must tell you that the task force is working very seriously. I suppose there have been such working groups before and have also worked seriously on this issue. I will not comment now on why it has not come to the transfer within the terms laid down in the Law, people with disabilities, that is, two years ago, but the current working group headed by the Ministry of Health and representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, including the National Health Insurance Fund, is working very well at expert level, and I know from this interdepartmental group that texts remain to be finalized both by the regulation and by the transfer, and everything that governs the receipt of these aids and medical devices by the people who need them, and I have confirmation from the group that they will be ready by the end of the week. I, of course, also express not quite concern, but what to say may be a concern about the administrative capacity of the Health Insurance Fund to provide this service, although I, as far as I know, have provided state numbers in this direction.. I may be mistaken, but if there is no, perhaps it should be thought in this direction to strengthen administrative capacity. Without concussions, of course, this whole process won't go through. But I am convinced that, as the legislator has decided, the transfer of this activity to the National Health Insurance Fund, that this will increase the effect of all this activity, firstly, because there are quite serious funds flowing, which, in my opinion, do not have the necessary effect of these funds, that is, we cannot provide quite modern medical devices that people deserve. Here in the speeches it was said that the lists were not updated in financial terms and technological terms for a long time. I do not hear so much concern from people with disabilities who need these medical devices and aids, as concerns from merchants I am not even talking about manufacturers, but about traders with medical devices. Their concerns stem from the fact that these medical devices will be provided in a new order. However, everything new is disturbing when there are established paths, including unregulated relationships. Everything new is an obstacle to these uncontrolled relationships and other relationships built up over time, so these concerns are. I think the task force will do its job. Our task is also to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and to the National Health Insurance Fund, it is to pass this process in the case of at least shocks and without interruption. I think that with what we have done for these two years by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Agency for Social Assistance, by not letting the transfer process affect the provision of these medical resources, and already for two years, including the last extension of the deadline by three months until 1 July 2022. So on the basis of this work done by the working group, I remain hoping that things will go quite normally. By the way, now that I was on my way here, I have been talking to colleagues who are involved with the working group by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and I think it is right that they are also listening to the debate that is being broadcast online, and I have asked them to do a few things - a description of what problems the working group has solved so that we can present them to the parliamentary groups, so maximumly by the middle of next week you will have what the task force has achieved on the transfer of aids and medical devices from the Agency for Social Assistance to the National Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Docent Tonev, you have the floor to take the attitude on behalf of.. We continue the Change.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Professor Salchev, Dear Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! I allow myself to take an attitude towards you. I did not ask a question to Professor Salchev, but this is mainly due to good communication on this issue, and not only that we have in recent weeks. He also alarmed about some possible problems ahead. We have all heard that a seemingly good organization was created, the two responsible ministries participate with their qualified staff, but as we all know, the old Bulgarian custom usually confuses things at the end when the numbers are to be counted, to show the responsibilities. One of the major problems did not come into the discussion about what is happening with aid funds. These are aids because several times they were called medical devices when they were provided and their expiration date expired or no longer needed. There is also no control over what can be used again and what cannot be used again. All these issues are being considered and I have taken the liberty of saying that, apart from the establishment of an organisation, we as a political system and MPs, in particular, the Committee on Health, have a very serious attitude towards this issue. We have taken the liberty of proposing to the National Health Insurance Fund representatives of the Committee on Health to actively participate and discuss this process, to inform the National Assembly of the timely resolution of all these issues and again with a hearing of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund even before the end of this period, that we have good information as to whether these issues can really create problems, including with wholesalers, as has been mentioned just now, so that we can relatively easily go through this transfer, mainly administrative control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u118	Thank you, Professor Tonev. From GERB-SDS? Professor Baltov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, Professor Salchev, Minister Gokov! Some untruths have been said by Professor Salchev, who I would immediately like to disprove that the aids, facilities and medical devices should be distinguished between what is an aid and what is a medical device. The list of medical devices came out in 2008 and, for example, a hearing aid is being carried out, no aid is being provided. So the hearing aids, the talking aids, the prosthetics, they're all medical devices, they're not aids. So it is not right to say that in this case it was not about medical devices, they were under another paragraph. Ordinance No 7 was published in 2019, which gives instructions on how exactly under the Medical Devices Act and determining the value to which they will be paid, and it is updated on 31 March 2021. When updated on 31 March in one of the members it is written that no later than August, i.e. the same year, a tender must be made to take and clearly state which funds will be paid by the National Health Insurance Fund. We see that this has not been done in August, it has been postponed for vague reasons. Prof. Salchev did not explain why it was postponed, on what grounds, most likely because the National Health Insurance Fund even at the moment there is a disagreement with these aids, facilities and medical devices to go to them. In the firmness of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy we see that they will not allow this to happen after 1 July, so they really must do everything possible to end this process by the end of June. It made an extremely bad impression on me during the adoption of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and the Budget and Finance Commission when I personally proposed an increase of 12 million. lv. of the funds for aids, facilities and medical supplies, but then Professor Salchev said that there was no need for that was enough, even left of the money and was not spent entirely. In fact, there is no need for more money than 38 million. BGN, because it is evident that the specifications, first of all, are very old and separately take an average of the last three years, that is, in the last three years we have really nothing new in the case. There are many unresolved questions left, which I will, of course, ask them, but will hardly be able to answer by the end of June. I very much hope that they will really be able to do what is necessary to take on the aids, facilities and medical devices for people with disabilities. How is the quality of medical devices offered by medical devices when declaring a specification and the lowest final price of medical devices? It is formed by the products paid over the last three years, so will this really be the amount that will be valued and that will be paid? Currently almost all aids and medical devices patients or users are paying them back because they are not fully paid by the Ministry. How can new companies be allowed to compete on the basis of just one declaration? How is it acceptable for companies who do not have a quality system under a recognised European regulation to present their system, which will be adopted by the Cashier. That is, when individual means are made, they must meet certain criteria. There are companies that do not meet these criteria and they will be allowed by the National Health Insurance Fund to offer their products. The cashier has violated its own funding rules in this competition and does not require participants to have basic equipment, personnel and documents for qualifications. In fact, this is a serious anti-corruption condition that is not fulfilled in the development of these individual means. The register so far has not created logistics to work with this activity. It was also evident from the answers of Professor Salchev. I am worried that this will really happen, as it is right now, what happened to the refugees from Ukraine, we see that they, unfortunately, could not be served in time and I think at the moment the same will be done with the granting of these aids, facilities and medical devices. The register has no published documentation in which companies will report their actual activity. There is also no system of control published. In reality, there will be no control of the companies or of the issuing such funds. And last but not least, there is no application system by companies for new products and innovative means that can be supplemented by the end of the year. These tenders are expected to be made once a year and, unfortunately, when new facilities and funds are available, they will not be met. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In other words, what we are observing is that since August of last year, this specification has not been made available so far. In fact, we saw that in August last year Professor Salchev and then Minister Stoycho Katsarov had some other much more important things to do, and they did not really do the job they had to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u120	Thank you, Professor. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Come in, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u121	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Professor Salchev! In our view, the purpose of this hearing, of this discussion, is to support, on the one hand, the smooth transition to the new mechanism of acquisition of rights and payment of technical assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices outside the scope of health insurance. And on the other hand, to prevent some of the problems that would arise in the new mechanism of payment of these technical aids. Regarding whether this transition will be seamless, it is obvious that this cannot happen, but in any case we are satisfied with the fact that the question of whether this activity is entirely medical or entirely social is resolved. In any case, this activity is neither entirely medical nor entirely social, but is a medical-social thing that we need to take as a term because people with disabilities need to obtain quality and meet modern standards of technical assistance. Now with regard to whether the auxiliary technical devices, fittings, facilities and medical devices outside the scope of the health insurance meet the relevant standards, whether they meet the relevant quality of international standards, it is worrying what is written in the Regulation Can these internal quality assessment rules be promoted by I apologize for this term, let's say, recycled technical aids, which are imported from these countries, as is undoubtedly the practice that has so far existed. Next. There are several problems for which there are no answers in the new mechanism. What are these problems? For example, for no one is the secret agreement, the silent agreement between the one who writes technical assistance and the companies offering these funds. That's where the distortion of the procedures for granting technical assistance begins. And the other problem, which is again related to the quality assessment and standards for determining this quality. If an example technical tool is written out of a price limit, going to the healer, to the doctor who wrote these technical aids, at some point it turns out that there are much better ones on the market, with a higher price than the limit, and additional payments are required. The additional payment is what worries because it is not regulated in any way. The additional payment of technical assistance is the problem that cannot be solved with the new mechanism, and people are interested in this "to have a better quality of life with the help of these technical assistances so that they can lead an independent life in order to overcome an obstacle, obviously this list and this 38 million. BGN, which are provided, will not be enough. If we put this question to rest, if it is true that there is an update of the budget in the middle of the year, this 38 million. lv. they must be significantly more if we want them to meet standards and better quality. Because the practice has shown that with this financial resource there is no way to solve quality problems. So my hope is that in some way this discussion has contributed to solving the problems of people with disabilities, because, once again, these supporting technical means can lead to a better quality of life, but they can complicate the condition of the disabled person if they do not meet the relevant standards and the relevant requirements.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Prof. Mihaylov from BSP for Bulgaria, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Salchev, honourable colleagues! From my bitter experience, I have convinced myself that on issues that will blow up society, the hall is usually half empty, and this discussion is the same at the moment there are no more than one sixth of colleagues in the Chamber. I congratulate the importers on this discussion and the desire to have it held in the Chamber when I have become seriously acquainted with the problems and the level of their solution at the moment. From the very beginning of my speech, I would like to say that it cannot be very long - five minutes - is the regulation that hardly any of us can accuse Professor Salchev that one or another will not happen from 1 July. You can see clearly what the capacity of the National Health Insurance Fund is, the figures were said. The relations between the Ministry and the Cashier are not in favor of the Cashier, of course, as an operational capacity, but at the beginning of my speech I would like to watch a bit of Professor Baltov from his plan, in which he read here, as it was used in the barracks: all the irregularities that secured the Casa so that this smooth transfer would not happen. Professor Baltov, your political power for 10 years put this issue and its solution, transferred it from year to year into the budget as a solution and finally, as the Bulgarian people say, there is an exact word, narrowed it at the last possible moment in the hope that this mine will explode in the middle of the summer and then with a wise and cool tone those who know everything and know how to decide to say: "Did we tell you that there is nothing you can do? And on this point, you are incompetent....... but rest assured, we will deal with this matter and we will solve it perhaps not on July 1st, from now on, but we will resolve it in a manner that is appropriate. There are a few things that are serious and that I pay attention to those who do not understand anything about the problem. Now we're not gonna sit here and argue about what's a medical device, what's an aid. These things, such as definitions, are quite, how to say, elocantic and difficult to make exact differences, but one thing is important and Dr. Ademov said it because there is the experience of a former social minister, the biggest problem is the payments. And here's the first big mistake. I made a comparison with the 2008 Ordinance on prices for orthopedic shoes, and 2022. There is no difference. Inflation is over 200% over those 14 years. That is, the very price base of relations with this wounded contingent is very wrong, and now in these two months we will urgently have to change things, see how they will be composed, is it possible within the framework of the. However, there is an update, calm down, Professor Baltov, of the budget, and this issue will somehow be resolved. The second question was also said by former Social Minister Hasan Ademov. This is the question of the quality certificate. Thus formed the regulation, but neither by Professor Salchev, nor by the current government, but by those who wrote it, then published it on March 31st. "Tatiana from the Council of Ministers is my friend, allows for a vague definition. How was the internal control system? What does that mean? It doesn't mean anything. It is neither a European certificate nor an ICO. These are things that are not subject to any control and create an opportunity for very severe deviations.. I will not make other definitions of this tribune, but for deviations that are very serious. And the third problem, which can become very difficult discussion, with consequences especially for the people themselves who need help,.....................the disabled people. Note that there is a standardized production, which is on the scale that is large, of various types of aids. I will give you an example for those who are not interested in the problem, these are for example the Scholll mats, but when we talk about people with specific requirements, there is no mass production to be done, there are custom works made. [[(Replication by National Representative Hasan Ademov:]] They have a very serious price and this price falls entirely on the man who is struck by God and carries with him the grief of this injury. We will not allow as a coalition format to meet this problem suddenly in mid-summer, to begin, as some here said, tremors. Shakes, tremors, but it's easy to talk about tremors when it comes to looking at them on the side, and when it comes to people with disabilities, I don't want to hear it, it just can't go without tremors. Those people don't need tremors. They've had enough of life. So what Professor Tonev said, I fully support him. We will now make a very careful assessment of the work of this group, regardless of the nice words that it works hearts, we will see where the heart of the group is, what is happening and we will take our decision as a coalition format. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u124	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Professor Baltov, you want the floor for?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u125	Personal treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u126	Colleagues, no controversy in the room. Here you are, Professor Baltov, you have the floor for a personal explanation for three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u127	Professor Mihailov, in what you say, there are some gaps, because in Ordinance No 7 of 31 March 2021 in art. 57, para. 3, p. 2 writes: "Validite certificate according to the standard of BDS ISI 9001 for manufacturers of medical devices made to order, and for manufacturers and wholesalers of medical devices in Class 1." So there's this thing that has to have a standard. As for whether 10 years GERB has done nothing, you can see that in the last month of August until now, what is needed has not been done. If the NHIF wanted this process to go, they should have taken this attitude right after the Decree was issued after 31 March. It really didn't happen, and that's the truth. And the last eight months, when there was a government of two offices, we see that nothing happened then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u128	Thank you, Professor Baltov. There is such a people? Here you are, Dr. Hristov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u129	First of all, I don't think this is the time. At the moment it is extremely important to transfer political and now explain when is a week earlier, or a month later it is not serious, but I would like to use Dr. Ademov's words that this is about an activity that is not only medical but also social [[a line from the National Representative Hasan Ademov: "It is not social. "]] And we are now, Dr. Ademov, going and transferring to the National Health Insurance Fund, completely transferring this activity to medical activities, which is also extremely disturbing, but disturbing is what we hear here at a few moments. The first moment, it is that the types of means that will be are not yet known, the current list has not been made. The second disturbing moment, this is the link between the different institutions - Health Insurance Fund, LKK, TELK, it is also not known whether it will work and how it will work. The most disturbing moment, and what I said in my speech remains for suppliers. Imagine what will happen in one appeal, one lawsuit and another. That means we're gonna leave people for months without help. In this situation, we are forced, indeed, to take urgent measures, and the most important thing in my opinion is the launch of the electronic file, which is currently in operation, in the module that will concern LKK, TELK and the patient's health condition, so that this file can work and summarize all the others. Otherwise, if we continue to work in pieces, new tremors will be required in the coming months. So the Health Insurance Fund in this regard needs to get its head out of the sand a little bit and be actively involved in the work of the data transfer file, because this is the way to avoid the duplication that currently exists. If we don't solve these problems, right now I'm worried about the peace, because in the end I don't know if the National Health Insurance Fund understands that all the responsibility for the situation that's going to happen is hers. Standing here, and Professor Tonev, and we from the Health Commission, and the entire National Assembly, are the people who will not stop, to do what is required of us, so that we do not prevent the launch of this process, so that the responsibility ultimately gives us what we can do, or that we have to do legally is yours. Every escape you try to escape will end up with yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u130	Thank you, Dr. Christov. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you are, Mrs. Belobradova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Professor Salchev, I'm glad I initiated this hearing. It's obvious there's not one and two problems. I'd like to make a brief overview of what I heard at least. What conclusions can we draw from this hearing and it is so important for the most vulnerable part of society? We begin by saying that the list of auxiliary technical devices and medical devices has become obsolete. It does not serve the real needs of people with disabilities and the renewal of the list announced by Professor Salchev, which will be carried out every year is a long-awaited step. A serious problem is the time limit for the start of the entire procedure, and this is July 1st the period in which the NHIF should take over the administration of the process. Here today the manager of NHIF Professor Salchev took the responsibility for this to be the date the process will start. I heard Professor Mihailov say that after all it may not be exactly July 1st, but the important thing is to start in a qualitative way, because we cannot afford absolutely no tremors. We also understand that although the administration of the activity has passed to the National Health Insurance Fund, control of the LKK protocols is located in other institutions. This once again disrupts the process and does not give any improvement in the control of the release of the aid funds, several colleagues have already mentioned it, and by improvement I am referring to the cleansing of the system from the corrupt model and the connectivity between the suppliers companies and the people who prepare the LKK protocols. And how the LKK protocols will be controlled at all, for us this is a major problem and we have heard that we are waiting for a future solution. We have heard that even though the National Health Insurance Fund has prepared a digitalization of the process, applications for repairs will be physically available only at the 28 points of regional units. Many people who need repairing these dentures are adults and do not have the opportunity to participate in the digitized process. This will therefore make it extremely difficult to access. At all, as Professor Salchev said, there is a risk. The question is whether we can afford that risk. I therefore call on my colleagues from the Health Commission, as well as my colleagues from the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, Vice-President of which I am also the Commission, to examine this matter in detail together and to be as involved as possible. It may not be now, it may not be this week, it may be a month from now when we will have more clarity, but in any case with the participation of Professor Salchev it will be good to work together, together the two committees. And we owe that to every single disabled person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. From rebirth? Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After all, from everything that has been said and spoken here, it has become clear that the reform for granting, repaying, repairing and controlling the provision of assistance and facilities for the needs of disabled people under the Law on people with disabilities is at the stage of preparation. After two years of talk and expectations, after three governments, there is still no clarity as to whether the expected reform will take place and the people with disabilities will finally receive adequate, quality and modern aids. The mechanisms and the electronic system are currently being developed. There is no clarity whether this reform will take place by 1 July as much as the government of change is trying to achieve this goal. There are no updated lists of support funds, even the amount to be bet in the budget update, is not yet known. The question of compensation also remains controversial with the necessary support. The conclusions are clear. Someone either didn't want to or opposed this reform, which looks good, but is terribly late as a performance. Naturally, here I leave the false hopes of the tens of thousands of our fellow citizens with disabilities who have looked into the future, waiting for years for the solution of their problems, which are part of their existence. We will monitor this transfer and its realization, which, in our opinion, may be a bit like the toll system and its errors at the beginning, although this is not about cars and their owners, but about people who are already crushed by life. We hope that by July 1st you will disprove our concerns and this reform will go smoothly, and people with disabilities will receive the necessary assistance in the most adequate and correct way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u134	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. That concludes Professor Salchev's hearing. Thank you for your participation. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda, namely: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE HEALTH LAW. Reports have been received from: the Committee on Health, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens. The Committee on Health is the lead. Who will present the report? Docent Tonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u135	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-154-01-2, submitted by Elena Tsoneva Guncheva and a group of MPs on 10 December 2021. At its extraordinary meeting on 11 February 2022, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-154-01-2, submitted by Elena Tsoneva Guncheva and a group of MPs on 10 December 2021. In the performance of art. 72, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Committee on Health before discussing the draft law on substance, carried out an examination and found that it meets, in principle, the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The bill and its motives were presented by the National Representative Elena Guncheva, who informed the members of the Committee on Health that in the spring of 2020 a series of amendments to the Health Act were made which violated the principle of separation of authorities and questioned the democratic foundations of the rule of law. Extremely broad and compelling grounds for the immediate danger to the lives and health of citizens have been introduced, which in turn is a prerequisite for declaring an emergency epidemic situation. In the context of this extraordinary epidemic situation, extraordinary powers have been delegated to the Minister of Health to impose anti-epidemic measures which, unfortunately, the health ministers periodically use to restrict the fundamental human rights of the Bulgarian citizens through their orders, namely: the right to work, the right to education, the right to access public facilities and public activities, the right to cultural and spiritual life and the right to personal dignity. For months, huge groups of Bulgarian citizens have been systematically discriminated against by the orders of the health ministers. At the same time, from the beginning of the pandemic until now, orders are constantly being changed or revoked and replaced by new ones, making it virtually impossible to control them. The limitation of civil rights and fundamental freedoms by order of the Minister of Health shall be carried out by direct violation of the provisions of a number of Bulgarian laws, the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and international acts, including Regulation (EU) 2021/953 of 14 June 2021, which governs the legal framework for the issuance, verification and adoption of the digital COVID certificate of the European Union, thus contrary to the principles of law, justice and morality. Mrs. Guncheva stressed that the orders of the Minister of Health to introduce anti-epidemic measures against COVID-19 hinder the exercise of fundamental rights within the meaning of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. According to importers, the general administrative act, as ordered by the Minister of Health, cannot affect fundamental rights and freedoms which are governed by regulations. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria provides for the limitation of fundamental civil rights specified in the same provision to be restricted only on the basis of law. Although there is a norm in the Health Act that gives the Minister of Health the right to introduce anti-epidemic measures, there is no specific provision in the law itself that provides for limiting citizens' rights. Moreover, by order the Minister of Health can not force an unlimited number of Bulgarian citizens to be vaccinated, as well as to be tested permanently, which can also cause harm to their health. Mrs. Guncheva explained that on the basis of the above, it is proposed that an exceptional epidemic situation be announced by a decision of the National Assembly for a period of no longer than two months. In addition, in the body of the Health Act it should be explicitly stated that mandatory immunisation with medicinal products that have not fully undergone the clinical trials for their safety and efficacy and/or have a permit for use under a condition and that the vaccine against COVID-19 is recommended and voluntary. It is envisaged that the anti-epidemic measures introduced may not include a limitation of the civil rights referred to in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as obligations not explicitly mentioned in a law or discriminatory in relation to personal situations, including health. It is also proposed to repeal the existing preliminary implementation of the orders for the introduction of anti-epidemic measures, as well as to abolish the administrative criminal liability under art. 209a of the Health Act. In the Committee on Health on the grounds of art. 31, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly have received opinions from the Bulgarian Medical Union, the National Patient Organization and the National Network for Children. In the performance of art. 73, para. 2 and 6 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in the Committee on Health have received opinions from the Ministry of Health, the Expert Councils on Epidemiology and Virology of the Minister of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Commission for Protection against Discrimination and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of art. 73, para. 10 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly at the meeting were held a public discussion with the participation of representatives of the word, patient and non-governmental organizations who have provided written opinions on the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Health Act. The Bulgarian Medical Union in its opinion did not support the proposed bill. The National Patient Organization didn't support the Bill. The National Network for Children did not support the proposed bill. Assoc. Prof. Vasil Pandov presented the opinion of the Ministry of Health in which he explained quite extensively the different tracts and interpretations of the proposed bill. He specified that the provisions of art. 63 paragraphs 2 to 7 of the Health Act have already been the subject of requests to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria for establishment of unconstitutionality. The Constitutional Court ruled by judgment No 10 of 2020 in Constitutional Case No 7/2020, rejecting the request to establish unconstitutionality of those provisions, not finding that those provisions were contrary to the rules or principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. With other arguments, Associate Professor Pandov informed the MPs that the Ministry of Health does not support the bill under consideration, as the Decision states that: "Because the exceptional epidemic situation by law is declared for a certain period of time, the anti-epidemic measures taken during the period are also temporary. Also, in so far as, in different stages of the development of the contagious disease, the level of infection of humans is variable, as well as the ability of the health system to respond to the infection, the individual anti-epidemic measures cannot be constant throughout the period of the exceptional epidemic situation. It is wrong to expect that the Law could set a deadline for the introduction of anti-epidemic measures from now on. With the wide variety of infectious diseases under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act, which could be the basis for introducing an exceptional epidemic situation, their specifics of epidemic manifestation and spread, as well as the unpredictable response in human behaviour to the emerging danger, the definition of a legal period that is applicable to each of the anti-epidemic measures is unrealistic. "In the same decision, the Constitutional Court stresses that: "In the presence of an emergency epidemic situation, it is clear that not only the constitutionally guaranteed right to life and health of every person but also of a particular community is threatened. This situation threatens in an extremely serious way not only those rights, but may also affect other fundamental rights and freedoms, the right to enter the territory of the State, the right to free movement in it, the right to visit certain public places, the right to work and others. When such an environment arises, it is undeniable that citizens are called upon to give priority to the protection of values of the highest order before the protection of their civil rights and freedoms. The reason for this is that the risk of loss of human life and damage to human health is a threat to all other human rights and freedoms, as well as to democratic order. To fulfill his positive obligations under art. Art. 28 and Art. 52, para. 3 of the Constitution, the State is in its power to take any active action to ensure the lives and health of citizens. The opportunity given in art. 63, para. 4 - 7 of the Health Act to limit the exercise of certain rights is in line with the principle of proportionality, since the contested provisions do not go beyond what is appropriate and necessary to achieve the legitimate objectives pursued by the legislation in question. The limitations on the exercise of certain rights of citizens laid down in art. 63, para. 5 and para. 6 of the Health Act are necessary in order to limit the spread of the contagious disease and its management and are proportionate to the pursued objective of protecting the lives and health of citizens. The right to free movement, economic freedom and the right to work are not absolute and give way to the need to ensure the achievement of the priority objective of guaranteeing life and protecting citizens' health. The state intervention here is not only constitutionally tolerated, it is publicly needed and socially justified by the legitimate objective of the Law.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. These were the other arguments put forward by Associate Professor Pandov, who informed the MPs that the Ministry of Health does not support the bill under consideration. The written opinions of the Expert Councils on Epidemiology and Virology of the Minister of Health state that the philosophy of proposed changes is characterized by a disregard for the science of combating infectious diseases, specifying that in the complex of anti-epidemic measures for prevention of air-drop infections vaccination takes a leading place. Attention is paid to the fact that vaccines against COVID-19 have undergone the same clinical trials of quality, safety and efficacy as any vaccine that has been authorised under the current Bulgarian and European legislation. The huge size of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has taken millions of lives around the world, has imposed a reduction in the procedures for examining the documents of the candidate-vaccines and the deadlines for obtaining a marketing authorisation. It is stressed that monitoring on the safety of vaccines continues on the part of the European Medicines Agency and following their licensing and broad use. It is clarified that immunization against COVID-19 is not only a condition for access to work, education and public areas, as individuals who have been infected with COVID-19 and those with negative PCR or antigen test do not have restrictions on access to work, education and public places. The persons with contraindications for a particular vaccination are not subject to the application of the corresponding vaccination in the framework of the vaccination calendar in force in the Republic of Bulgaria. It is stressed that the duration of the exceptional epidemic situation depends on the nature of the epidemic process caused by a pathogen and cannot be restricted within the framework of a law. The emergency epidemic situation should be announced by a decision of the government responsible for implementing the anti-epidemic measures. The period of the anti-epidemic measures introduced should be determined by the specificity of the specific disease and its cause and not by a strictly defined administrative period. The measures listed in the Bill are incomplete, very general in nature and their explicit listing would result in unnecessary limitation when implementing the relevant measures. The nature of non-pharmacological anti-epidemic measures depends on the level of morbidity and mortality and on the level of pressure on the health system. If necessary can also be applied in restrictive measures such as work from home, distance training of students and students, limitation of public gatherings, closing of public facilities and others. It should be reconsidered how appropriate it is to provide all citizens with free personal protective equipment and disinfectants, bearing in mind that such a practice does not even exist in highly developed Western European countries. In conclusion, it is pointed out that the protection of public health is a high value which the state should provide and protect. It is precisely the provision and protection of public health in times of pandemic that justifies the temporary limitation of certain individual rights within the framework of the law. The supplement to immediately notify the National Assembly of the measures put in place is unnecessary in view of the development and accessibility of information technology. The opinion of the Ministry of Finance states that it is not clear from the documents of the Bill whether the financial aspects and budgetary effect of the proposal in question have been examined in advance. The reasons do not contain any information on the expected results and an assessment of the financial consequences of the implementation of the Bill on the State Budget and the Budgets of the Municipalities in relation to the additional commitments of the state and municipal authorities to serve to make a reasoned decision. It is noted that the proposed changes lead to additional commitments for the state budget, respectively for municipal budgets, to implement the measures that would take place in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation, including providing citizens with free of charge with personal protective equipment, disinfectants and others. It is stressed that, in order for the measures to be feasible, it is necessary that the estimated costs of their implementation comply with the common public sector financing strategy and priorities and be linked within the framework of the general budgetary parameters for the relevant year, which is part of the fiscal strategy for maintaining macroeconomic stability and fiscal sustainability. In this regard, the Ministry of Finance does not support the proposed amendment and supplement to the Health Act. The Ministry of Education and Science does not support the chosen one in § 1, item 1. 2 of the draft approach and considers it unjustified for the immunization of COVID-19 to be subject to a special legislation other than that established for other types of immunizations without having a general difference. It is noted that at present immunization against COVID-19 is not a condition for access to education for all children and students in the system of pre-school and school education as well as for all students in the system of higher education. Conditions have been established for exercising the right to education in a way that takes into account the need to protect the health of all participants in the educational process. The proposal under § 2, point is also insufficiently justified. 1 related to a change of authority, in whose power is the announcement of an exceptional epidemic situation, which the Council of Ministers will move on to the National Assembly. This would make it difficult to operate when making such a decision which, in times of crisis and exceptional circumstances, is of particular importance. The proposal does not take into account the fact that, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, it is possible for a certain period of time in the country not to have a National Assembly in place. Also the one provided for in § 2, t. 1 of the draft maximum period of declared by a decision of the National Assembly an exceptional epidemic situation would contribute only to the additional load of the work of the Council of Ministers and of the National Assembly, insofar as no limitation is provided for in respect of the number of decisions adopted to announce an exceptional epidemic situation. Where necessary, a notice of an exceptional epidemic situation for a period longer than that referred to in Paragraph 2 shall be made. 1, new proposals will have to be submitted every two months and new decisions will be adopted accordingly to announce an emergency epidemic situation. In this regard, the proposal is inappropriate and should be removed from the contents of the Bill. It is emphasised that what has been done in § 2, t. 4 a proposal with regard to the temporary limitation of the working regime of public-use establishments for a period of not more than 5 days would create a risk to the life and health of children, students, pedagogical and non-pedagogical staff in schools and kindergartens, students, teachers and administration of higher schools, as schools, kindergartens and higher schools fall within the scope of public-use subjects. It is noted that the cessation of the attendance educational process is an anti-epidemic measure which is applied after an order of a competent authority, but the same does not stop the educational process as an organisation was established in its introduction to switch to training/pedagogical interaction from a distance to an electronic environment by using the means of information and communication technologies. In this regard, the transition to training/pedagogical interaction from distance to electronic environment after an order of the Minister of Education and Science does not introduce a restriction on the right to education, but only changes the way it is conducted. In conclusion, it is noted that despite the exceptional epidemic situation and the increased number of infected, including children, the government has taken a maximum sparing approach to children and students, such as the need to suspend the presence of education/pedagogical interaction, is assessed and introduced for each individual class, school, settlement, municipality, area separately, the measure is applied locally and is always based on an order of the Minister of Education and Science to switch to training/pedagogical interaction from distance to electronic environment. In the written opinion of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, the text of art. 63, para. 10 is defined as inadmissible because it is thus limited by law to the application of art. 166, para. 2 of the Administrative Procedure Code on the suspension of the preliminary execution of the act, which is entirely and solely at the discretion of the court. It is clarified that in the event that the suspension of the prior implementation is subject to a Commission decision on protection against discrimination, it is necessary that the act has a stabilisation, i.e. it has entered into force. This proposal, directly related to the activities of the CDC, is in breach of the hierarchy of regulations, since a proposal has essentially been made to derogate from an existing legal rule of a higher degree, such as the Administrative Procedure Code, which is legally inadmissible. It is stressed that it is a fundamental requirement in European Union law that all measures taken be seriously assessed in terms of their necessity. Art. 63, para. 4 states clearly that the anti-epidemic measures introduced cannot include obligations which are not explicitly referred to in a law or are discriminatory in terms of personal situation, including health. The text of art is also in the same spirit. 59, para. Art. 4 and art. 63, para. 6 of the Bill. It is noted that the proposed texts thus introduce an absolute prohibition, without taking into account the principle of proportionality, the aim of which is, on the one hand, to prevent excessive restrictions and undesirable effects and, on the other hand, to ensure that the objective pursued is achieved in an objective and reasonable manner. In the present case, the measures taken should be necessary, adequate and reasonably justified, which would exclude infringements of the Law on Protection against Discrimination. There is no doubt that the need to adopt measures in the event of a threat to the lives and health of citizens, and the emphasis here is that the measures should be adequate and proportionate to the objective pursued. Actions taken by the relevant authorities and institutions should be universal, accessible, timely and sparing. The Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria allows the limitation of fundamental rights to be done by law to introduce the standard for this limitation. Eligible restrictions are most often for the protection of public interest, which is a priority in relation to the individual's personal rights and freedoms in the situation of emergency. In conclusion, the Commission for Protection against Discrimination states that national security, national health, public order and morals are values for the protection of which the exercise of a number of rights and freedoms may be restricted for a certain period of time, which would not justify a breach of anti-discrimination legislation. The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria informs the Members of the National Assembly that the proposed free provision of personal protective equipment and disinfectants to citizens on the territory of the municipality, financed by the municipal budget, other than spending funds beyond those provided under the Public Finance Act, also imposes the creation of a special organisation in each municipality for the ongoing management of the activities for the period of the duration of the anti-epidemic measures. This will burden municipalities, especially small municipalities, with non-military functions and additional costs. According to the association, the supply of disinfectants and personal protective equipment to individual citizens is their personal choice and public responsibility, and if they are accepted to be financially supported as an expression of social solidarity, this approach is entirely within the prerogatives of state policy, given that according to the European Charter of Local Self-government, the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Public Finance Act, municipal budgets are autonomous. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health indicated that when discussing the proposed bill, the medical aspect of the issue should be taken into account, not just the legal aspect, as well as the distinction between an emergency situation and an emergency epidemic situation. It was stressed that the existing provisions of the Health Act have already been subject to consideration by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria and it has stated that those provisions do not conflict with the norms or principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. As regards the quality and safety of vaccines against COVID-19, it was noted that the current Bulgarian and European legislation lists the specific procedures by which medicinal products are authorised for use in Bulgaria and in the European Union. It has been noted that there is no operational, regulatory and medical logic that justified the need at law level to provide that the vaccine against COVID-19 is recommended. Under the Health Act, the immunization calendar is subject to a regulation of a regulation, as public relations in this area are extremely dynamic and are subject to frequent change. It was noted that according to art. 10, para. 1 of the Law on Laws public relations of the same area are governed by one and not by several regulations of the same degree. The special law in the field of medicinal products is the Law on medicinal products in human medicine and since this law specifies which medicinal products may be used in the Republic of Bulgaria, the same provisions cannot be repeated in another law, but named in the Law on Health. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, the draft amending and supplementing the Health Act No 47-154-01-2 submitted by Elena Tsoneva Guncheva and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 10 December 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u136	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Let us now hear the report of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I thought we'd finish the reports and then give the break after the break and start with the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u137	Honourable Members of the National Assembly: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-154-01-2, submitted by Elena Tsoneva Guncheva and a group of MPs on 10 December 2021. At its regular meetings held on 2 and 9 March 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-154-01-2, submitted by Elena Tsoneva Guncheva and a group of MPs on 10 December 2021. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Health Mr. Iliya Tasev, Director of the Public Health and Health Control Directorate. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Elena Guncheva, who pointed out that in relation to the declared pandemic of COVID-19 legislative changes to the Health Act were introduced, which delegated extraordinary powers to the Council of Ministers to announce an exceptional epidemic situation and to the Minister of Health to impose temporary anti-epidemic measures. She added that the orders of the Minister of Health create unequal treatment of citizens and restrict their civil rights, such as the right to work, the right to education and the right to access public facilities. The draft amended the terms and conditions for declaring an exceptional epidemic situation, proposing the decision to be taken by the National Assembly instead of the Council of Ministers, and changing the deadlines, conditions and rules for imposing temporary anti-epidemic measures. The draft law aims to regulate at the legal level the voluntary nature of vaccination against COVID-19 and to specify the powers of the health minister to dispose of temporary anti-epidemic measures, allowing the use of immunization preparations only with fully studied medical products that have passed the standard conditions and requirements for their testing. An exception to the vaccination obligation is envisaged when medical contraindications or religious reasons are present and, as regards immunization against COVID-19, a ban on the disposal of temporary anti-epidemic measures which may lead to restriction of access to education, labour or public places is proposed. The administrative criminal liability for breach or non-compliance with anti-epidemic measures is proposed and reduced time limits for appeal of the Minister of Health's orders are laid down and the grounds for suspension of the preliminary implementation are also set out. The draft law also provides for the free provision of personal protective equipment and means of disinfection to citizens when temporary anti-epidemic measures are announced. The representative of the Ministry of Health pointed out that the Ministry did not support the proposed bill. Mr. Tasev clarified that all vaccines offered in the country are authorised for use under the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine or Regulation No 726/2004 and vaccination is voluntary. On the occasion of the powers of the Council of Ministers to declare an exceptional epidemic situation, the Minister of Health should issue provisional measures, as well as the proposed restrictions on the temporary anti-epidemic measures, he added that these rights, obligations and powers were the subject of an analysis by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, which, by Decision No 10 in Constitutional Case No 7 of 2020, pronounced and accepted that the provisions of the Health Act comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Tasev added that state intervention to restrict citizens' rights under the current provision of art. 63 is proportionate and proportionate to the objective pursued, which is to protect the lives and health of citizens. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Iva Miteva and Milen Mateev. Mrs. Miteva said that from the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" believe that the legislative initiative is properly aimed at changes in the Health Act, but disagreed with the contents of the bill. She added that when establishing the provisions in force in art. 61 and 63 of the Health Act are carefully analysed and so refined to comply with the basic law, which is confirmed by the decision of the Constitutional Court confirming the powers of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Health. The National Representative clarified that the Bill mixed the institutes of emergency and the emergency epidemic situation, and the proposed criteria for immediate danger to the lives and health of citizens defined as too wide. It expressed the need to consolidate executive legislation and acts in order to achieve clear and sustainable rules. The President of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs pointed out that the Health Act sets out the general framework for protecting citizens' lives and health and disagreed with the proposal proposing the creation of explicit rules on immunization against COVID-19 separately from the general provisions of the Health Act. Mr. Mateev said he would not support the submitted bill. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Issues with 1 vote, 9 votes against the Constitutional and 9 votes, abstention and abstention, proposed that the National Assembly not adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-154-01-2, submitted by Elena Tsoneva Guncheva and a group of MPs on 10 December 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u138	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, for a summary of the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-154-01-2, submitted by Elena Guncheva and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 8 March 2022, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-154-01-2, submitted by Elena Guncheva and a group of MPs on 10 December 2021. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Elena Guncheva. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Health and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Ministry of Health does not support the bill. On the part of the Association of Municipalities, an opinion is expressed only under § 2 of the Law and is proposed to repeal the second sentence of paragraph 2. 6 concerning the amendment of art. 63, para. 9. Following the presentation of the bill, a vote was held, as a result of which the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government by 1 vote........................................................................ and 8 votes.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Ananiev. Only the Report of the Commission on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens remains. Here you are, Professor Chorbanov, for a summary of the report. Then I'm taking a break, guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-154-01-2, submitted by Elena Tsoneva Guncheva and a group of MPs on 10 December 2021. At a regular meeting held on 10 March 2022, the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-154-01-2, submitted by Elena Tsoneva Guncheva and a group of MPs on 10 December 2021. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ilija Tasev, Director of Public Health and Health Control at the Ministry of Health. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the National Representative Angel Georgiev, who informed the MPs about all the events that came from the epidemic with a Kovid.Everything they just mentioned in the other reports. The right of movement, the right to work, the right to education and a number of other rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are limited. There are frequent cases where, if no negative test or vaccination certificate is provided, citizens are not allowed to work, and many of them are fired or have problems with their employer. The distance and attendance training of students are constantly changing, and the quality of education is undoubtedly getting worse. In general, all factors relating to these measures. The Commission has received an opinion from the Ministry of Health which does not support the submitted bill. It was presented by Mr. Tasev. With regard to the proposal relating to the introduction of a prohibition on compulsory immunisation, he noted that at present, by Decree No 15 of 2005 on immunizations in the Republic of Bulgaria, the immunization against COVID-19 was defined as a recommended and non-compulsory nature. The determination of mandatory, targeted and recommended immunizations, reimmunizations, way, deadlines are subject to the Ordinance under art. 58, para. 2 of the Health Act and the legal regulation of conditions for carrying out only one type of immunization is unfounded. The Constitutional Court has ruled on the question of the legality of the measures taken and has not established the existence of infringements. The main objective of anti-epidemic measures is to control the development of the epidemiological process. In the subsequent discussion, the President of the Commission, my mercy, noted that the problems arising as a result of the continuing two years of emergency were not caused by a deficit in legislation, but by its incorrect interpretation, as well as by the weak activity and control of civil society in relation to the measures introduced. At present, vaccination policy has been strictly regulated by a regulation. The proposed changes to legislation concerning only one vaccination would, to some extent, restrict the State's ability to react adequately in view of the dynamics of public relations in this area. People's representative Vasil Stefanov paid attention to the public discussion on the proposed changes to the Committee on Health and the opinions received by NGOs and state institutions, in detail argued and united around the idea that the bill should not be supported. Following the vote, the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens with 3 votes.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u142	Thank you very much, Professor Chorbanov. With this, we have exhausted the reports of the Committees on the Bill. Now I'm giving it till 12:00, then we'll resume the meeting. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u143	I'm resuming the hearing. I'm opening a discussion on the bill so tabled. Are there any people who want to make a statement, colleagues? Nikola Dimitrov, come in for a procedure
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We'd like to check the quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u145	Mr. Dimitrov, we haven't taken a vote. The discussion may begin. An importer's opinion please, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues in plenary, and you downstairs in the chair, who are you right now! I will make an opinion as importers of this bill. I'll stick to his philosophy. The idea that we are making this legislative proposal is in two directions. The first main part of the proposals that we make with the amendments to the Health Act concerns the announcement of the so-called exceptional epidemic situation, which so far is announced by a decision of the Council of Ministers, and we propose that this be done by an act of the National Assembly. The reasons are as follows: we believe that in the last two years it has been shown that the so-called emergency epidemic situation represents an animal, figuratively speaking, which has both paws, hands, legs, gills and wings and is presented by the various authorities as beneficial to them. Accordingly, the public bites on this presentation and takes into account what the various governments tell them, whether they are regular or professional. In fact, the purpose of this to be presented in this way is only to allow the executive to one kind of jump, to derogate the National Assembly, to drive and hang itself, and to tell what to happen in the state. I heard the Health Commission report that there was a difference between the emergency epidemic situation adopted by a decision of the Council of Ministers, on the one hand, and the emergency situation adopted by a decision of the National Assembly, on the other. I don't see the difference. The difference is only one thing, namely that when the Council of Ministers decides to introduce or extend the emergency epidemic situation accordingly, he cars and gallows does whatever he wants without absolutely no control and without absolutely absolutely no responsibility of the Council of Ministers. Only that and that is all we wish to change, taking into account the raised slogans of the ruling coalition in the formation of the present National Assembly that it will not be a rubber seal of the executive power. That is why we have decided with this legislative proposal to give him powers that no longer lie in the Council of Ministers, but that we, colleagues directly elected by citizens, can decide when to introduce this extraordinary epidemic situation and for what period. We have even pointed out a proposal for a two-month period for citizens to have clarity and predictability. And this responsibility lies on us, as the emergency epidemic situation will remind you that it concerns citizens throughout the country. It concerns all Bulgarian citizens. The second part of our proposals concerns the orders issued by the Minister of Health, which affect the rights and interests of citizens, businesses, public institutions, measures and restrictions are being created. From what we have seen in the last two years of the many issuing orders from the various ministers, we believe that there is no predictability of the measures and restrictions imposed by the ministers by these orders. That is why, with our proposal, we aim to explicitly list these measures and restrictions that the ministers can impose so that, on the one hand, no constitutional rights of citizens are violated but, on the other, citizens, public institutions and businesses know what they can expect as measures and restrictions. For example, we have provided for all public sites a five-day period of introduction of restrictions on their activities. And now, the private business will know what it can tolerate as an inconvenience with the introduction of such orders. I'll give you an equivalent example of civil law. In the last two years, when we have concluded rental contracts with tenants of commercial feeding sites, we have already included in the relevant force majeure clause a description on purpose that, if an order is introduced to limit, say, all either 30 or 50% of the capacity of an establishment, or if it is allowed to sell food only for home, but still to work, we create rights for the tenant to obtain the corresponding partial or total absolution of the respective rent. And that is one case, when the tenant signs such a contract, he has predictability and security in what environment and environment he will work. So far, good for the civil sector, and why should the Law also not have such predictability and clarity, if we describe what specific measures and restrictions the Minister of Health has the power to impose? Next, with regard to the proposals concerning the Minister's orders, we have created the power of municipalities to ensure technical security of the funds for the personal safety of citizens. Here I read an opinion from the Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria, which I am ashamed of, because they say: no, we cannot take such a responsibility, we have so far taken over only in terms of public sites, and the obligation of citizens and their personal choice was to secure protection funds. Well, when you impose measures and restrictions on them, why shouldn't the municipality take the personal means of protection? By giving you an example on many hot days the municipality buys and distributes free mineral water to citizens. So, in very hot days, the municipality can make such a commitment and make costs, but when we have, according to the majority of the exceptional epidemic situation, then the state, in the case of the municipal authority, can't intervene? Then why do we need a community at all, and why do we pay taxes at all? Do we all know that if, God forbid, the situation is much more serious, then the municipality, and without asking her, will accordingly make these costs.................. for free will help the citizens with personal protection? Then why shouldn't this be laid down in the Law so that it's clear to everyone? Next, we create obligations for the Minister, who is not deprived of the right to issue orders, to notify the National Assembly. In this regard, I read an opinion from colleagues from the Legal Commission that it was not known what the National Assembly would do when the minister informed him............................................................................................................. Uh, no, guys. The National Assembly, as we all see, has had extremely unlimited powers over the last three months. I'll give you an example right away. He can immediately accept a moratorium, and not only can he accept it, he can cancel it the next day and reschedule it again, colleagues, if he decides when he is notified by the Minister. He may adopt, by urgency, an express decision to hear the Minister, as he will soon adopt an express decision to hear the Ukrainian President. Here's what the National Assembly can do, I give you only opportunities. Therefore, the National Assembly must be informed of these orders of the Minister. The next proposal, which we consider to be very important, unfortunately, has not received any opinion and has not been discussed in the Commission, concerns the possibility and time limits for appeals against these Minister's orders, and we propose that cases be scheduled, dealt with and resolved within a very short period of time. We're proposing for a 14-day period, it could be extended. But my question is, honourable Members: why can't the appeal of these Minister's orders be within a short period of time and what is not useful in this case, since there is no opinion on this proposal, there is no such writing? Why should the Bulgarian court not be able to rule within a short period of time on complaints against these orders, when we all know that, as common administrative acts, they affect the rights and interests of unlimited circles of the Bulgarian citizens in this case, for the whole country. Wouldn't it be right for the Bulgarian court to rule quickly and say these orders are legal, are they not legal? We, in our opinion and reasons for the bill, have already indicated that, in the current order, until one hearing was scheduled on the Minister's contested order, it was at least so by the middle and end of 2021, it was cancelled by two or three other orders. We therefore believe that this proposal in particular can create legal certainty for Bulgarian citizens, and I personally do not see why it should not be adopted. [[(crowd cheering) (crowd cheers and applause)]] Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u147	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Professor Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The BSP parliamentary group will not support this bill, and I will try to argue to its importers with the fragments they have just presented as arguments of the importer, but with feedback. We must very carefully assess our options when entering an area that is very professional, such as healthcare, and the problems associated with it, and we want to impose legal dogmas in some way to put everything in legal form. This, of course, is the attraction of every person who goes around him in the world to be somehow realized in legal situations. However, that is not possible. Health legislation, I take the liberty of telling this to my colleague, who has so carefully put his arguments before me, has an extremely rich history. It is very conservative and at the same time over the decades. I must share with the entire Chamber the great satisfaction of modern medical science that, if we are talking about a lengthy continuation of mankind's survival, it is related to the fight against infectious diseases and on this basis a very stable legislation has been built. Since the tilting of the scales two years ago in one direction, which was disastrous, here the ruling then coalition, orchestrated by one political force, was practically smashed into the Health Act, the exact word is............................. with Ebola, cholera and plague, CIVID-19. I'm not gonna say that here on the stands were colleagues who were wearing protective suits and suits, some who wore gloves in the hall and what was not happening in the first days. All of this historically in time, I also quoted it in some political debates, but the experience that we have during these two years, the experience that the Institute in France quoted for the Study of Infectious Diseases, has such an institute there, not on infectious diseases, but on the study of infectious diseases, suggests that humanity has many times contacts with such pandemic phenomena and must always make the most sensible decision. This decision is balanced. In the proposal of colleagues from the Political Party, the aging sounds very powerful to this slogan: "My authority Sovietam! " "Everything to enter the parliament, everything to be decided in the parliament, it to decide when there will be an epidemic situation. This is exactly what the members of the Health Commission fought two years ago, or at least some of the members, the decisions to be given in the hands of the professional pool, the people who have knowledge of epidemiology, of infectious diseases, and to be clothed with decisions of the Minister of Health, who bears his responsibility, which is supported by these specialists, and he assumes this responsibility on behalf of the Council of Ministers. We had also suggested, but this was not accepted by the government at the time, that an anti-epidemic plan be implemented, which is a pyramid, in which a deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers is involved as a leader. But all of this is now coming in counter-journing, the instrument is tilting in the other direction, we want a quick tribunal in three days to say whether it is appropriate and possibly to sanction the Minister of Health; we want in the parliament where 240 people exist, but of them almost nobody knows anything about epidemiology. That is why the Public Health Centre came out, it is a government body not, but a scientific organisation, with the opinion of a 161-page report in April last year, I say it to the importers in which he officially stated, and this was the conclusion of many researchers of this infection that, unfortunately, mostly political decisions were taken, not decisions tailored to the specific epidemic situation. So there was even a desire from other colleagues to put in place a similar type of law to predict how a pandemic would develop, an epidemic within a country. These aren't possible things. The legislation has checked all of this over time, and for 100 years it has been more than 100 years since the first influenza outbreak registered in 1918. Similar pandemics were present in 1958, and in 1968 the flu vaccine was established in 1948, but its effectiveness is about 30% at the moment here Professor Chorbanov is against me, he knows it very well. These are biological processes that are monitored by experts, and they offer the legislator, not to offer them solutions that are purely legal, which are equivalent to the action of an elephant in a laboratory proposed and realized by people who may be empathetic with their hearts, but not with their minds to the problems that need to be solved. This type of legislation is therefore imperfect, unacceptable and will only be a burden of the Bulgarian legal framework. We cannot support such a bill and therefore it will remain unsupported by us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u149	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Are there any lines, coworkers? Petar Petrov and Kostadin Angelov then in whatever order you decide, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u150	Again, once again, I have heard how the National Assembly should not make decisions that were in the hands of experts. This makes this meaningless then the institution of the National Assembly because I was quite impressed by the fact that two years ago members of the National Assembly's Health Committee, you say, worked against them to make decisions and to make them experts. Be assured that in every sphere of the public device there are experts who understand more than the MPs clearly, and I think there is no one who will say otherwise. Does this mean we have to disband the National Assembly? Moreover, we are talking about an emergency situation, an emergency epidemiological situation which at some point turns out to be within the prerogatives and powers of a single person who can wake up in a slightly worse mood this morning and decide that he will punish the entire people for it and give him an emergency situation. That's not normal, okay? And what we're actually proposing is a restoration of the old situation. Peter Petrov said it and explained it and read it. We just want the old situation back. If you believe that it is not normal for the National Assembly to decide as a representative body representing the entire Bulgarian people to have or not to have a state of emergency, but to decide one person. [[Heckling]] Yes, you do. No, no, if you want to answer me then it's okay. But what we are actually proposing is a very simple thing: a return to the old situation before 13 March 2020, because you all remember why this amendment was made in the Health Act. It was made with a very simple aim: not to convene each time the National Assembly to vote on a state of emergency and thus elegantly fined the Constitution. That's the truth! And you're talking about pandemics, so I don't know what you're talking about?! Where is this pandemic? It's good to have the old flu back. So I ask you very much, when you speak, do not, first of all, humiliate the role of the National Assembly in this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u151	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Petrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Professor Mihailov! I will take a reply only in relation to the beginning of your speech that if I quote you correctly: "We must bear in mind our options when making professional changes. " Professor Mihailov, I claim that I have appealed a very serious number of administrative acts in the court, which is why we have made a proposal with our bill, on which, I repeat, there is not a single opinion in question the period of examination and ruling on complaints against the Minister's orders to be much shorter, and I justified why. Because these orders affect the rights and interests of a large group of Bulgarian citizens throughout the country. This is our proposal, and I believe that just our professional opportunities allow us to do so to request an expedition from the Bulgarian Court of Justice in order to rule out complaints of citizens and organizations against these orders. That's all I'm saying. We propose that it be 14 days, of course, between first and second readings, it may be suggested that this period be greater. Therefore, if I may, I would not agree with this part of your statement that we almost do not understand what we are doing and why we are doing it. I say again: we only want the deadline to be efficient. That's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u153	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Is there a third line? Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u154	Mr. Chairman, Professor Mihailov, with all due respect to you, what you said about making political decisions, and what you quoted as a document, excuse me. The political decision was made by GERB at five, six or 10 people who were sick to close the whole country, to put the checkpoint and all this madness that started then. That's how they formulated it. Then they decided it as a one-man solution.. Boyko Borisov, no matter who was then the Minister of Health and who turned around. There's no difference. This is a political solution, and that is exactly what it was, I suppose, let me not say that I am sure that this has been quoted in the document that you have pointed out. When such a decision on the basis of expert opinions that you have pointed out is presented to Parliament, examined and discussed here, a decision can be made and any political party can be held responsible for whether it has supported or rejected. This is exactly this place, and there is no difference between the different emergency situations being adopted, voting in Parliament, and this. Once again, I say: the country was closed with the checkpoint and all this madness began and escalated thanks to precisely such political decisions made by one person, and it was not the health minister, he was a performer simply by putting his signature on it. At the moment, we are repeating what I am going to say: we want to bring back to Parliament these decisions, important to the whole country, for absolutely everyone, to be here based on the opinions of people like you. Because you had a very strong professional speech nearly two months ago regarding the entire behaviour of the state in terms of epidemiology and about the whole thing that happened. You have made many arguments and many statistics not only of Bulgarian scientists... [[The President signaled the expiry of time.]] , but also foreign ones. I'm graduating. And it is precisely in such statements that Parliament may take a reasoned decision. And in this case, the legislation gives the Prime Minister the decision, whoever he is, to impose on the Minister of Health, to impose a measure and to close the entire country.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u155	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Professor Mihaylov for the doppelganger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad we kept the good tone in this debate. I can at least be accused as a lawyer of GERB or its President or his prime ministers. I want to tell you that the state of emergency has been taken, here is Dr. Ivanov, with full consensus from the entire parliament, and for one reason only. For one reason only, mankind had no idea, there were still so-called scientific drillings, attempts to solve the mechanism of infection, of contagiosity, of the level of mortality, but there was still no data collected in the world. Each new type of infection is a focus of the entire world's non-medical and political, and any community, and this decision has not finished the Constitution at all. I must tell you, then I remember when we spoke in the media as well, I do not know the colleague who spoke of a state of emergency, have you ever been to a country where there is an emergency? I don't wish you to fall. What was in Bulgaria was rather a cartoon of a state of emergency. Indeed, there were laughs: police chased mothers into parks, banned sitting on benches. Do you remember that thing? We were categorically opposed to this as a political force. There have been overreactions, but severe measures that allow a state of emergency, not for a moment allowed the ruling coalition, then the ruling party. This was with the help of BSP and was very well refined in the vote. It was only for one month and it went through this is quite different, Mr. Kostadinov. Let's not confuse these things, because neither you are a lawyer, nor I am a lawyer, so ask the lawyers. One thing is a state of emergency, another is an emergency anti-epidemic situation. And to want to confuse the National Assembly with it is absolutely unprofessional, absolutely unprofessional! So I don't think this issue should be discussed for very long. Everyone can practice from the stands and talk about anything. Things have to go back to their normal course of action. If there are changes to the Health Act, the first thing to do is to remove COVID-19 from the order in which it is placed along with plague, ebola and cholera. This should be done if you want to know, but not involve the National Assembly in making decisions that are not of its competence. I would like to ask you, as you so badly want this National Assembly to solve such problems, when for decades a flu anti-epidemic situation is announced in Bulgaria, did Parliament vote on it, Mr. Kostadinov? An emergency epidemic situation in relation to the flu, did parliament vote on it? You didn't vote, of course. So such statements do not diminish the role of parliament, but they lower the one who makes them out of the stands. So he doesn't understand what matter he's talking about, what angle, what angle he can look at this matter from. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u157	Thank you, Professor. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Professor Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u158	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints, we discussed very long and wide why our parliamentary group will not support the Bill. The arguments are basically two. One part is legal. Our lawyers have prepared enough arguments and texts that we have tabled, of course, and can be read, and this is a topic that I would not allow myself to discuss. Rather, what I will comment very briefly is the context of the bill. I'll probably be the last person in this room to be declared a protector of measures and everything that's happened in the last two years. Maybe I'm one of the most negative people in the world. It was clear that much of the measures that were taken and the reaction of both the public and the state were absolutely inadequate due to the complete inadequacy of this same society to react in such a situation. The state acted more reflexively than rationally, with proper norms and measures. The problem is that precisely one such situation cannot be put into a law that we do not know how to react to. There is no way that something that is not foreseen as an idea of how it will develop, is given into the hands of an organ that is by definition much more passive and much slower. The introduction of a problem of this nature in the debates of the National Assembly represents the participation of experts, committees, much longer than is necessary for a quick reaction. The problem was that it went on for a hell of a long time. The problem was that the National Assembly in all its forms could not be a concealer of what the government was doing. It is not scary that the government has its responsibilities and that it has its legal arguments to do one or two things. Why? The government is a replica of the National Assembly. The government is voted by the National Assembly. How can there be no control over what the Minister is doing? If a parliamentary group believes that the minister is doing things that are not in line with the norms, it may request a vote of mistrust. So it cannot be said that the National Assembly does not control the Minister in any way. I did not agree with any of the measures from the first to the last minister to the present. However, the way to react to such a disagreement is strictly regulated in our Constitution, and if we do not agree with what the government is doing, we may request a proper vote of no confidence and disagree with what the minister is doing. So putting into law in this form of all these measures is at least absolutely irrational. This should be from the competence of an organ that deals only with problems, epidemiology, the development of infectious diseases, of course, vaccine prophylaxis and so on. The problem was that there was not yet a sufficiently competent body drawn up to get the public's trust, and that was also the reason society reacted so negatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u159	Thank you, Professor Chorbanov. Here you are, Mr. Kostadinov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u160	Mr. Chorbanov, I understand that when a person disagrees with the Minister's actions, he wants a vote of no confidence. You said you didn't approve of any of the actions of the previous minister, the former cabinet, the current one, as far as I understand it, either. We're on the same page here. My question to you is, when are you going to ask for a vote of no confidence? [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u161	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any other lines, colleagues? I can't see. For the coat, Professor Chorbanov, please. I hope the doppelganger, not the procedure for asking for a vote of no confidence. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u162	Mr. Kostadinov, every time you fight with your wife, you want a divorce? [[Radio, applause from IHN.]] That's my answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u163	Thank you, Professor. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Nikolai Drenchev, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u164	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to bring you back to the subject, I want to remind you that we are not actually discussing medical procedures and medical problems. We are discussing a problem of separation of authorities and a problem of procedure for the way in which some very serious and responsible decisions will be made that concern a huge part of the Bulgarian people, the Bulgarian business and all aspects of our lives. This is a question which cannot be left in the hands of one person, he and the Minister of Health. This is a very serious thing, in no case should we play with the fate of the people, industry, health and anything else. We must take our work here seriously, take the reins of the administration of the Council of Ministers, respectively, of the respective minister. The procedure is sufficiently clear, it must pass through the National Assembly. The legislation adopted by the National Assembly has opportunities to be returned by the President, there is an opportunity to be revised by the Constitutional Court, while the Minister's orders are unaccounted for, irresponsible and as we have seen in the previous mandates, strongly urban, written on the knee. As soon as they are appealed and will fall into court, one order is revoked, a new order is made, and so a thousand times. We must by no means allow what has been so far to happen, because the war in Ukraine will end and come to our head again the new pandemic. I'm asking for serious treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u165	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Are there any lines, coworkers? There are no lines. Come in for a statement, Mr. Ganev. We'll extend your group's time as I think you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u166	Mr. Chairman, the aim of the Bill.. for those who have not understood is not to be able to make single decisions that violate rights, at the same time the obligations of citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. We've all witnessed in the past two years how we had one order from the Minister of Health, at lunch, the Prime Minister at that time canceled it, in the afternoon a third order came out. So every other day, every two of us had multiple and constant orders, which introduced a situation in which not only business, but we as citizens did not know how we were going to get dark and how we would get dark, with what mood the then prime minister would be and what the Staff would decide, which was making decisions and imposing obligations to violate any rights. The truth is that these decisions, again I say, must return to Parliament on the basis of the expert assessment of everyone who is relevant to the epidemiological situation, not experts in abdominal surgery, with all due respect to them, or other specialists who have nothing to do with epidemiology. Because when we have decisions made today for tomorrow, we have decisions that are canceled at lunch, and in the afternoon they put on quite different ones, and so every day, we come to a situation where business doesn't know what to do or what to do. We come to a situation where, to board Vitosha, you have no right to be prosecuted and fined. We get to the point that the mayors of GERB, a large part of them, started tearing out all possible seating places in the parks................................ a large part of them at GERB....................................... All this madness has taken over our entire country simply because the current Minister of Health had decided something else. This happened again with the ministers of the service whom Radev appointed. Let's put it this way, because it was he who appointed a government that decided to introduce a green certificate to limit it even more, and we have an unpredictability about what decisions affect our entire society. When there is no debate about such a thing, it is quite normal to have opposition in society. I cannot understand why the political persons who were ministers also exist in this sector were surprised that society does not accept their measures, does not comply with them, refuses to comply with them, and in no way can they recognize them, but simply because they are inadequate! That is precisely why I call again: we are giving a legislative initiative to bring back the situation in which such an important decision, such important things that are put before our society, to be put into discussion exactly in this House, so that everyone can hear them, see them and understand why they should be applied. To be applied if justified and protected. Otherwise, another foreign minister will take his fate and decide that he will sign contracts, the interior minister will decide that he will invade somewhere and do something, a health minister will introduce an emergency epidemiological situation or we will impose a Green Certificate by decision of the Council of Ministers. We're going mad! Again, let's bring the debate back right here in this room, and each of us with our voice, with our speech to be responsible, not to hide behind a flying list that limits human rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u167	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines, coworkers? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, please, voting regime. They voted 133 MPs: 12, against 81, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next item on the agenda, colleagues, namely: The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in this row. Importers are Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs. Reports have been submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is leading, the Committee on Energy and the Committee on Health. Colleagues, who will present the report drawn up by the leading Committee on Budget and Finance? Here you are, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 47-254-01-15, submitted by the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022. At a meeting held on 17 March 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev Deputy Minister, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova Director of the Department of Tax Policy and Mrs. Ekaterina Tarhova Chief Expert in the Directorate of Tax Policy and by the Ministry of Health: Mr. Petar Gribnev Deputy Minister and Mrs. Maria Belomoreva Director of the Directorate of Budget and Finance. The bill presented by Mr. Tsoncho Ganev provides for the introduction of a zero VAT rate for taxable supplies located on the territory of the country for foodstuffs and beverages from the nomenclature in the small consumer basket of the National Statistical Institute; water and the supply of natural gas, electricity and central heating for household and medicinal products and medical devices, as well as medical equipment, auxiliary and other appliances normally intended for the relief or treatment of disability, for the exclusive personal use of disabled persons, including the repair of such goods, and the delivery of children's seats for cars. The legislative proposals complement and deepen the legislative approach applied in 2020 by introducing a reduced rate of value added tax of 9 per cent for a certain set of goods and services. The continuing additional costs and accumulated losses will leave negative consequences for citizens and businesses for a long horizon even after the time of lifting the restrictions imposed by the state on the occasion of COVID-19. In addition, the period of high inflation observed for several months further eroticizes the purchasing power of Bulgarian citizens. Thus, the most economically vulnerable of them bear costs and are forced to limit their consumption due to rising prices. The proposed amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act constitute measures for the support and compensation of relevant target groups under the conditions of continuing difficulties in the economy related to the restrictions on COVID-19 and the period of increased inflation. This legislative proposal takes into account these European restrictions, but is guided by the objective of exhaustion of all possibilities for maximum protection of the economic and social interests of Bulgarian consumers. The proposed introduction of a zero rate aims to allow price reductions of the goods and services described accordingly. Such a reduction would be a compensatory mechanism to correct other factors for price increases leading to high inflation, which are currently reported and expected at least in the medium horizon. Accordingly and proportionately recovered loss in the available income of Bulgarian citizens, especially the lowest income of them, will result in stabilization of their consumption. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. In a written opinion, the representatives of the CST do not support the proposal for a zero rate of VAT according to a new art. 36c, t. 1 and 3, and refrain from supporting under Article 3. 36c, t. 2 of the Bill. KT "Supports" express their support for the direction of the proposed changes in VAT, but fear that this change will lead to additional financial costs for the budget, which in turn will benefit certain businesses, but will not address the serious problems in the Bulgarian society. CRIB, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Finance do not support the Bill and present reasoned opinions. The Ministry of Economy and Industry considers that an in-depth preliminary assessment of the impact of the Bill is necessary to analyse the effects and consequences for all interested parties. The proposed tax changes must be assessed in terms of compliance with European tax legislation and in terms of the impact on the revenue and expenditure part of the budget. Food industry representatives maintain a position to reduce the rate of value added tax from 20 to 9 per cent for all foods except alcoholic beverages. During the discussion took part the MPs Lyubomir Karimanski, Iskren Mitev, Vladimir Marinov, Venko Sabrutev, Georgi Ganev, Krasimir Valchev, Irena Dimova, prof. Rumen Gechev and Tsoncho Ganev. Mr. Tsoncho Ganev appealed and sought support from the ruling majority to refine the texts between the first and second votes in the direction of reducing VAT rates for the supplies mentioned in the Bill. Mrs. Ludmila Petkova from the Ministry of Finance said that food producers, fruit and vegetables, with a possible reduction in the VAT rate, will not take action to reduce the prices of products, but rather they will remain, with the effect for the budget for the three groups of goods being 2 billion. lv. losses calculated on a database from the National Statistical Institute, and it will directly transform into profit for them. People's representative Tsoncho Ganev pointed out that even keeping prices of goods would be a huge help to the most vulnerable groups in today's situation and would enable the real producer to raise consumption for more turnover. He stressed that the lower VAT rates will affect in the direction of a 20% decrease in drug prices, and the effect will be visible and tangible immediately. During the public discussion Mr. Lyubomir Karimanski stressed that it is important that the topic of reducing VAT rates is the subject of a thorough and expert debate where there are clear guarantees that this will reflect on the end consumer. Deputy Minister Ivaylo Yaydzhiev added that there are various financial instruments that can support the population and business. Mr. Vladimir Marinov explained that the reduction in VAT rates not only in our country, but also in other countries has not led and will not lead to a reduction in the prices of goods for the end-user, and he also believes that it should be specified how these 2 billion. lv. VAT loss will be able to be compensated for whether at the expense of the MCC, the MFA, infrastructure projects or something else. According to Mr. Venko Sabrutev, the bill is rather populist and is a matter not of political but of economic solution. People's representative Georgi Ganev pointed out that it is unclear how the intended effect will affect the income and cost inequality for the two target groups to which it is targeted and why specific businesses and not everyone else will be supported. According to Mr. Krasimir Valchev, this bill is a good compensation instrument, and Mrs. Irena Dimova pointed out that all sectors of agriculture are looking for support and essentially their parliamentary group will support it, with proposals for changes being tabled between the first and second votes. Representatives of the food industry Mrs. Yana Ivanova and Mr. Yordan Chorbadzhiyski expressed their opinion on a reduced tax rate of 9% for all foods, except alcoholic beverages, also believing that the grey sector will decrease. Prof. Rumen Gechev voiced fears that if the zero rate of the supplies mentioned in the Bill is accepted, Bulgaria would be the only country in the European Union with such rates, which would cause a problem. In this case, notification of the order provided for will be required. A notification to the European Union is taken into account. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held, which received the following results: 5 votes for..... 5 votes against................................................................................................................... and 8 votes.......................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 47-254-01-15, submitted by the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u169	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Who will present the Energy Commission Report? Here you are, Mr. Stefanov. You can present it in a summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 47-254-01-15, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022. At its regular meeting on 16 February 2022, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 47-254-01-15, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Tax Policy Directorate and by the Ministry of Energy Mr. Plamen Danailov, Deputy Minister. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by the MP Mrs. Iskra Mihaylova. The proposal complements and deepens the legislative approach applied in 2020 by introducing a reduced rate of value added tax of 9 per cent for certain goods and services. The reduced rate stimulates the affected economic sectors as a result of the epidemiological situation. A period of high inflation has been observed for several months, leading to additional erosion of the purchasing power of Bulgarian citizens. Thus, the most economically vulnerable of them bear costs and are forced to limit their consumption due to rising prices. This justifies the need for successive state measures to be taken. Ms. Ludmila Petkova presented the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, stressing that it does not support the bill, and introduced the MPs to the main reasons. The Draft Law proposes the introduction of a zero rate, i.e. the exemption of the goods and services in question from VAT. The VAT Directive explicitly states which goods and services are eligible for exemption. For some of them and for almost all, a reduced VAT rate is allowed, but not an exemption. The reduced rate may not be less than 5% for the goods and services referred to in Annex 3 to the VAT Directive, with all the listed goods and services falling within that Annex, but with regard to the supply of natural gas, electricity and central heating for household purposes, the Directive cannot be applied directly. A reduced rate may be introduced after consultation of the VAT Committee with the European Commission. There are two reduced rates in the country. One is zero for specific services and the other is 9%. In principle, if a decision is taken, a 9% rate may be applied to these goods and services, but no less can be applied. The other problem is budget revenue. The assessment of the proposal for a reduced VAT rate, not an exemption, in the consumer basket, if introduced, will result in a loss of 895 million. The loss in the supply of natural gas and electricity at a reduced rate of "990 million; medicines and medical goods " 122 million. That's about two billion. This raises the issue of compensation for these revenues and 2 billion could be compensated by 15% corporate tax. According to the draft law expressed the popular representative Momchil Ivanov. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held the Energy Committee with 7 votes........................ 9 votes against...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u171	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Following is a report from the Committee on Health. The report was sent to the MPs by e-mail today during the plenary session. Docent Tonev, you have the floor. A summary, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u172	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 47-254-01-15, submitted by Kostadin Todorov Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022. At its regular meeting held on 17 March 2022, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 47-254-01-15, submitted by Kostadin Todorov Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Petar Gribnev, Manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, Professor Petko Salchev, representatives of the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Economy and Industry, word organizations in the field of health and patient and non-governmental organizations. The draft and its reasons were presented by the National Representative Iskra Mihailova, who informed the members of the Committee on Health that the proposal for amendment and supplement of the Value Added Tax Act provides for the introduction of a zero rate for the supply of goods and services in accordance with Annex III to Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006. Dr. Petar Grybnev presented the opinion of the Ministry of Health, which explains that the issue of the rate of value added tax on medicinal products and medical devices has been discussed repeatedly, and the position of the institution is that all effective opportunities are supported to achieve more affordable prices of medicinal products and medical devices for citizens and more rational spending of public funds, but within the framework of the general financial, tax and insurance policy of the state. On the basis of the arguments presented, Dr. Gribnev informed the MPs that the Ministry of Health does not support the bill under consideration. The Ministry of Finance also does not support the proposed amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, since, pursuant to Article 98 and 99 of Council Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax, Member States may apply one or two reduced rates which cannot be lower than 5%. The written opinion of the Ministry of Economy and Industry states that the bill under consideration proposes a substantial tax reform that is not of temporary effect but has a long-term nature. In this respect, an in-depth ex ante impact assessment is necessary to analyse the effect and effects for all interested parties. The Ministry of Economy does not support these changes. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy notes that in the text of the proposed art. 36c, t. 3 are used the words "invalidity" and "invalidities" which does not correspond to the terminology in the regulatory framework in force, namely the type and degree of disability. The designated ministry does not support the proposals made. The National Health Insurance Fund also does not support the proposed amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act with arguments similar to those set out by the Ministry of Finance. The written opinion of the National Representative Organizations of and for disabled persons, members of the National Council for Disabled People of the Council of Ministers, expresses support for the proposed regulatory changes in terms of foodstuffs, water and the supply of natural gas, electricity and central heating for everyday life, as they relate to the entire population of the country, including people with disabilities. The Confederation of Labour "Support" expresses a positive opinion on the direction of the proposed changes to the Value Added Tax Act, while pointing out that there are a number of obstacles which, if not addressed, will cause a number of additional and uncompromised effects. A national patient organisation is against a reduction or zero VAT rate for products whose price is not strictly regulated, as this will not result in a reduction of the cost for the end-user, but will reduce the revenue to the state budget, which in the current delicate financial situation would not be desirable. The Association of Manufacturers and Traders with Medical Devices and Aids does not support the proposed regulatory changes. In the course of the discussion, some of the members of the Committee on Health indicated that when discussing the proposed bill, it should be taken into account that the market for medicinal products is a regulated market and the reduction of the tax rate will affect the reduction of prices for the end-user. It is noted that the tax policy of the country should be revised and reconsidered, as the value added tax applies to every commodity and to every Bulgarian citizen, specifying that the life and health of Bulgarian citizens should be placed above the European directives and the budgetary balance. Another part of the MPs said that reducing the tax rate may not be the best tool for helping citizens, but finding the right solutions for the benefit of society should be implemented through a comprehensive public and expert debate. The discussion must take into account the peculiarities of the state and of the state policy carried out in the various sectors. It has been noted that in the years not for the first time this topic has been discussed in the Committee on Health, as they are periodically introduced similar to the regulatory changes in question. It was stressed that in general it is not very appropriate to conduct a social policy approach through tax policy. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, the draft amendment and supplement to the Value Added Tax Act, No 47-254-01-15, submitted by Kostadin Todorov Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022, submitted by Kostadin Todorov Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u173	Thank you, Professor Tonev. I'm opening the discussion. An importer's opinion please, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u174	Mr President, it is understandable that the committees governed mainly by the opposition or there are more votes of the opposition and the ruling majority to have no adoption of the bill in question. It's understandable, political decisions. Each of us is responsible for political decisions. However, there is a decision and an opinion which is not normal and is total cynicism without an apology, and it is the opinion of the CST, which also rejects this bill as a negative opinion. However, there is something else I would like to mention here and now, because it is extremely important both for the ruling majority and also for the other two non-aging parties, and these are DPS and GERB, that yesterday the European Commission has a clear and precise opinion that proposes a temporary reduction of VAT rates in all countries by decision, of course, of each of them. I am interested in the fact that the ruling majority and the other two parties are strictly pro-European and comply with all the recommendations It is clear how you will vote, but I hope sincerely...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u175	Mr. Ganev, I ask you to present the bill, as your statement is essentially and...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u176	I have an introduction, and I have to imagine to get into the subject in particular. Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u177	Your statement is to the point, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u178	I'm really asking you not to interrupt me one more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u179	It's basically when we find the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u180	Please don't interrupt me. I'll get to that. In order to get to the specific numbers, I have things I have to say first. What we are talking about, or what is currently on Parliament's attention today, is something that concerns each and every one of us, both in this Chamber and outside, because a large part of official statistics, and also Eurostat, Bulgaria and the citizens of Bulgaria, are the poorest in the European Union, not to say across Europe, but let it be the official statistics of Eurostat, the poorest. With what we are currently proposing, a zero rate of the small consumer basket, a zero rate of electricity for domestic consumers, a zero rate of medicines and a zero rate of gas that serves to heat private homes. To the Finance Commission, and here, from this tribune, I say that if the majority comes to a decision that it can sit constructively to have talks in the name of not a political object which has put something into discussion, and not just to reject it, because it does not come from the government, but simply to sit down and see in these difficult times how far we can as a state, and we as a parliament, to ease the situation of the poorest part of our society, what we can do...................................... and to sit down and talk.............. If a zero rate seems too wasteful to you, which in itself is nonsense, when we talk about the poorest people and about buying medicines, because we are energy poor and we need a large part of our society to make a choice each month to pay for electricity, to buy medicines or food, right here at this point, let's sit down and talk if we have to between the two readings, if we have to at expert level with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, why not zero percent VAT, if you don't accept it, to be nine, say. Because the arguments of the Ministry of Finance were discussed one after the other at the Finance and Budget Committee and for us from the ARRANGEMENT are unacceptable. Because, on the one hand, we have people who are struggling to buy food, and on the other hand, we have the Ministry of Finance, which says: "We cannot afford two billion less revenue than VAT. " - No, we can! Because right now we have two-digit inflation, because nothing good is waiting for us, because what is happening today is looking good compared to what is going to happen tomorrow, precisely at this point when we are talking about the price of groceries. And this is where the other argument is being used. The food prices would not fall. Sorry, it matters if today the price of food and bread will be BGN 2.00 or tomorrow it will be 2.50. Yes, food prices may not fall immediately, but tomorrow will not rise by more and more. And what affects VAT is exactly the moment when we have to make a decision to reduce it, and if not, to remove it. With regard to VAT on medicines. I'm sorry, I don't know how many of you know in this room, because there are specialists who know it. The process of pricing medicines is strictly regulated and fixed. When we remove the VAT, the price of medicines will drop by 20% immediately after the promulgation. Now! It is not subject to speculation and interpretation here, from this House, whether anyone will reduce the price, whether there will remain a profit, as indicated here by the President of the Committee on Health. No, it won't stay as profit in any way for anyone. For both food and medicines, there will be no profit left for food manufacturers...................................................... if they do not cut prices, we will simply prevent lifting. With regard to the other opinion of the Ministry of Finance. This could not happen because there were judgments of the European Court of Justice. Here's the question. We do not have a clear and precisely regulated ban in both the European Union and the European Parliament in which to prohibit this thing. No, on the contrary, there's no such thing. However, the Ministry of Finance only to find an argument that says that this thing has judicial decisions. And who guarantees that there will be a court procedure against Bulgaria if we reduce VAT, even more so that yesterday there is a decision of the European Commission. Once again, I remind the ruling majority that there is a decision by the European Commission that clearly and precisely says that countries have the opportunity and call for VAT to be reduced because of the shock of food prices. Leaning on this, the Ministry of Finance gives a negative opinion. Another great argument in quotes is given the opportunity for speculation and for VAT fraud. Excuse me, how many months have we already had a reduced rate of VAT in relation to establishments? I did not see a series of cases of tax fraud and someone from the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance come out here and say: "Let's remove VAT reductions because there are many frauds. " - No, this is not a valid argument at all. Another argument by the Ministry of Finance: we cannot have two rates. No, we don't have zero rates right now, we have 9%. We're giving it a chance to cut to zero percent. It seems to you that zero percent is something that, again, I recall that according to the majority that voted on the Committee on Budget and Finance, these are huge losses for our fisk. No, there's no such thing. Absolutely not! And it's not true, and it's speculation this thing. On the contrary, there are clear and precise opinions of all branch organizations related to the production of food products. It says something very simple, which is tragic: there is a mass bankruptcy of businesses ahead, because they are faced with the choice or prices to rise constantly and daily, hence not having what we are seeing at the moment, no longer having a stable consumption that generates revenue, or simply closing down. And this comes with cheerful steps in quotes, and our government is looking at the sidelines, and in parliament the majority is supporting it because it has been more than half a year and 100 days since it manages this government, business has been paying bills for electricity, at times greater than it can pay. Because Bulgaria is one of the very few things that gives us independence, this is energy independence, we are producers of electricity from a nuclear power plant and from the power plants in which we extract coal from our own mines. This whole thing, however, is not being taken into account. When 100 days this Parliament is fighting and we are trying to bring compensation for the business, we meet explanations from the ruling majority that this is unnecessary and that the necessary measures will be made. We are currently giving another instrument with which the majority and the government will help both the real business, the producers in Bulgaria and the consumers because we are talking about the poorest part of our society. Because we're talking about people who go and buy not luxury food goods, but go and buy groceries of the very first need. We are talking about people who are sick about our society, they must go to buy medicines, and with a 20% reduction in VAT rates you will be able to buy the necessary medicines or at least one part of the required medicines. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This is the moment at which this Parliament and this majority, especially because I pay attention to this bill, if it is not similar, in 99% of the cases, is introduced several times by the BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u181	The weather, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u182	Thank you. As you interrupted me and took up my time, I finished, one minute only.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u183	Mr. Ganev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u184	I'm graduating.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u185	You didn't make the most of those ten minutes anyway...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u186	I call on the majority, and in particular BSP...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u187	...presenting the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u188	...really pay attention to this bill, because in their election campaign they placed this particular bill as one of their main priorities. This is not just a moment of words, but of real deeds to sit down and do what we have to do. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u189	Mr. Ganev, I draw your attention to the fact that these ten minutes for an importer's opinion are to present us with the Bill, not to make a statement on the substance that you have done in most of the time. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] To make a statement? Colleagues? Professor Gechev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u190	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, including colleagues from ARCHER. Firstly, let us say that it is true that the whole of Europe is looking for ways to ease households and businesses in the face of an acute crisis, and also because of COVID-19 and other events. This House has repeatedly discussed the issue of differentiated VAT. For at least the last six or seven years, I remember that four times our majority has tabled such projects here. You remember that we were exposing the differentiated taxes of the Member States of the European Union. Let me remind you that only two countries -- Denmark and Bulgaria in fact -- did not have a differentiated rate, except for the tourism that was made, and we pleaded to have such a differentiated rate. So in principle the discussion of differentiated rates of value added tax is a European discussion and Bulgaria, we have always said, should follow European practices. The dispute whether differentiated VAT leads to the rise in the profit of sellers and has no effect on prices is evidenced by European statistics. And since Germany, France, Italy, Poland, the Czech Republic and others have differentiated rates, obviously their economists have not been wrong for decades to maintain differentiated rates. So statistics show that it has an impact on prices. It is true what the fellow Member said, and this argument we here in this room have used, that especially with medicines with regulated prices, the effect is immediate and unapproachable, but here some questions arise. Why did we refrain from voting, although in principle the approach to seeking differentiation is correct? First of all, this is not about a differentiated rate, as is the case in European countries, but it is about a zero rate. At a zero rate, the calculations of a group of Treasury goods showed a direct deficit of 2 billion. BGN, which, with the expected higher revenues in the budget, including because of an unpleasant phenomenon, inflation is true BGN, but our colleagues from ARCHER presented themselves in their speeches to the Commission officially that according to their calculations we are talking about a total effect of about 8 billion. lv. less revenue for the budget. Now things are starting to look quite different here, because with 8 billion hopes that give now to reduce revenue by 8 billion, they will be compensated by inflation, that doesn't sound enough, let's put it this way, convincingly. So the first risk is, firstly, there are no such zero rates anywhere in Europe for all the goods that are listed. Secondly, this leads to a risk to the budget revenues and to the budgetary balance of the Republic of Bulgaria. This is a serious problem. Also from this point of view, there are a second group of problems that if the tax rate is reduced for a very wide range of goods, it will stimulate households and companies that use more of these goods, which means that the risks and burdens on the budget will be transferred to the wider part of the population, including the poorer Bulgarians, and those who have larger incomes will benefit from higher consumption due to lower VAT prices. That is, our second objection is that a social injustice is being realised here instead of pursuing social justice, so in European practice there is no way that we, colleagues, the first country with zero VAT. Secondly, the risk is very high for budget revenue and it is real for the budget balance as well. Thirdly, the VAT approach must be revised so that the social impact is directly on the groups of the population of our fellow citizens who really need such assistance, as it is also proven in economic history and practice that in such cases, where there are risks of lower VAT, it is better to have a wider range of people with high incomes, than to have targeted funding for poorer families, than to burden the budget for people and families who have sufficiently high incomes. In conclusion, the direction is correct, the question has been raised repeatedly. We in the Bulgarian Socialist Party support the European approach to differentiated rates, but this should be done with careful estimates, without risks to Bulgaria's budget and be targeted precisely for families who need such assistance. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u191	Thank you, Professor Gechev. For lines, coworkers? Kostadin Kostadinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u192	Mr. Gechev, the translation from Latin to Bulgarian means different. The different rate means every single thing that is different from 20% VAT, that is to say, your argument that, in a way, what we propose is different from European practice, because European practice provided for differentiated rates, and this was not differentiated, somehow hanging in the air. The second thing that you mentioned, which also surprised me very much, is that in this particular case you should think more about the targeted funding of the poor layers of the population, instead of taking a general approach, because, you see, along with the poor, the rich could benefit from the fact that, for example, bread would decrease by 20%. I cannot agree with you because this measure has a much wider economic effect, because it concerns not only consumers but also producers, and, as you know, it is the producers who eventually feed on the amount of their production and the more they produce, the better it is for the state as well. It is paradoxical, but in fact you as an economist much better than I do know that a tax reduction in this case can stimulate production and lead to even higher revenue in the budget, which will not happen within a year and a half, of course, will not happen perhaps in two years, because we do not have an economy at this time. It has been turned into a crude addition to our European partners, but in any case it is a good start. Moreover, we have set out within the arguments of the Bill many numbers and many figures, which I am sure you have read carefully and which clearly show how things stand in the European Union, because it has been said that there is no such European practice. On the contrary, there is, and the fact that the European Union does not provide for a rate of zero percent does not mean that we cannot change it. Recently our Prime Minister said with great pride: Bulgaria is the European Union and the European Union is Bulgaria. Come on, if that is the case, let's change this rate and let's talk in the way our European partners are talking, because just a few hours ago it became clear that the European Commission has spoken about the need to make a separate food policy and look for a tax reduction for them throughout the European Union. Not to do so, it will be a bit embarrassing, after a few weeks here you will speak the opposite of what you are now commenting on, because we have already been told by our European partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u193	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Tsoncho Ganev for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u194	Professor, with all due respect to you, to be honest, I expected not BSP, but here all the other parties in this Parliament to stand up and have arguments against this whole thing and to have this conversation with all the other parties, but not with BSP, anyway. On what you said, I will only comment on some things. In terms of the eight billion. Even during the Commission, it was said that there were not eight of them, that there were two of them. We assume that the Ministry of Finance is right even better than eight, there are two. We assume we've recorded eight billion in the Bill. There will be missed benefits. The Ministry of Finance said you were a witness. They said there were two. Okay, perfect. Regarding what you said about zero rates. I'm going to quote official data. Poland "natural gas" for domestic consumers, zero percent, Czech Republic "zero VAT rate for electricity and natural gas," Lithuania "zero VAT rate for domestic consumers." It's just one part of the statistics I've given myself to take out and search, there's a lot more. Moreover, with yesterday's decision of the European Commission, which really marks what each of us here knows, everyone outside, when they enter the store, knows that the prices are very high and there will be no delay, nor will there be a drop in prices for a number of reasons that I do not need to mention at the moment. And right at this point, as the fisk can afford this thing, we're proposing that this thing be reduced to zero percent. I'll say it again for those who didn't notice before. If this bothers you at zero percent, let's sit down then let's talk about being another, be nine, but lean on the practice in other countries, lean on the fact that we have two-digit inflation, which according to NSI is 10%, and it's really much more, and get to the point that we can as a state afford at this point to support the purchase of medicines and groceries.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u195	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Is there a third line, colleagues? I can't see. Professor Gechev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's see what the facts are one more time. First of all, we will not argue on the concepts, but even from English and Bulgarian language a differentiated rate does not mean zero, and therefore in the statistics of the European Union when you open, you will see that there are differentiated rates, there is a zero rate, there is a zero rate for individual goods. The colleague cites zero rates in individual countries. This is not the first time there are zero rates in some countries. And before there was example of medical services or medical equipment by exception, it has now been extended a little bit to two or three rates, but colleagues, you offer dozens of goods to be zero rates, not just natural gas or household electricity, so the difference is great. After that, you talk about tax and include the interests of business. The value added tax on the main groups of food products from the small basket and others do not concern the Bulgarian business and as you bind it to the tax, also discussions we have had here, there is no such direct dependence that the lower the tax is, the better for business and families. This, if so, honourable colleagues, Switzerland, Japan, Spain, Germany, the United States and Bangladesh will be zero tax, but they are not, and the average tax in Europe and on business profits, you know, decades were 35,40%, 25.8%. This is what we explained to our colleagues who are defending the flat tax that we have the lowest tax in the European Union, and in Europe alone, a whale country, there are 9%, but there is no queue of truckloads of euros and others for investments in Bulgaria because of the low tax, because many times we have explained that the low tax alone cannot be a sufficient condition for foreign investment, there are many other accounts being made there as well. And many times we have explained that the biggest foreign investment in the business is in countries with a high profit tax of companies. See also in the United States, see also in China and so on. In other words, there is a theory and practice, where is the tax threshold, which tax is most optimal for a country, but certainly zero tax is not optimal. Otherwise, other EU countries would have applied it. It is understandable, honourable Members, that we are political parties here and you, with such a proposal for zero VAT, are pursuing political goals, which is perfectly normal, but we cannot agree that you say: we have submitted written reasons to the Commission and to Parliament that this will cost the budget eight billion, and you want us to conduct a market here as on the Women's Market, but let us not eight, we are already ready to be two, right? Or VAT, but, well, we offer zero, but let's negotiate for 9%. This isn't serious. Let us sit together next time, when we submit for differentiated VAT and other taxes, to approach not only together but professionally and to comply with European practice. Otherwise, I say again, experience is in the right direction. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u197	Thank you, Professor Gechev. To speak, Hasan Ademov. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The discussion on whether to have a flat VAT rate or to have a differentiated rate is a discussion that has been extremely serious over the past few years. It is activated whenever the budget procedure is launched, most often, but in a situation where we are in crisis, in several crises, it is obvious that this topic again finds supporters. Why in the Health Committee did our parliamentary group support the proposed bill with several arrangements? Because if it's just medicinal products, it's regulated matter. There is a Regulation on the marginal prices of medicinal products, there is a price of a producer, which is determined as the lowest price in nine European countries, Member States of the European Union, then there is a price per wholesaler, there is a price per retailer and a reduction in the VAT rate at zero rate, instantly, colleagues are right that it will immediately affect the final price of a consumer, and this is extremely important. Because if the final price of a consumer is not achieved to satisfy the purchasing power of the Bulgarian citizens, this means that we have done nothing, as we have done nothing, for example, with the differentiation of the rate for the restaurant and hotel business. Has anyone noticed these prices being cut? There's no such thing. There's no such thing! However, revenue has been increased, and this is the most interesting moment. Why increase revenue? Because regardless of the differentiated VAT rate, we have also proposed another measure -- we have increased the minimum insurance income in this sector -- so that the representatives of this business can benefit from the employment conservation measure 60/40 -- then thanks to these two cumulative proposals, it has increased the income, but without reducing the prices for the end-user. With regard to other goods. Why do I say that we would only support the proposal for a zero VAT rate for medicinal products? Under European legislation, there may be a single zero rate and at most two differentiated rates, but not less than 5%. This is notoriously clear, as tax law says. So what's the big problem now? For all the last ten to fifteen years, our parliamentary group has maintained the uniform rate with a broad tax base, because the Bulgarian tax administration has tried to work that way. The single rate of taxation is the easiest to administer. The Bulgarian tax administration has no experience, no serious experience, a reliable attempt to administer a differentiated rate of VAT and hence the great concerns and the great doubt that revenues in the budget will be reduced. The Public Finance Act states: as long as there is no proposal for compensatory mechanisms to overcome the possible deficit, there is no way in the course of the budget year to adopt such proposals, but on the other hand quite calmly can be accepted by the other budgetary procedure or by the expected budget update now in June. So in terms of revenue and expenditure, things need to be balanced enough not to increase the already high deficit. With regard to zero rates for products from the small consumer basket. We in our parliamentary group had a conversation a year or two ago with the business related to the bakery industry and with quite serious other business related to the drug industry, to the food industry. Only from the drug industry have we received guarantees that a reduction in VAT will lead to a certain decrease in prices for the end-user. Everyone else said in the right words that there are very serious doubts that the price for end-user will be reduced. Therefore, we in our parliamentary group, if this bill is adopted, will only support the part about medicinal products, because it can certainly lead to a reduction in prices for the end-user. Otherwise, this is one of the tough discussions, one of the serious discussions, because it is related to the budgetary procedure, to revenue, expenditure. Therefore, we must be extremely careful and delicate if we are to have a normal fisk that does not create risky situations. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u199	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any lines, coworkers? I can't see. Any other speeches? Honest Mitev and then Iskra Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Ganev, both the Commission and here today, I have stated that this proposal is essentially good. Your desire to reduce the prices for Bulgarian citizens is a universal desire of everyone. On the other hand, your proposal is rejected by all three committees, which shows that there are inaccuracies in the proposal itself and your desire to reduce price pressure on citizens by reducing VAT does not work. That's the simple reason we all refuse. What you said that the European Commission has decided that Member States should have the right to lower prices is not true. In fact, Portugal has made such a request to the European Commission and it has answered what is already clear to everyone, which Mr. Ademov said, that in fact, each Member State can choose two goods to reduce VAT, but not more than 5%. What your proposal would do, Mr. Ganev, is only create more problems because it will deprive the budget of the revenues that can be targeted at the most vulnerable groups, and that is something that we are all working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u201	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines, coworkers? Stoyan Taslakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Mitev, the fact that our proposal has been rejected in three committees does not mean that our proposal is bad, but means that you do not accept a proposal coming from rebirth. But that's not a big problem, because in a few months the situation will change. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u203	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. Are there any other lines, colleagues? I can't see. For the back, Mr. Mitev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u204	Dear Mr. Taslakov, as I said, this proposal is not good or bad, but it is simply poorly presented without good argument. The measures you propose won't do the things you want. The reduction in VAT does not result in a reduction in final prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u205	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Iskra Mihaylova, for speaking. And colleagues, this will probably be the last speech for today, as there are six more minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Our bill, which we have tabled, is one of the few that has dozens of pages of argumentation, calculations, tables and examples. On the occasion of what was said a few seconds ago in this tribune, it is simply not true. What we have said in committees, we know it, but the documents we have imported are accessible and every Bulgarian citizen can get acquainted with them. We have tried to introduce the associations, as Mr. Ganev said earlier. When we submitted this proposal, it was already in January and the crises were available, Bulgaria was the poorest European country. After January, the dynamics of the situation show only one thing today, three months later, since there was enough time to age this bill, the debate that we are now trying to debate from rebirth to put on the table and hold with you all is not only necessary, it is critical. What is happening in Europe and the way in which European countries defend the ability of their citizens to have a normal existence in times of energy crises, in times of war conflicts, we in Bulgaria are once again lag behind and do not do so. Our government is not doing this, but we see at the moment that there is a request that our National Assembly not do so. On the occasion of some other words that were said that the National Assembly was the place for debate. If we expect that every single parliamentary group will submit the perfect, fined bill, which will not have a single minus and which will not be subject to debate, we know that this can only go on. When they have a majority and can vote on something, it is always perfect and there is no point in discussing it as the number of votes reaches. When the number of votes is short, negative opinions are received from committees without arguments. When we talk about without arguments, the Ministry of Finance did so, and the government did so in relation to a dialogue that keyly affects the existence of the poorest European nation, such as the Bulgarian nation, to our great regret and shame. And when for 12 years we have observed how neglectful the rulers have treated the existence of our people, it is now precisely the turn for this change. Isn't that right? There's a first and second reading. We won't want to shorten the deadline for two days or for a few hours, what those who have enough votes do. We asked you, and so we started every conversation in the committees in which I was present and in which I had the opportunity to argue this bill, let us begin, open the conversation and together we all do this thing! We have the opportunity between first and second readings, and now we have the advantage that the debate ends and the vote will be in time. You have time to think about it, to consult with your constituents, because I don't know, but maybe you should do it and see their position on this?! Because in the end, we're not self-syndical here. We are sent and each one of us represents enough Bulgarian citizens. So at this particular point, it is time to sit down and decide between first and second reading what to do. But in order to do so, you must support what we are now offering you, most warmly and with an open hand for dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Are there any lines, coworkers? Sincere Mitev and Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Mihaylova! Despite the many opinions and personal attacks we have heard, this cannot in any way erase the fact that the volume of the reasons you have given does not mean that they are quality. This proposal is not good.. it is weak, it is not well argued and will not lead to the change that you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u209	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Nastimir Ananiev for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Mihaylova, when you propose something that sounds very cool and that should appeal to people, but actually it can't happen, it's called populism. And when you offer zero percent VAT rate, it's called wild populism. Yes, I've seen your calculations 8 billion will cost the budget, but you're not telling me where we're gonna get them? From pensions, from health care, from education? Where are we gonna get that money? It's nice to give them away, but they still have to be taken from somewhere. It's bad when you're trying to make yourself thinkin' about people, about citizens. Yes, we are the poorest European state thanks to GERB, which have managed in the past 10 years [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] But that doesn't mean we have to make the rate at zero percent, because this way, just, alone, can break the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u211	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u212	If that's your goal, you want to break the budget, well, say you want to break it, but a budget for it to happen has to be balanced. It is one thing to say: I want to do good to the people who need it, but the question is to be able to argue and figure out how to do it. No country in Europe has a zero percentage rate of products that you offer, which once again shows that we are talking about quite wild populism. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So from this point of view, I personally and we continue to change, we will not support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u213	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Is there a third line, colleagues? I can't see. Here you go, Mrs. Mihaylova. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I'm asking for a few more minutes of patience!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u214	As I said, Bulgaria is the poorest European country. When we look at practices, we must apply them to us and to what is best for our population, and we are not even taking a step in this direction. Although, I remember now that in the Committee on Health, one of you paid attention to the fact that you had some conversations at the mall that you broadcast and had to watch the whole Bulgarian people. There you have mentioned, as I am sorry, I have not had the opportunity to look at you and listen to you all the time what you promise and are currently not fulfilling, in fact there in your coalition talks, as far as it has become clear from your representatives who have said it on committees, you have commented on this very issue. Enough months have passed, and you have nothing on the subject. There are parties here who have commented on these issues for tens of years, and there is nothing tabled on this issue. When we talk about argumentation, not per kilogram, but in quality, the argument that we received from the ministries is of the exact same quality. It is accessible and everyone can understand what the argument is.. such as any administration that wants to disprove something, how it should not happen without indicating any motive for how to do it. When we sit and open such a debate, we must think first and only of our population. When some other country is doing better than we are, these are deficits in our governance for years. When we make requests that we want to do something different, we should do it and not just talk about it. And when the European Commission now opens its doors and gives opportunities, it will be super curious and very cool, as you put it, I do not think it is appropriate from this platform, but I am simply quoting you on how you will argue a proposal which I suspect will come out of you?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-24.u215	Colleagues, before I close today's session, I will read you the announcement of parliamentary control, which will take place tomorrow, March 25th. Questions will be answered: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economy and Industry and Minister of Economy and Industry Cornelia Ninova will answer one question from the MP Mladen Shishkov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policies and Minister for Environment and Water Borislav Sandov will answer two questions from the National Representative Victoria Vasileva and one question from the National Representative Stefan Shilev. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadzhov will answer eight questions from the MPs Nikolina Angelkova, Georgi Georgiev, Iskren Arabadjiev, Georgi Mihailov, Alexander Simidchiev, Sevim Ali, Esheref Esheref and Fatme Ramadan, Gunaj Husmen and Kostadin Stoykov. 4. Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska will answer two questions from the MPs Kostadin Kostadinov and one question from Nikolai Drenchev. 5. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Georgi Gokov will answer three questions from the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Ahmed Ahmedov and Hasan Ademov; Slavena Tocheva and Rumen Hristov, and one question from the National Representative Mumun Mumumun. 6. The Minister of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov will answer a question from the MPs Zornitsa Stratieva and Julia Ivanova. 7. Minister of Health Asena Serbenova will answer four questions from the MPs Kiril Simeonov, Alexander Simidchiev, two questions, Elisaveta Belobradova and Dzhevdet Chakarov. 8. The Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov will answer two questions from the MPs Yavor Bojankov and Veska Nencheva; 1 question from the National Representative Ivelin Ivanov. 9. Tourism Minister Hristo Prodanov will answer a question from the MP Nikolina Angelkova. 10. The Minister of Internal Affairs Boyko Rashkov will answer 90 questions from the MPs Hairi Sadakov 11. Justice Minister Nadezhda Yordanova will answer a question from the MP Dessislava Atanasova. 12. The Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov will answer two questions from the MPs Petar Petrov and Boyko Klechkov and one question from the MP Mladen Shishkov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 97, para. 2 of the MNS due to a business trip outside the country in the parliamentary control meeting will not participate: - Minister of Defence Dragomir Zakov; - Minister of Energy Alexander Nikolov. Due to urgent commitments in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev will not participate. [[PHONE RINGING]]
