ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Online is Kalin Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u3	196 MPs registered in the hall and 1 online There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] I will read to you the draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 9 to 11 March 2022, proposed by the President. "1." First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Preschool and School Education Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, a follow-up from last week. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Youth Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 3. Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. A resignation has been given by the MP Ventsislav Petkov. 4. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importers - Elena Guncheva and a group of MPs. 5. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2020 6. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2020 ? Analysis of the postal market. 7. Second vote on the Bill amending the Investment Promotion Act. Importers "Peter Kulenski and a group of MPs" "point one" for Thursday, 10 March 2022. 8. First vote on the Act on Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importers supplier Iva Miteva, Toshko Yordanov, Rena Stefanova, Atanas Atanasov, Antoaneta Tsoneva, Ivaylo Mirchev and Alexander Simov point two for Thursday, 10 March 2022. 9. Projects of decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importers "Victoria Vassileva, Hamid Hamid " third for Thursday, 10 March 2022. 10. Draft decision on the introduction of a full-scale compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers in the electricity market of faiths, municipalities, social structures, education, health care. Importers suppliers Desislava Atanasova and a group of Members of the National Assembly supposed point four for Thursday, 10 March 2022. 11. Draft Law on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on donation by and between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of a vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH and a Bilateral Agreement on donation between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Importer "The Council of Ministers" point 5 for Thursday, 10 March 2022. 12. Draft Decision repealing decision of the National Assembly of 7 January 2022 on access to the buildings of the National Assembly in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation. Importers supposed Peter Petrov and a group of MPs, point 6 for Thursday, March 10, 2022. 13. Hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the content of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan following the European Commission's remarks, as well as the preparation phase of the Partnership Agreement for the programming period 2021 14. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. This is the programme proposed by the President. There are also three proposals for inclusion on the agenda on the basis of art. 47, para. 3 which we will consider after we vote on the Programme proposed by me. Please, voting mode. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u4	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u5	They voted 205 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online " 206" total: 167 in the Chamber and 1 online " 168," against 21, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Proposals under the order of art. 47...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u6	I want a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u7	Mr. Tsonev, do you want to go over the proposals first and I'll give you the floor? The proposals shall be in the order of art. 47, para. 3. The first proposal is from the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT. The proposal is for inclusion in the National Assembly Programme Draft decision to repeal the previous National Assembly decision on access to the National Assembly buildings in the event of an emergency epidemic situation, and the proposal is included in the Programme as a first item on the agenda for Wednesday, today. On the already voted programme it is t. 12. If you want, let's move it like a t. 1 in the program, right, Mr. Petrov? No. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I have made the proposal together with my associates, before we receive the Program for the National Assembly's work and see that so. 1 is the first vote on the Bill that has been going on since last time, so I want to change our proposal, namely: from this point. 6 for Thursday I suggest to become a t. 4 for today and really other points after it to change respectively downwards. That's it. This is how I change my proposal, I say again, in view of our programme presented today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u9	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Okay, so you're changing the proposal on the agenda. 1 to be t. 4 in the program and will appear t. Four for Wednesday. Okay. We are voting on the proposal of Petar Petrov and the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u10	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u11	They voted 204 MPs in the House and 1 online. 205 total: 81 against 81 in the House and 1 online. 82 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS for inclusion as a point in the Programme of the Project of a decision to introduce a compensatory mechanism in full for non-bit final customers in the electricity market of faiths, municipalities, social structures, education, health care. It is included in the program, not referred to as another point, so we leave it. And we move on to the final proposal in the order of art. 47, para. 3, which is from Elisaveta Belobradova, to include the following item in the Program "Listening to the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund Mr. Petko Salchev on the reforms for the release, payment, repair and control for the provision of assistance and facilities for the needs of people with disabilities in the Law for people with disabilities. I will put this proposal to the vote. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u12	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u13	Vote 206 MPs in the House and 1 online. 207 total: for 201 in the House and 1 online.. 202 total, not against, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. The point shall be added to the Programme as the last point. 14 before parliamentary control, the parliamentary control shall be renumbered as follows. 15 of the program. With this we have exhausted the proposals according to the order of art. 47, para. 3. Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. Yesterday you kindly committed to sending the signals to the Prime Minister, and my question is: did you send them, or are they standing in the room of the Secretariat of the Land, not for anything else, but will they get dirty and then how will the Prime Minister wear them? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u15	We sent them with a letter dated today.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u16	With today?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u17	Yeah. We'll get your letter right away.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u18	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u19	Thank you. Mr. Hamid is also for procedure and Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is also on the agenda, Mr. Chairman. On January 19th, we introduced two bills, the Law amending the Public Procurement Act and the Law amending the Public Finance Act. All through the campaign, you've all been practicing how you don't want in house procedures, how you don't want to spend money on the jeep. To this day, these bills have not been included on the agenda of the relevant committees. Please exercise your full authority and talk a little with the chairmen of these committees to include the bills in question. So here's an example of this. 8 on the agenda The draft amendment and supplement to the Ministry of Interior Act was submitted on 22 February, that is, a month after our bills, but has already passed the Commission and is on the agenda of the National Assembly. I ask you not to divide the bills of those of the opposition and those of the ruling majority, not to apply double standards. I'm sure you'll talk to the committee chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u21	Yes, of course, Mr. Hamid. Who were the bills, excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u22	Public procurement and public finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u23	Thank you. Got it. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov. And Snow Trajanska later, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Three weeks ago, perhaps, if you remember, this tribune mentioned that there would come a time when we would say the word "forsmajor." I think yesterday the prime minister, and each of the speakers, is already saying the word "fors major" the country is in a force majeure situation. I'm not gonna argue, I mean, it's obvious, and we have a war. On the agenda Parliament today deals with the Law on pre-school education, youth, termination of the powers of the MP, Report of the Communications Regulation Commission, Annual Report of the Commission, yes, Bill on Investment Promotion... Colleagues, which of these projects is on the agenda of society, which of what we are going to do today solves some of the country's problems? I mean, Mr. Chairman, and you've known this thing since Friday, our parliamentary group has tabled two bills. One is to amend and supplement the Law on Asylum and Refugees, which creates the government's currently missing regulation on the admission of refugees. The second bill is the Law on Volunteering, which aims to regulate the status of volunteers and the organisation of their activities. In half an hour we will submit a bill for amendment and supplement of the Personal Documents Act, which creates a map of the Bulgarian. This is a map designed for Bulgarians from the diaspora who can quickly enter Bulgaria and enjoy the rights of Bulgarian citizens. These are three bills, which we believe fully correspond to the situation and are based on what the Bulgarian society needs right now. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to ask you to talk to Mr. Mateev... the Chair of the Legal Committee, and to look at these bills as a priority, such as... [[Noise and lines.]] Really, colleagues, look, a matter of simple humanity is... [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. We also hope for your understanding. Let's start looking at the force majeure bills so that we don't go into complicated situations and say, "Did we tell you?"
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u25	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. We get it. And Mrs. Trajanska. Just a second. Are you here for a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u27	Let's hear the procedure first and let me give you the floor for a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is to turn on BNT 1 cameras and BNR microphones, as today we will look at very important points. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u29	Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u30	If you expect me to propose BNT, I will not propose BNT 2 but I will suggest that we do not include the cameras in relation to my previous speech, colleagues. If you want to expose yourself to the entire Bulgarian people what we are dealing with today, I promise you that we will call on each speech to deal with these bills that we have tabled. So, don't expose the National Assembly and intentionally drop its rating. Don't! We're dealing with bullshit today.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u31	We understand the opposite opinion. We vote on Nikola Dimitrov's proposal to include the microphones and cameras of BNT 1 and BNR. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u32	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u33	They voted 187 MPs in the Chamber and one online. 188 total: 33, against 111 in the Chamber and 1 online. 112, abstentioned 43. The offer is not accepted. Now we move on to the declarations. First of all is the declaration by Snow Trajanska, and then by... [[(Reply from the National Representative Stoyan Taslakov: I raised my hand before her.]] I didn't see you, Mr. Taslakov. In this order, I give them away. Here you are, Mrs. Trajanska, on behalf of the There is such a people.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today we celebrate 79 years of saving the Bulgarian Jews during World War II. We lower our head as a tribute to the courage of Dimitar Peshev, who as Vice-President of the National Assembly is the initiator of a petition by MPs announcing the suspension of the deportation process. With the conclusion of the Agreement for the deportation of the Bulgarian Jews, their rights are not only threatened, but their lives as well. Then you can see Dimitar Peshev's patriotism. On March 7, 1943, the arrests of the Kyustendil Jews began, preparing their deportation. Delegation headed by local public figures Asen Sujmezov, Vladimir Kurtev, Petar Mihalev and Ivan Momchilov are going to Sofia to inform the MP from the region Dimitar Peshev about the upcoming deportation of the Jews. His blinking reaction thwarted the destruction of nearly 50 thousand Bulgarian Jews. On March 9th, now celebrated as the Day of Deliverance, along with a group of supporters put an ultimatum before then Foreign Minister Petar Gabrovski to release the detainees. Dimitar Peshev doesn't stop there. On 17 March he sent a protest letter to Bogdan Filov, signed by 42 MPs: Our only request is when adopting any measures, to take into account only the actual needs of the state and the people at the moment, not missing, however, the interests of the prestige and moral positions of our people are written in their letter. The strong public reaction saves the Bulgarian Jews from certain doom. Instead of laurels for his strong position, Dimitar Peshev was sentenced to 15 years in prison. 13 months after the verdict was released. Today, 79 years later, we are reminiscent of the historical facts and we are writing the latest history. On this day Kyustendil offers wreaths in front of the monument of Dimitar Peshev in his home town. On today's March 9th, in Kyustendil a new memorial will be opened to honor the steadfastness of saving lives, that of Ivan Momchilov another Bulgarian political and public figure with Kyustendil roots, which we will remember. We bow to the courage and adoration of the saviors of the Bulgarian Jews and to the memory of the 11 343 victims of the Holocaust, deported from Belomore Thrace, Vardar Macedonia and Pirot in the camps of death. Only 12 of them survive. Today, after two years of pandemic and against the backdrop of the continuing war in Ukraine, we are more than ever thinking about human life. He doesn't have a price. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" - ISN - BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Trajanska. Here you are, Mr. Taslakov, for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of a party rebirth.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On March 9, 1985, there was an attack at Bunovo Station by Turkish terrorists, blowing up the car with mothers with children travelling by train from Burgas to Sofia. 12-year-old Georgi Tsvetanov, 13-year-old Stefan Atanasov, 40-year-old Emil Georgiev, 46-year-old Nikolay Genkov, 64-year-old Rayna Bozukova died in the bombing. Among the victims are deaf children returning home. Nine people were badly injured, including two children. Other terrorist acts were subsequently committed and more innocent Bulgarians were killed. While some of the terrorists are sentenced to death, others continue their activities and even participate in the Bulgarian political life. We must not forget that the Bulgarians are always ready to defend our country and freedom, we must remember that the internal enemies are more dangerous than the external ones. Therefore, we must not let politicians forget that the protection of our country is of paramount importance, because the victims are always the most defenseless. We will not forget Bunovo, and we will not forget that the most important Bulgarian national interests are. Resurrection calls on the Members of the National Assembly to honor with a minute of silence and to become the memory of the innocent victims of Turkish terrorism in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[The MPs from the parliamentary group of the party are getting up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u37	Mr. Taslakov, the minutes of silence procedure includes a request to this effect by 6 p.m. on the day before. Rosen Turtle? Affidavit? Here you go, Mr. Turtle.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are particularly worried about the news in recent days regarding what is happening in Ukraine. We were even more worried to hear the news that Bulgarian MP has been detained, extradited and has a black stamp in his passport for the next 10 years. We do not know in the history of the National Assembly that there was another such case in which a representative of the National Assembly would receive a black seal, that is, a ban on residence in a free and democratic state. We would like to clarify the following: What information do the Bulgarian services have about our colleague and based on what doubts the Ukraine services have reached this final decision? Are there risks to national security if a Bulgarian MP with immunity and access to classified information is subject to such hostile actions from another country? What do DANS, DAR, Military Intelligence and the Ministry of Interior do and whether the information they have is more comprehensive than the information they have in public? We will ask these questions and we would call on the heads of these services to inform the National Assembly in the most urgent order. Bulgaria is not at war, but those led in close proximity to our borders military actions make us believe that Bulgarian citizens deserve all the answers to the risks to national security. And if there are people in the National Assembly who promote the interests of a foreign country, we believe that this is a real threat to Bulgaria. Thanks. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u39	We move to several messages, and then to item one of the agenda: The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its own orders he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of a plane with crew from the Air Force of Greece. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, permissions to fly over the country's airspace should be granted to the countries concerned after a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas. The Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notification was received on 7 March 2022 with entry No 47-203-09-20 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act on 7 March 2022 received a Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the National Security Service for 2021. The Report was submitted to the Budget and Finance Commission and the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. The National Statistical Institute received information on gross domestic product in the fourth quarter of 2021 and in 2021. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. supposed data. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to point one of the program: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL MOVEMENT. During the previous plenary session of 2 March 2022, statements on the Draft were made by Antonia Dimitrova; Stoil Stoilov from For speech from the last time were recorded: Denitsa Sacheva, Nastimir Ananiev, Hristo Simeonov, Kostadin Kostadinov, Georgi Mihailov, Irena Anastasova, Blagovest Belev and Luben Dilov. In this order, Mrs. Sacheva? [[Heckling]] Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u40	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues! I take this opportunity to bring you back to the subject that seems to seem irrelevant, but it is actually an illustration of the saying that the path to hell is paved with good intentions. The proposed draft law amending existing Law in para. 1 and para. 2 of art. 11, where political and party activities are described, due to the lack of a description of what political activity is, we are actually opening the door to the possibility of an extremely subjective interpretation. Hence the possibility of harassment precisely for political reasons over pedagogical specialists and teachers. I'll give you just one simple example. A history teacher teaches September 9th and calls it a coup. The parents of a child affected for political reasons have every reason to say that he is engaged in political activity and propaganda because they believe it is a popular uprising. That's how they taught him. Many similar examples can be given. I don't want to go in there because I'm risking it with the talking people then arguing about the examples, not the basics. This law without a definition of the concept of political activity opens up the possibility of self-mutilation. Rather, at the beginning of the day, I would like to cheer you up with a comic episode of the Shumen villages, where, wishing to maintain political correctness, a young literature teacher in the village of Kon, I think it was by telling you in my own words the content of the Shipka Openers before the Turks, he himself of Turkish origin, says: "Ours on top with stones and trees, and below ours are rushing to the top. "I mean, he represents the war of 1878 as a civil war. I give this cheerful example on purpose to illustrate the fact that it is extremely delicate without a wording of what political activity means. For party activity, I'm guessing there's hardly anyone in this room who's opposed to preserving the definition that exists. I mean, pep talk, pre-election... Although there is a flaw there, because it is written that it is about an agitation in favour of registered under the Law on Political Parties, Coalitions, Persons or Civic Initiative Committees. I mean, if he's campaigning for unregistered, that's fine. The law needs a very serious revision of the proposed changes. Please really focus on them. Maybe it's better to just be downloaded and re-entryed. Because with the tradition of this Parliament to give extremely short deadlines between first and second readings, I think we will sleep through this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u41	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. A line to Mr. Dilov has Professor Georgi Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dilov, you know there is a theory that hell is here on Earth. On the occasion that: The path to hell is paved with good intentions. For me, personally, it was an extremely unfortunate example that you set that you wanted to cheer us up this morning. He's as bad as bad things happened in education during the reign of your party, but perhaps even worse. So unbeautiful, I don't feel like commenting. I hope we do not happen twice ours and yours above and below to quote a battle that is the basis of the history of Bulgaria. I'll give you another quote. A story by Chudomir because you are a connoisseur of literature and are from a literary family. His name is Nomenclatura. There they ask the main character in the story, and they make him make an inventory of the store according to the new nomenclature, but because he doesn't know what the nomenclature is, as you obviously are not well aware of the content of the Law or subjectively you have an attitude towards it, he starts to ask all his villagers: Therefore, according to the new nomenclature. So this remark of yours at the beginning of the discussion on this important law, which we actually talk about several times in the Chamber that during working hours not for 9 September, not for 7 November, not for 14 July, any date can be perverted in the world history in someone's mouth. That's not what we're talking about! We are talking about direct interference in political activity, about campaigning in terms of political activity in Bulgaria, at the moment. That's what the law's about. This has been criminalized many times in recent years. That's what he's trying to make this law. So please, with the examples, let us be more careful, and with the cheering up of the House. We're doing law-making here, not throwing cheap wits at each other, which is not pleasant for me or anyone. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u43	Thank you, Professor. Academic Denkov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, in preparing the text of the Law, we have done nothing extraordinary. The aim is clear and I thank Professor Mihailov, who specified. Law on higher education, art. 56, para. 1: The members of the academic staff shall not engage in political or religious activities in the higher school. Law on the civil servant............................................................................................... 4, para. 2: The State official in the performance of his service must be politically neutral. These concepts are used, introduced into the laws without having the respective definitions, because it is assumed that everyone can understand what is the use of political activity. If there is any repression, they can be established by court order and any other procedures that have been adopted in our country. So my request is not to try to block the Law again because there are such attempts, but to vote it at first reading. If necessary, we will specify texts. There is a need for such regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u45	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u46	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Dilov, you wanted an example. Here, I will give you an example, and unlike yours, it is not as joyful and comical as you have expressed with the example you have set by Shumen. I'll talk to names and facts. I have a printout of an email sent by the Director of the Regional Inspectorate in Blagoevgrad before the first elections, on April 4, to all principals of schools in which an absolutely direct political campaign is held. Here, look how pretty he is. [[Shows a printout of the email and a photo.]] In which he has not even signed his post but has signed as Ivaylo Zlatanov, a candidate for the MP in 1 Mir " Blagoevgrad." Do you think that's normal? As you have also heard what Minister Denkov said, even now in the Law this thing is forbidden. He's a civil servant. So this thing really should already have some practical application. That's exactly what I think this law settles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Krasimir Valchev for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u48	Thank you. Dear Mr. Dilov, I think that not so much the political activity is problematic by all you have said, because he really is, as Minister Denkov said, there is an analogue in the Law on Higher Education, in the Law on State Staff. Rather, the term "ideological beliefs" is problematic because it creates prerequisites to enter into a coliseum with the educational function. That is exactly what your example illustrates. I said last time: we live in a world of beliefs. Some of the doctrines and beliefs have been rejected. We have discussions on others. Some of us have accepted them as dominating. Our society trusts them as a set of values. There really is such a risk, because this is an example. The example you set is one of the cases we argue on. This is how we argued when discussing the curricula, the X-class textbooks, although we have adopted in 2000 a law declaring the communist regime in Bulgaria criminal. I'll read it to you. 1: The Bulgarian Communist Party, then named as the Bulgarian Workers' Party, came to power on 9 September with the help of foreign power, declared war on Bulgaria, and the violations of the Tarnovo Constitution, so it should be clear the answer. You are absolutely right that some teachers, given the text in the Law and given that it is a political discussion issue, will refrain from creating attitude and attitudes of intolerance to such historical facts, respectively to totalitarian regimes, just because there is this risk in the Law. Here I really hope that Minister Denkov is honest and will be introduced if the Bill is proposed at first reading, additional texts between first and second reading will be introduced to say which ideological doctrines are admissible, which we have rejected. Respectfully, not to create self-limitations in teachers to perform the educational function in schools. Only one note to Mrs. Vasileva, if this is a political activity, then the Minister has reason in the Law on the Civil Service and at the moment, as the Head of Regional Education Management is a civil servant, but as far as I know, there is no punishment on the basis of this provision in the Law on the Civil Service, although checks have been carried out. In other words, he does not lack the legal support to be held responsible. It must be another objective of the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u49	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, suggestions are being made for which there are no grounds. Under the Civil Service Act, yes, the employee concerned must be politically neutral. The problem is that the Minister of Education and Science does not have the power to sanction a civil servant who has abused during an election campaign. If I had such powers, this case would be over. That is precisely the purpose of this law. The Minister, when there is a problem, thus being able to sanction the employee. Because otherwise the minister will react and when it goes to court, the relevant employee will be sent back because it will turn out to be removed without authority from the relevant sanctioning authority. So it makes sense of this law, and it's good to understand the meaning. Regarding the content of political activity and ideological considerations, or political commitment, the situation is very clear. Our educational system works with educational programs, works with established textbooks, which means that everything that is accepted in the programs, everything that is included in the textbooks, provides enough material for teachers to present the point of view of the cognitive and educational, which is established in the respective order in the country. Everything else is now subject to verification whether it is politically neutral and does not in any way restrict teachers to educate in what we have accepted as state policy. So please, you know the system well, everything that is laid down in the programs and in the textbooks should be taught and should be taught accordingly, which is accepted there.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u51	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dilov, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have argued, honourable Members, only that the lack of formulation for political activity opens up what we are currently witnessing. More than that, in para. 1 of art. The 11th sentence is not allowed to impose ideological or religious doctrines is exactly the same case. However, if we teach creationism, what do we do?! Do we teach it? Don't we teach it? Mrs. Vasileva, I don't know this case very well, but it is assumed that if the person is a candidate for a representative of the Parliament, he should be on leave, right? And civil servants aren't forbidden to campaign for themselves when they're candidates for MPs, at least I don't know how to ban them. [[Replication by National Representative Victoria Vasileva.]] If he wasn't on leave, that's another case. As you can see, there's... The devil is always in the details. If he's running for MP, he was obviously on leave, right? He can't be a candidate and he can't be on vacation. Doctor, I'm saying again, imagine you're a teacher. How easy it is for every single sentence of yours to claim to be a political activity, even for the statement you made just now. Colleagues, I'm not against this law, understand. It's just that in other laws it says that they follow restrictions on political activity in non-defining the term political activity creates a big problem circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u53	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Irena Anastasova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u54	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I am making this statement even after listening to the speeches in the previous sitting when the discussion of this bill began. I decided to write it down to limit my time, not to distract myself, but I am doing so in response to some comments and positions expressed both in the discussion of this draft law at a meeting of the Education Committee and in the previous speeches of the discussions in the Chamber. I firmly believe that these amendments to the Law are necessary and must happen, should have happened even a long time ago. At the same time, as a person who has worked for more than 27 years in the system, I honestly tell you, absolutely heartfeltly, that until four or five years ago, the lack of such texts in the Law seemed to be no problem. Teachers and most directors even intuitively felt what they could, what was acceptable to happen at school and what was not. However, things have changed sharply in recent years and this cannot be denied, this is visible, regardless of what colleagues from GERB are saying now from this tribune, both in the media and in social networks. In this sense, I cannot agree with the views made so far that the changes restrict the electoral rights of those working in the system. How exactly do they break?! The text has had such opinions, states: The persons holding the position of a pedagogical specialist, as well as the persons holding the positions of a director and deputy director, in the performance of their functions are obliged to be politically and party neutral and cannot impose ideological and political beliefs. What's not clear here?! For each position there are designated functions in the respective job description. That's what I hope everyone knows. And these functions are performed during working hours at work. For example, it is a school principal's job to monitor what is happening in the school's electronic journal. But it is not the Director's job in this same electronic journal, which is visited by all students and parents, to launch its own election advertising. And there have been cases like this. It is the Director's job to monitor the learning process, for example, in physical education and sports. But it is not his job to organize in the school yard a football match with the participation of a candidate for a MP during the academic year during an election campaign. It is the job of the Head of Regional Education Management to control the organization of the activities in all educational institutions in the field. But not to gather all directors for a meeting during working hours with candidates for MPs in an election campaign, such as dozens of cases in recent years. And it is the job of the Head of the Regional Government when the Deputy Minister of Education asks him to present lists of teachers who will be members of the section polling committees that was unheard of until a year ago, but it also happened to answer that it was not in his duties. That's what the Head of Regional Affairs of this Deputy Minister should say. Such cases before the elections on April 4th had enough. There is no prohibition in texts to do all this, but not in working hours, not in the position of office and not in the school, kindergarten or regional government. Regarding the concerns expressed about whether the municipal councillor or the public representative could attend the school or kindergarten, and wouldn't that be interpreted as political interference, I would say, not only can, but also must visit them to be aware of their problems. However, during an election campaign, candidates cannot hold meetings on these institutions and issue election leaflets. The texts in the Draft Law do not prohibit the participation of teachers, directors and heads of regional governments from being candidates. But in order to conduct their campaign, they have to go on leave and somewhere else to do their campaigning, not at school. There were concerns about how humanitarian disciplines will be taught, how different political and ideological doctrines will be explained to the students. Well, colleagues, especially you, who are teachers, according to the curriculum. For example, the history teacher will call the events of September 9th not a revolution, not a coup, not anything, but will call them what is written in the history curriculum with the concepts that are referred to for children's absorption. Every teacher knows that. That's why I'm saying it's the same as it has been. Changes in this law do not change that. At the same time, I believe that some of the opinions in the Draft Law make sense and reflect existing problems in the system. One such problem is the competitions for directors in the system. The current methodology allows ignoring uncomfortable candidates, especially for the official party appointment of designated candidates. Many of the districts know in advance which directors will be appointed in the last four or five years, all the more so that the conduct itself does not constitute a dispute and the decision is not subject to judicial review, i.e. leads to an unacceptable challenge of the competition. The procedure, the results, the props can be contested, but not the ranking for the appointment of the director. So you get a choice in quotes that are pre-drawn and the other candidates are just a background. There are many cases of which I am informed in my capacity as MP in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, such as: the latest in test results, and the difference between candidates best performed and worst performed is in the order of 30 points of 50 maximum, so the last in ranking points of the test becomes the first in the interview and is appointed. Guess why?! Or when we want to leave the current director who's been retired for a long time, it just happens that the contest is not won by anyone. It's high time the directors were professionals, competent and above-party, not just party loyal. And I sincerely believe that much of the damage to the education system is due to this.. political appointments, which are in a threatening amount in recent years. To overcome this, there must be legislative changes between first and second reading of this bill or following amendments to the Preschool and School Education Act. I believe that between first and second readings will be discussed and made some clarification, but I have no doubt that the changes that are being proposed now are absolutely necessary. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Come in, Hristo Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I listened with attention to the discussion because the topic is extremely important, especially after what Mrs. Anastasova said, I would like to declare my position. It is that there is no doubt that such regulation, which ensures that the Bulgarian school will remain politically neutral, is necessary and we will support it. At the same time, when it comes to such wide-ranging concepts, it is good to be careful, and I think we should hear the criticisms that have been formulated on specific terms. My call is between the two readings to make efforts to make these texts, their possible broader interpretations not to come into any conflict with the idea of the values that are taught and on which the Republic is founded, because let us not forget that in the very preamble of the Constitution the value foundations of our Republic are bet so that these values in some way do not get into conflict with these wordings. Perhaps I am thinking now what Mrs. Anastasova said, the clear commitment that these restrictions are applied within what we have as objectives of the educational process, as a programme and as competences to be taught, because part of the programme and competence suggest dealing with certain philosophical, political doctrines, which, by the way, are also valuablely validated in the European Union and in our Constitution. That is to say, carefully clarify the content of these necessary texts, which is the work of the legislative process between first and second reading, and then let us all rest assured that we are doing the necessary regulation without it in any way limiting the so necessary pluralism and freedom of workers in the education system. With this note we will support the Bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Another line to Irena Anastasova? Plamen Nikolov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The question we're looking at is a double. Firstly, it is about what historical discourses can be taken in this case. This, of course, is part of the past. History is always commented in the form of facts. This is about the past. When we talk about political activity, it concerns the present and the future, so the issue is very easy to grasp from this point of view. From another point of view, since we are talking about examples, I would allow myself to set an example of our favorite Shumen 30. A multi-mandated election area about what is a political campaign. For example, in the election campaign in its latest version, we saw the following thing there: a circular letter to all his other colleagues is being distributed by a working email from an acting school director, again on the correspondence, for a meeting with a candidate from the relevant political power, which is currently represented by the director for one reason or another. It is because this current political candidate no longer performs any state function, that is, he has no legitimacy to do so as a visit there, except as a political candidate. That's what this law wants to avoid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u59	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. The third line is from Tsveta Galunova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to remind you that our criticism of the Bill was related to the motives inside and not to the texts themselves in the Law. It was related to the creation of prerequisites for teachers when they run for elected political posts, to be responsible afterwards. It is in this sense that we would like to review the motives, to rewrite them, to remove those parts of them that create such suggestion. And in case these are not the suggestions that we wanted to achieve, and there's been some misunderstanding, let's fix them, because much more important than what the legislator wanted to say is what he actually said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. A hole from Irena Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u62	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Ivanov, I think I clearly said in my speech that between first and second readings we will do our best to clarify some concepts for which concerns have been expressed. So we're definitely gonna do this. Mrs. Galunova, here in this Chamber, we vote and adopt not motives but texts of laws. So what you think wasn't well said or shouldn't have been said in the motives is certainly so, only we are voting on the texts rather than the motives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. I'm moving on to the next recorded statement. Denitsa Sacheva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The principle of depolitization of the Bulgarian education does not date from today. It is valid always after the democratisation of Bulgaria, including now. I can give you a number of examples in which we, together with Minister Krasimir Valchev, have dealt with many of the cases, including some of the cases that Mrs. Irena Anastasova quoted; including the use of the electronic journal by a director who did this improperly; the visit of the President's wife to Bulgarian schools and so on. There are many examples that I could also give. Some of the examples that you are giving, including colleagues from "There is such a people" and currently there is a ban and a legal basis. Official emails cannot be used, of course, the Bulgarian school for election campaigning can not be used. Surely this bill is a sought-after justification at the moment, and if there is a desire to act and carry out the relevant actions, the Law on the Civil Service can be used, and so on. There is a very high public sensitivity on this issue, and we have consistently defended this principle. So we are still defending the principle of depolitization of Bulgarian education. However, the current bill does not solve problems, but rather the opposite written in such broad borders, it can increase subjectivism, fear and promote the removal of current authority's inconvenient teachers and directors. Our government has made a great effort to increase the status and reputation of Bulgarian teachers in society and we do not accept the restriction of their freedom as an act in this direction. On the contrary, the current texts pose a risk for educators to be pointed at with their finger again. I will be interested in the position of the Ministry of Education on various initiatives that are currently taking place in the Bulgarian education system and which are initiated by Bulgarian MPs. There are such initiatives, for example, a study is currently being carried out in Burgas on the attitudes and problems that the Bulgarian education system has, by a colleague from the. An initiative that is good, but how is it interpreted? Is it being interpreted as political activity at the moment in Bulgarian schools? There will be no other outcome but to open the door to self-harassment between the guidance of schools and teachers who have different beliefs and understandings. The school should remain a place for creativity and innovation, not a place where there will be constant repression and fear. We are convinced of the thesis that in textbooks, study materials and tools there should be no politicisation and unilateral fascination to partyity, but at the same time we defend our view that every teacher as a citizen should be free to choose where and how to join and no one has the right to impose restrictions on him. Including the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria it is written that no one can be persecuted and restricted for their beliefs. The possibilities for a subjective interpretation of the proposed texts after their possible adoption will be very large. From then on, this law will apply to the extent that the person applying it will have the necessary ethics, professionalism and integrity or will use it as a curtain, political pressure and dismissals. We have already seen what happened during the election campaign and to what extent a number of teachers were limited. They themselves in the last election campaign did not want to join the election programs for fear of being fired afterwards, to be included as people who would give their opinion on future policies. Do we want the education policy to be done in the future without the participation of teachers and without the participation of people who are part of the education system? In this sense, it is worrying to us that all parties declare that education is their priority, but they would therefore like to exclude teachers and directors from participating in the development of future education policies. It was understandable that this bill was put in place when you, Minister, were Minister of the Service then organized the elections and accordingly you had your political arguments to submit the bill. However, today you are a regular minister and I would like to ask you: since there are over 100 proposals for amendments to the Pre-school and School Education Act, which are made by teachers, directors, NGOs, why do we only start with this change? There are many changes in this law that are expected by the Bulgarian society, including teachers and parents, and we do not propose any of these changes, and we continue with that. Is this the main agenda at the moment of Bulgarian education and why you chose to start your career as a regular minister with this change? After all, you cannot be convincing enough that there is no demand for revenge and that there is no demand for a way for Bulgarian teachers to be limited in their political activities. We call on you to reconsider your views on the texts of this bill. They need to be refined because we're sure that their subjective interpretation will result in the opposite effect, not the one you're trying to convince us that you're chasing right now. Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u66	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Several topics have been addressed. The first is that there is no need for this law, because everything has already been done by the GERB party. I'm sorry, if you'd done at least a quarter of what you just declared you did, we wouldn't be here today discussing this topic. As has become clear from other speeches, the problem is very serious and has been aggravated in recent years. Secondly, no one limits the rights you mention. Look at the text, there is no such restriction. Thirdly, I am constantly working with colleagues in the Board of Industry, who are representatives of different parties and who participate from different parties in municipal councils. There is no problem in this. I find it an exceptional value for delivering an expert opinion, of expert opinion from the educational system to the political authorities. There is no such limit anywhere in these texts. And as mentioned, yes, texts can be specified, but this does not mean that there is no need for such text in the Law, because otherwise we do not have any means of control today. What I want to say clearly as a suggestion, yes, these texts come from the office, because then they were accepted, now is the time for them to come here. As a regular minister, I am working on all the other proposals that have been made. They are currently being formed in a working group with the participation of all social partners and will be submitted to the Council of Ministers and to the National Assembly when they are ready. Because this bill has its place, regardless of the other changes that need to be made. So there's no drama in it. When the other proposals concerning the attestation, inspection, quality assessment will be submitted to the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u67	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Repliki "Nastimir Ananiev," Hristo Simeonov and Dragomir Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, you said: Bulgarian educators should not be fingered. The problem is not for us to point the finger at Bulgarian educators, but to actually point at the bad practices that have been used in the last 10 years. And I'll tell you three that I've encountered exactly in this field. The first one is related to a school in Sofia, on Oborishte Street, where the security guard did not let anyone in unless he is a member of GERB. First he asked: are you a member of GERB and then let go to the director. The second thing I've encountered is in the July campaign in Pazardzhik your leaf leader then gave 50 BGN. Graduate vouchers during the campaign. I am very interested in how you will answer: how you would define 50 BGN. a voucher during a campaign? How do you feel about this thing, the seniors gathered by the Director, of course, and the applicant, the leader of the list, served 50 BGN. a voucher? And the third, again during the July campaign, then the head of the RVO had gathered all the principals and teachers, again for a meeting with your party's candidate. So there are a lot of specific problems that we need to deal with and, no, there is a need, you say: there is no need. There is a need to give some self-esteem to the Bulgarian teachers and directors first, because at the moment there is fear with them if they do not listen, they will be changed. So we want to give them self-esteem, not to be afraid that someone might exert pressure on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, first of all, I would like to thank you for the high grade you give to this initiative. Secondly, I would like to disagree with you that there is enough legal basis to control political activity in the field of education. When you say that there is such a base, which is contained in the Law on the Civil Service Officer, the Law on the Civil Service, regulates only the position of civil servants, and one in the field of education is the head of the Regional Education Administration. The directors are not placed below this norm. It is therefore necessary to introduce any further orders in this direction. Regarding this study, which you mentioned and said whether it could not be interpreted as a political activity, in order to have political activity, we read in the Law that it was about imposing certain requirements for employees in the field of education, imposing some ideology, some doctrine and so on. This study shall be carried out in agreement with the executive, with the local authorities, in agreement with the Head of Regional Government and on an absolutely voluntary basis. No one is required to participate in this study. Teachers, directors, vice-directors, logos signed up completely voluntarily, so there's no way it's political activity and any imposition of party activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u71	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. And Mr. Stoinev, let's hear about a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, this bill is being made precisely to prevent what you have achieved in recent years. Before there was no problem in the field of education because teachers did not deal with politics. Since GERB came to power, you have delivered precisely both education and teachers, and directors all have to be from the Political Party GERB, and everyone has started to engage in politics. It's the truth and accept it. And here the colleague is right how to crush the directors of schools during election campaigns, how really the MPs of GERB are the most favoured, who have no place there. And the question is not to limit the political work of teachers, and there should be no political work at all, teachers should not be involved in politics at all. But what GERB has done over the last 12 years has led to this bill. Congratulations to the minister for bringing it in, nothing that he brought it in during the office, but it really needs to be built up, because in education it is not only important to raise the salary of teachers, of course, that it is good, but it must also improve quality, quality, Mrs. Sacheva, with knowledgeable and capable people. However, with you knowing and able people are only those who are from the Political Party GERB, i.e. the political loyal incompetents you appointed them and now you are worried about them, you see, because if we accidentally change them, it is because of their political affiliation. The reason is not: they should not engage in politics. And I am glad, and I am convinced that you will support this bill, so we should really restore the dignity of the Bulgarian teacher, who should not only educate, but perhaps start and educate. Because our society has really turned into a huge prostration. After all, you have a leader to follow.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u73	Mr. Stoynev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u74	But unfortunately, it's the truth. And in order for the status of the Bulgarian teacher to return, he must be independent and should not engage in politics, he should not be a member of GERB because there are municipalities where in a school and the cleaning lady must belong to GERB in order to be appointed to work. This is what we are fighting against, and I hope that with this bill we will really break it once and for all this ugly niche, which is from politicians and, of course, when elections come, all the MPs. I'm not going to give the other examples in regional inspectors how they call all directors during a campaign.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u75	Time, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u76	So the bill is good. Yes, I understand your concerns. Yes, you really need to improve between first and second readings, but ultimately this bill is the result of your work in recent years. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u77	Time, Mr. Stoinev. Thank you. I only ask that we refrain from such references to third parties who are not present. Denitsa Sacheva's hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u78	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! First of all, in terms of suggestion, because the Minister has used that word several times. I do not know what suggestions you are talking about regarding the political party GERB. If any of you here in this Chamber can with your hand deny that within the last four years, more than 2 billion have been invested in Bulgarian education. BGN, outside the costs that were determined by gross domestic product, if any of you can say lightly that the salaries of teachers have not been increased, if you, Mr. Minister, can deny that 50 thousand children have been returned to class and you yourself continue this initiative, then continue to suggest that during the management of the political party GERB nothing has happened in the Bulgarian education. I strongly disagree with any of the practices that have been brought out here, and I told you that whenever practices that are illegal and have been abuse of Bulgarian education, we and Mr. Krasimir Valchev, when we worked together as a team and when we did not work as a team, have always taken part in them. I cannot agree that there may be such a practice as you say, Mr. Ananiev, that the doorman at the entrance of the school will stop someone and ask them which party he is. I hope, however, that the pressure on the Ministry of Education for current dismissals, both from the Ministry of Education and from the Bulgarian Socialist Party, will finally come after this bill, because we also receive constant signals of how different people are persecuted because they have participated in various political campaigns. What we are trying to tell you is that this bill in no way solves any problems. I would ask you, Mr. Stoinev, how will you comment on the behavior of Milko Bagdasarov in Kardzhali, who regularly uses Bulgarian education for the benefit of the Bulgarian Socialist Party? [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria]] And why has there been no reaction by the Bulgarian Socialist Party so far? So as for Mr. Simeonov, I really like his initiative. I believe that it is useful and necessary, but I think that if he was not a member of the Council of Ministers, we continue to change, he certainly would not have received the assistance of the institutions and certainly would not have been favorable by the Regional Government. If he were an opposition MP, most likely, phones would be ringing at the Ministry of Education and asking: "Can we do this and will we be fired if we do this? " So with this bill, we're actually doing something much scarier, we're opening up Pandora's box. Again, I call on the texts to be refined if we really all strive to have depoliticisation of Bulgarian education. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Blagovest Belev is listed for speech. Mr. Belev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a different order, but since you gave me the floor, I'll continue with the discussion. In fact, I think the discussion should come to an end.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u81	Five are recorded for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u82	I listened carefully to Mrs. Sacheva. Mrs. Sacheva, the key word in your speech was ethics. This is where I want to go from here. The ethics that teachers have to do their job with, I think it's high enough not to distort the idea of their presence at school. During the discussion on the budget, we commented on some changes in education that occurred during the management of GERB and during the management of GERB, former Minister Valchev was quite active in this regard, and I think that this should not be denied. But unfortunately, the financial motive in the teachers largely replaced the values with which they entered the class and the values with which they raised Bulgarian children. Do the staff assigned to a school by a politically bound employer, I would say, makes teachers politically bound? Officially not, but it is with the desire to maintain their place that they already feel responsible for being politically correct, and to be politically correct to the one who is a benefactor for their appointment. I would like to add Varna to the examples of bad practices. I have received signals about how the right people are expected, competitions are stopped, so that those who have to be appointed to positions, if you will, in the position of a teacher, to reach the necessary age, the necessary competence and the competitions are retained. I am convinced that this law has a place in the legislation and legislative programme of the National Assembly. I'll support him. I believe that our parliamentary group will also support it so that both the police, the army and higher education are cleared of political bias and... [[Heckling]] Yes, Mr. Valchev set an example in this regard.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u83	You're an MP, not a teacher.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u84	These lecturers, in order to participate in the campaign, have taken unpaid leave, Mr. Bikov, I assure you, and are currently on unpaid leave. That's what I mean. We will support the Bill, and whatever problems arise, I do not believe any dramatic changes will occur, between first and second readings, they will be cleared by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u85	Thank you, Mr. Belev. Here you are, Professor Tonev, for a line. Then Krasimir Valchev and Hristo Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u86	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Belev, I am taking a reply to you because you mentioned the area of Varna and provoked me for a signal that has reached me. I will allow myself to read it, it is a very short signal from Dimitar Rachkov Kirilov, Director of the Secondary School After his entry into office, a number of missing documents relating to the school's academic and administrative activities have been found and these missings have started to be removed. In the process of day-to-day work, more violations have been detected and removed. Note, the signal was issued on 17 February 2022, so it is for a period of about two months........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Before this period, RIO Varna did not draw up any constitutional protocol and issued no order with a prescription regarding the preparation of documents related to the beginning of the school year, which was several months before that. Mrs. Bistra Boycheva, who has been in charge of the position of the Director, has so far assumed that the documentation has so far been completely correct and has not produced any signals and has not conducted any documentary correspondence with the RVO. The subject of the checks carried out by the RIO Varna, in most cases were signals of a violation for the past periods, for which RIO Varna has repeatedly issued constant protocols in which there are no findings of violations committed, as I said. In recent months RIO Varna has carried out checks on the same case several times. Initiating these signals and complaints are people from the local authorities of GERB and DPS and from the previous management of the school in the face of Mrs. Boycheva, which I quoted, and Mr. Bati Ahmedov, who put unprecedented pressure on parents and employees in the school and municipal administration in Suvorovo and citizens of the municipality, forcing them to write unjustified signals and complaints. A few days after this signal was made, Mr. Kirilov was dismissed from the position of "Secretary of secondary school" by order of Director of RIO Varna, who was appointed by GERB. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u87	The weather, Mr. Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u88	Last sentence, Mr. Chairman. We understand your motives, the problem is that we understand them very well, and that is what gives us reason and the power to want there to be such a law that will stop both the directors appointed by the RVO and all the others subsequently and in the future to have such an arbitrariness. Thank you. I'm taking this opportunity to pass on this signal to Minister Denkov. [[Passing a folder to Minister Nikolai Denkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u89	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. Mr. Valchev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u90	I'll use the case for a note to Mr. Tonev. Mr. Tonev, check the facts. I didn't hear what year it was from, but neither the current Head of the Regional Government, Varna, nor the previous one who was retired, was appointed by GERB. The transitional was appointed during the Oresharski government, and you said that the repression was conducted by the Head of Regional Government, appointed by GERB. Once again, I would like to repeat that we have said from the very beginning that we are not against the principle of depoliticisation in the Preschool and School Education Act. But this principle has always been valid and there have always been problems, there have been signals, there have been attempts at political interference. I don't accept the suggestion that you see, one ten years is more marked than another ten years. I can give you many examples from the previous ten years, I can give you many examples from the last ten months, and most of all depends on culture, on the app that sends the Minister of Education down to structures, because those who participate in the competitions for directors are employees of regional governments or the Ministry. If the minister says, as the previous half-mouthed yes, there will be no political interference, I will not accept MPs from the ruling majority, or leaders of party structures to ask for political dismissals, then there will indeed be less depoliticisation, but not when we offer such declarative laws to a large extent. There is no doubt that the use of an electronic diary, the use of a service email is a violation. Mr. Nikolov gave an example from Shumen, and I will give you another example from Shumen for the last ten months. The municipality of Hitrino in the July elections is the most democratic municipality. "Democratic Bulgaria" won 68% or something like that. There is no other municipality in which the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria earns so much. The mayor of Hitrino is a leading factor in this regard. He has only one condition to fire the Director of the Middle School in Hitrino or one basic condition if you allow me to finish my example. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The Director opposes giving the school lands to the Municipality. School lands that people a century ago and something donated to education. In the last elections, the Municipality of Hitrino supports another political power from the ruling majority. Another month of October, we wrote that pressure was taking place and there are scenarios to replace the school principal in Hitrino. Here is the politicization in the last ten months. The checks started at the beginning of the year, the director is currently being pressured to move, and this is an example of how to abuse a school, school positions, without talking about any political appointment before that. Because Mr. Svilensky asked the question: "Can there be political dismissals without political appointments?" Yeah, there might be. Some parties were created later...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u91	The weather, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u92	...for example, if you're sympathetic to the age, you can only be fired because you're sympathetic to the age without being appointed as one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u93	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Is there a third line? I won't. For a statement? Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u94	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to return the debate to its beginning, where Mrs. Galunova addressed us carefully to read the motives and therefore I want to define the concept of motive. The concept of motive contains the idea of an urge or reason for any action. All the examples that have been given so far show us that no matter who has been a ruling coalition, political activity and party cadres in the education system are being carried out. I would like to read to you one of the relations that were expressed during the public discussion of this draft law. Thank God education is finally accepted to be depoliticized. For the first time, there is the will of governors on such a significant issue to end the use of political umbrella and influence for people holding leadership positions in the field of education, which affects all stakeholders. I am witnessing how many years of political ties have been used in the appointments of school principals and forcing others to vote according to the political order. We, civil society, are extremely grateful that this will not continue. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] This is Hadjiyotova, strategy.bg, in the public discussion the documents of the public discussion. [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u95	Mrs. Atanasova, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u96	There's a lot of them. I chose this because I think it mostly corresponds to my response to the motives. The second thing we all as MPs from the Committee on Education and Science have received in our post office, this is a signal, as it needs to be checked. So I'm not going to tell you where it came from, but I'm going to consider the basic elements as motives for this project, which is currently being offered to us. The Head of the RVO appears openly in media publications in connection with political activity and appearances of the same party in interviews, in election lists, several times at party meetings with school principals. Such activity undermines the educational system, staff and students, showing the public that there is a particular political connection to the management frame in the system. Corruption in power is not limited to financial abuse, but also to corruption and power arising from office. The appointments of directors and experts in the RVO have become a bargaining chip in order to maintain power positions for 12 years. Here, Mrs. Galunova, motives, motivation, reason for action. What we are telling you today is that it is about imposing a particular doctrine and using a leadership position to force subordinates to support a particular party ideology and/or vote in elections. Party line appointments have turned the GERB-SDS coalition into a slender system of party dependencies guaranteeing a lucrative job position. This mechanism also works with full force in the field of education, where a large percentage of people holding management functions are members or sympathizers of a particular party. Politics, ladies and gentlemen, by definition, is the art of ruling the state in the name of the common good. Politics is seeking participation in power, in its taking, retention, use and distribution. A question was asked what is politics? Politics exists in two forms as science and as real action. Politics in the English language is expressed by two different words. "Rolicy" means a program, a method of action or the very action of an individual or group on a given problem, or a set of problems of a community. Politics is applied to the area of rivalry or opposition to various policies. In this sense, politics exists as a real action and represents different forms of participation of citizens in the government of the state, but politics also exists as science and there it is called political science, political science. The depoliticisation of society and the reluctance to realize the fundamental right of choice is the result of the lack of knowledge and belief in the value of each vote for the choice of power, which would mostly lead to a common good. For this reason, in the second degree of high school education and training was introduced the subject of Civic education, whose function is to familiarize students with the concepts of politics, ideology, religion, electoral systems, democracy, corruption, mechanisms to combat it. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not political activity at school. This is the formation of a new type of civil society, consisting of informed and familiar with its rights citizens, ready to actively participate in the creation of the common good. However, action on the imposition of certain positions and favouritization of a certain ideology and party of party entities who have received power is unacceptable in the field of education. This is also the purpose of the amendments and additions set out in the bill under discussion. Power by nature is always seeking entry into the territory of another freedom. The law, ladies and gentlemen, is a symmetry of freedom. Limits guaranteeing a specific form of justice in society. In this sense, I call on you to vote on the proposed bill, creating limits to the abuse of power in the educational system. Thank you. [[Applause from Continued Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u97	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. For a line, Mrs. Galunova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't understand why Mr. Simeonov twice mentioned my name and what you really wanted to say, tell me, and show. If you have listened carefully, the two times when I have spoken, I have clearly motivated what exactly I mean as a discrepancy in the motives of the proposed bill. I even read some of the text of the motives, which I regret the Minister wasn't in the Chamber at the time. We have clearly justified our position that teachers should be politically impartial in their workplace, but outside their workplace they should have all the other rights that provide them with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. And the reason was that there were prerequisites that teachers could be held responsible if they were to run for political office. If you wish, I can read them to you again in case you were not in the room then or have not listened carefully. That's them. On the other hand, there are numerous cases where officials from regional education departments in the country also engage in political activity and actively participate in events during election campaigns for the various types of elections in the country, both in the process of carrying out campaigning and in their capacity as candidates on behalf of parties and coalitions. And a little further down the road, it goes on again: "Such activities related to the expression of political beliefs and election campaigning affect the principle of political neutrality and can lead to unacceptable consequences for the pre-school and school education system. " Yes, once again, we agree that in their workplace teachers and directors of regional education governments must be impartial, but outside their workplace we must not allow them to create prerequisites for limiting their electoral rights. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And at the end, I will stress again to those who are negotiating the reasons are an integral part of the bill and an essential part because they show the objectives of the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. Hristo Gazhev for the second line. Come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Simeonov, thank you for your semantics and for clarifying the concepts. I hope that between the lines you will be able to see and what is the difference between the concepts of......... and.............. because sometimes the signals are actually purely and simply input. Also to get acquainted with the long practice in Bulgarian history, inherited from the good practices of the Bulgarian Communist Party for Writing Deliveries for Career Development.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u101	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u102	I just feel obliged to make it clear that everywhere in the Law it is said that these restrictions, which we are talking about, concern the performance of the duties of each of the persons responsible for the regional management of education, directors, employees, only in the performance of their business relations. So please do not imply that any other restrictions are required or other restrictions are introduced, because the text of the Law does not imply such a restriction.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u103	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Cholakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u104	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! Mr. Minister, obviously we read different things or put different meaning into the texts we read, but finally someone will have to apply these texts, and will apply them literally. I agree with Mrs. Galunova and the negotiators. Colleagues, I don't know if we realize that we, with this bill, are banning 90,000 teachers from joining parties and forbid them from participating as candidates for elections. Ninety thousand people! [[Heckling]] No, no, that's the result. That'll be the result. 90 thousand teachers, if they would like to run for elections on the list of a political party for municipal councilors or for something else, should be dismissed or resigned. Very please, once again read what you have offered and think about it, because, as you know, the right must have a prognostic function. And the prognostic function means keeping an account of the causal links and what follows from these texts that we accept. And besides, Mr. Minister, if you insist that teachers can't run for electoral posts, because that's what I'm saying again, let's offer the same for the higher education system. Why should university professors be able to take political positions and run and teachers can't? So when we say "A" we have to say "B" as well. If a teacher's ban is accepted... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because that's what's next. Please read Additional provision No 1 of the Bill. Read it and you will understand that they cannot be members of political parties and cannot run. I'll ask for the same for the professors of higher education. Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u105	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Here you are, Minister, you have the floor. Colleagues, please, not from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u106	Apparently Mr. Cholakov is reading another text, not the one proposed for the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u107	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A hole, Mr. Simeonov, would you like one? Here you are, Mr. Simeonov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What Mrs. Galunova read to us corresponds to what I set as an example. I have witnessed in the building of the school in which I taught how the Head of the Regional Government used the functions of the Director we were two high schools of our neighboring high school, which was trained in the same building, to be held inside party meetings of GERB party. So there are many examples, many pressing prerequisites for this bill to be passed and become a law. Mr. Gazhev, we live in a democratic country. Then when they talk about snitches, then people by snitch just take them out and send them to a gulag. [[Heckling]] Since we live in such a country, there are procedures that are followed. One of them is that when we get the signal, we send it to the relevant institution that is authorized to check it, carry out the relevant checks and finally get feedback. If there is a breach, the person who has committed the infringement shall be sanctioned accordingly. Donos are anonymously written, and by law they should be paid attention, but not so seriously. So I said that I was talking specifically about a signal and that there are procedures that have been developed, thanks to which these signals are being checked. I didn't understand the third line, she wasn't addressed to me. It was kind of a statement, so I can't answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u109	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think we've heard absolutely everything a few times and all the arguments are already clear and precise. I therefore propose that we call off the debate after everyone has signed up, end this discussion and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u111	A reverse opinion? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u112	That's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u113	Mr. Nikolov, we're at the first reading. Your request for an end to the debate is not admissible. Mr. Kostadinov is listed for a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u114	Mr. Chairman! The bill we are currently looking at is one thing, to put it mildly, you little brat. When he first submitted it to the Forty-Sixth National Assembly, Education Minister Nikolay Denkov prepared for elections and had apparently quite short-term goals. With the second amendment and completed project already in the current Forty-Seventh National Assembly, on December 31st, the minister also obviously aims to do the same, or as he likes to joke, he does not again have elections under these rules. This is in the audio recording in the discussion in the Commission, i.e. without those texts for which he insists. It is clear that the Minister of Education expects recent elections and insists, and wishes to have the opportunity to punish and fire pedagogical specialists for political and party activities before and during their conduct, that is to say, he expects to be a minister of service again. After all, so much information in just one sentence missed during the discussion in the Commission. Now get to the point. The proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Preschool and School Education Act does not aim to free Bulgarian schools and kindergartens from political and party activities. On the contrary, it aims to ban the political and party activities of all other participants, without the political formation of Minister Denkov, because, as stated in the proposal of 31 December, party activity is any activity carried out on behalf and/or at the expense of a political party registered under the terms and conditions of the Law on Political Parties, or of a coalition or committee of initiative registered for participation in elections under the terms of the Election Code. However, the activities of political parties are always prohibited for pedagogical specialists, for coalitions when they register for elections, and for It's not a party. We don't expect anyone to campaign for Volt, or anyone else there, do we?! [[Laughter]] Very perfidious, Minister Denkov, and also hidden behind the care for teachers and children. Furthermore, putting political activity in the banning list of schools together with alcohol, smoking, drugs and gambling is an impractical move that the Bulgarian National Assembly has not allowed before now either by the Law on People's Education in 1991, after the 45-year rule of the Bulgarian Communist Party, nor in 2015 by the Law on preschool and school education, which, fortunately, was not introduced by the Ministry of Education and Science through the Council of Ministers, but by MPs. Even then, the MON was deliberately kept away for a reason. The Bulgarian MPs also then did not allow themselves to ban political activity because political activity is a fundamental right and a decision-making mechanism and gives the face of free societies in the democratic state, and our freedom is missing much in recent years, including now... in our time, now here. The argument used to ban political activity in higher schools is not understood by the Minister and is used in a coup. In higher schools, all governance bodies are elected, and where there are elections, political parties quickly find ground. Schools choose only student councils from underage and underage children. If we continue to talk to our children that politics is banned, as gambling is prohibited, less and less of them will want to be actively involved first in school, then in student life and finally in public life. Most of us here have come this way. Looks like someone's trying to stop this. Violation of these provisions depending on the specific nature of the case may involve disciplinary liability, the reasons say. Which regulations are we talking about? In the reasons of a reference for reporting the proposals received from the public consultation of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education, published on the website of the portal for public consultation, as required by art. 26 of the Law on Laws, we read: "The changes in the provisions introduced aim to regulate at legal level the independence of the system of pre-school and school education. "Disciplinary responsibility before and during elections is the motive of the applicant. In other words, stronger control over 100,000 workers, I repeat: 100,000 workers in preschool and school education institutions. And now, most importantly, rejection of political doctrines is also a political doctrine. Other political doctrines other than that of the ruling Communist Party were rejected in Bulgaria until 1989. Your first proposal, Mr. Denkov, should have been the dropping of art. 135, para. 1, t. 7 of the Preschool and School Education Act, which says the following: The student has the following obligations: not to use mobile phones and other technical and electronic means during an hour without the teacher's permission. Well, all Bulgarian teachers, all Bulgarian students have been systematically violating it for two years. What do we do with them? Next, you had to get acquainted with the texts of the Election Code. Art. 182. (1) No election campaign is allowed in state and municipal offices, institutions, state and municipal enterprises and in commercial companies with more than 50 percent state or municipal participation in the capital. Where schools still fall anyway at this time, and always so far. But since they are very rarely already operating in buildings, you probably want to ban the e-criticism of pedagogical specialists to you, which is clearly implied in the texts. Perhaps you should have read Section "Crimes against the political rights of citizens" in the Penal Code, which states that which, through violence, intimidation or other illegal way, prevented someone from fulfilling their constitutional political rights, is punishable by imprisonment of up to three years or a fine of 100 to 300 BGN. Instead, you chose to mislead the Education Committee in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, and on 19 January this year you stated that this was the same bill from August 2021 which had passed the necessary public consultation procedure. It's the second hour, the 40th minute of the audio recording. This completely contradicts the good tone and traditions of this committee, Mr. Minister. How can it be the same when in § 3 of August to the pedagogical specialists who should be party...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u115	Mr. Kostadinov, your group's time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u116	Yeah, ten seconds to go. After in § 3 of August to the pedagogical specialists who must be party neutral, you add the directors and vice-directors, and they are pedagogical specialists according to art. 211, para. 1 of the Law on pre-school and school education and you have added a new § 6 which has not gone through public discussion. By the way, Mr. Denkov, you missed the head accountants. I've heard that they are much more important than directors, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u117	Time, Mr. Kostadinov, 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u118	In conclusion, ARRANGEMENT is categorically against this bill, submitted without public consultation, as required by art. 26, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts, containing senseless, harmful or funny texts with one goal only to relieve Nikolay Denkov, as he said, of the obligation to make elections again under these rules. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u119	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Dilov for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kostadinov, I'm impressed with your analysis. He gave me two questions. Apply the same analyticality and tell me, perhaps the Minister will answer, within the meaning of these changes we are about to make, will there be faith in the Bulgarian school or will there not be? Because there is a member who expressly prohibits the imposition of religious doctrines. That's an interesting question. And one question to ask you as a historian because I know that you are very fascinated: if this law existed during the time of Dimitar Blagoev and Georgi Kirkov, would there be a BSP today, or would there not be? [[Noise and lines on the left.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u121	Mr. Dilov... Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u122	I don't know if there'll be a study of faith, Mr. Dilov. Under this law, it shouldn't be studied. In fact, it does not have faith, but there is an object of religion, which is a free-for-all preparation. I also asked another question during the discussion because it is about political doctrines and ideologies. The Bulgarian national idea is also a political idea and doctrine based on which the Bulgarian revival and the Bulgarian state are built. This is taught at school. In fact, there is a special lesson on the origin of the Bulgarian national liberation ideology. This was quite formulated then and quite strongly argued by the Minister. Of course, he'll become an old habit to talk after me again, I guess, but the point is, we never got an explanation, so there's a possibility of interpretation. When you leave an opportunity for interpretation, you leave one huge power in the hands of the ruling minister, in this case, whoever he is, he won't be a minister soon, probably after him another, whoever he is, shouldn't be allowed to do that. As for the other, yes, if there was such a law in force, neither Dimitar Blagoev nor Kirkov nor anyone else could develop their own, let us say, political ideologies, because the main political table came then by young people, young people who were attracted by the new political ideologies. And one of the places where the ideology actually propaganda, whether left or right, was then Sofia University. There is a case in which he was imprisoned once, by the way, throughout his history, by Ferdinand, when he was booed by students. Ferdinand then closed it and then, as a result of the sharp public reaction condemning this brutal political interference in the activities of the only Bulgarian higher education establishment then, was forced literally a few days later to open it. What, by the way, to him was one of the first defeats and his little defeat on the domestic political scene. So if we really go looking for examples in history, we'll see a lot in our history, of course, why we shouldn't do what's now being promoted here. It is certain that there are cases of political interference and they cannot be challenged, people of the ruling majority said. There you can't tell the black white, it's a fact. And you, by the way, here as governors, also have your wines, because some of these examples are directed at you yourself. But just because you've done something wrong doesn't mean that now others have to do the same. Evil cannot be overcome with evil, and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u123	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Professor Mihailov is listed for speaking. Would you like another word, Professor? Here you are from BSP for Bulgaria and you have a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! We're in this discussion today because we have to tell each other the truth. Thanks to the unfortunate adoption of the Preschool and School Education Act 2016 Until 2016, the secondary education system worked under the Law on People's Education, much of the colleagues in the Committee on Education and Science, who were teachers and had a real idea of the work then at school, know that the school was a territory without political activity. Colleague teachers had their constitutional right and freedom to be sympathetic or members of any political party, but they never allowed themselves to campaign or conduct party propaganda at school, taking advantage of the well-functioning and disciplined system of education in the Ministry of Education chain. It was! Until the unfortunate adoption of the Preschool and School Education Act in 2016, where similar texts are missing. This wide opened the door of a particular party to invade unprecedentedly and afford to subdue the system of education to itself and succeeded to some extent. There's been a lot of signals for us over the last six years. The examples of the colleagues listed them. I said just now that the Preschool and School Education Act is unfortunate because it has never succeeded in fulfilling its main task to improve the quality of education. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just a second. The fact is the abuse. However, this political abuse of the guild must be interrupted. The school and colleagues must preserve their freedom to be teachers, directors, heads of RIOs, subject only to the clear principles of education, not party commands, to any party management of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u125	The weather, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u126	What Bulgarian teachers and the whole system deserve is support, predictability, calmness and without fear to focus on the real work of education of the nation and the return of the quality of education to the Bulgarian society. In this sense, BSP will support the Law at first reading as well. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u127	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Here's a line for you, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u128	Thank you. Ms. Nencheva, you said that the adoption of a law in which a provision is lacking has led to a total change in the system and suddenly depoliticizes it. But you forgot to specify what is this provision that existed in the previous bill and does not exist in the new one. Obviously, you're trying to suggest that because of the Preschool and School Education Act, a total politicization has suddenly occurred in the system. That's not true. In fact, this is part of your attempt to suggest that the last 10 years there has only been a politicization before that there has been none, and the last 10 months there has also been none. Unfortunately, there is another part of the truth and much of the people in the system know it. It is that this bill is being made to justify repression in the last 10 months.. the detentions of teachers, the ban on participating... [[(Noise and lines. Announcements from the BSP for Bulgaria]] There was a hold-up. In Samokov there were detentions of teachers and directors. Excuse me, interrogations, interrogations. There were interrogations of teachers and directors just on the basis of input. This is even uglier than all the examples of politicisation that you have set out, one part of which is undoubtedly true. Again, you should not use official resources, you should not use electronic logs, but there is no provision not to use official resources. Is there such a provision not to use official resources? The best way to depoliticize the system is to repeat it to you, I told you once, stop going to the Ministry of Education, calm down party structures, because you have the most structures that want to change directors, employees, heads of regional governments. Give an example of depolitization yourself and thus we will have a good effect. Because what's happening right now, you know. It is heard, it is clear where they come from and the signals, who writes them, which party structure these signals are written about. It is a pity that you are using the topic of depolitization for political strife. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u129	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Is there a second line, colleagues? Mrs. Nalbant, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Nencheva, I fully agree with the qualification of the Law you have made. I'd even tame in quotes even more that qualification. I'd like to call the Law written about Logorea, but I'd like to hold on to the words you said about the hierarchy. Dear colleagues, the problem is not the teachers, the problem is not the pedagogical specialists. In all this hierarchy of subordination from a minister through a head of regional government to a director, I would add to this hierarchy and external factors. I would add, I regret that the President of the National Assembly is not here, and I would like to give an example of his name so that I do not quote the name of a person who is not in the Chamber, but I will quote the name of the person who is not in the Chamber. When a President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva, ordered everything to do its will. The problem, honourable Members, is very small in the education system. There is a problem as far as overdoing it with some people who take office leads to perversions. Therefore, as I said last time, we will abstain from the first vote. We will propose changes to the texts, as some of these texts can really lead to undesirable consequences, but we are indeed a group that is extremely fond of depolitization. Only the depoliticization that comes from the outside, not from the education system itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Nalbant. Is there a third line? For the duvet, Ms. Nencheva, would you like the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! Mr. Valchev, the fact is that there is a rise in moods, a reversal of truth and suggestion, but in relation to these texts, which we are currently looking at at first reading. There is also a trendy tension among the guild against these proposals of the PID, which is unfounded and strives to continue to serve someone's interests, but not the interests of the Bulgarian teachers. We have stated a benevolent willingness to refine the proposals between first and second readings. We have opinions and proposals that will be dealt with between first and second readings in the Commission. At an organized discussion a few weeks ago with colleagues from Plovdiv and the city were shared worries, as well as proposals to the Preschool and School Education Act to completely drop out and work on a new law in the system. Can you imagine? Even this is enough to indicate the mishap of the Preschool and School Education Act. You yourself have confirmed that the practices that have been observed since its introduction are really worrying. So if, then, in the near 2016, things were right with the Preschool and School Education Act, we wouldn't have to towel on a piece all the time now. You are witnesses of this. Mrs. Nalbant, I agree with what you've embarrassed. I have to say that, as early as 2018 from the National Assembly's stand here, the group of the DPS firmly stated that the appointments to the system, 80% of the appointments to the education system, were made only with the protections of the then ruling party. So for the chain of political pressure is clear and once again I can repeat that the system of education is the most working and disciplined system in education right along this chain of education. And we here in this Chamber must realise that we must have a dialogue between first and second readings, because what deserves our education system, teachers and directors is really calm and without fear to focus on the real work in education and this is a return of the quality of education in Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u133	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Obviously, the proposed bill stirred up the spirits in plenary. But I would like to say that our parliamentary group will not support it, not because it is proposed by the ruling coalition and its Council of Ministers, but because we see very serious contradictions with the Law on Legislative Acts and with the Bulgarian Constitution. Once again, I also address you, Mr Minister, as a member of the Council of Ministers, as if it is now becoming a practice for the ministries to submit some texts which have been publicly discussed at a meeting of the Council of Ministers and then for others to appear in the National Assembly as additional provisions which are not publicly discussed. With regard to what I think we should all agree on, is the change in § 1 of the Law that the imposition of ideological, political or religious doctrines in educational institutions should not be allowed. That's an indisputable fact! The calling of the teacher, of the teaching profession is to form personalities, but should not be imposed in educational institutions different by type of doctrines, as you have described them in the provision of the proposed law. However, with the following proposals in the paragraphs you have created, including the Additional provision of § 6 in relation to party activities, you are making a new definition in the Law on School and Preschool Education, which is undoubtedly appropriate to be regulated in the Law on Political Parties. And that's not really the biggest problem. The biggest problem, Minister, is that we believe that in this law, which you proposed to the National Assembly, there are categorically texts which restrict civil and political rights, which categorically contradict art. Art. 6 and Art. 6 11 of the Bulgarian Constitution. Art. 6 of the Bulgarian Constitution is adamant that all citizens are equal before the law and do not allow any restrictions on their rights based on race, nationality, ethnicity, gender, origin, religion, education, belief, political affiliation or personal and social status, property status. Art. 11 says that political life in the Republic of Bulgaria is based on the principle of political pluralism. The parties contribute to the formation and expression of the political will of the citizens, the order for the formation and termination of political parties are governed by law, and this law is precisely the Law on political parties. In this sense, it is an absolutely wrong norm for me, which gives a definition of political activity to be recorded in the Law on School and Preschool Education. Moreover, this norm introduces a ban which restricts the political and civil rights of workers in this system. Yes, it is very clear that, as I said, political activity should not be allowed in educational institutions. Just as I don't know if you reacted, for example, during the election campaign of the president who appointed you minister of service, there was an autonomous university whose rector was on his initiative committee, which publicly stated its political bias on the university's website. This was the Rector of Veliko Tarnovo University. I don't know, Minister, did you react in any way to the signal that was issued by the student community at this university and was public. In this sense, and although it is about people who are adults and who can form their political beliefs at that time, I find it absolutely unacceptable by this law that you should violate the rights of Bulgarian citizens, in this case those working in this system, because the ban you introduce will limit them to running for any electoral posts for municipal councilors, MPs, president and vice president of the Republic and so on. I believe that, despite our insistence, you will not decide to withdraw this bill, and it may be adopted at first reading, but at least I call on you, Mr. Minister, to understand the norms that our Constitution has introduced, which apply to all Bulgarian citizens, even if they do not know them or comply with them and which have direct effect on Bulgarian legislation. Finally, Minister, I think we should remember the words of the great philosopher Immanuel Kant. In XVIII, during the Enlightenment era, colleagues, he said: "The law must never adjust to politics, however, politics must always adapt to law. In this sense, colleagues, I believe that any policy should kneel before the law and Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and legislation should not be introduced that limits the rights of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor. Here you go. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] The lines will be after the Minister's speech. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Repeating one untruth, not using another word, ten times, a hundred times doesn't make it true anymore. It has been repeatedly said that the restriction applies only to the performance of the duties of those persons in the educational system. It's written in the Law. Hence, the fact that you repeat these things continuously means either one of the two, or you don't want to know what the Law says, or vice versa, you want to remain the current situation where everyone can perform political and party activities in the educational system without being sanctioned. This!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u137	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Are you for a line, Mrs. Zaharieva? Please, you have the floor. You have 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u138	Dear Mrs. Atanasova, no, they will not withdraw it because this law is being used and will be used for repression. I also had a question for the Minister. Mr. Minister, as you self-inquired to use a snitch, because this was neither at school nor at..
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u139	The line is to Mrs. Atanasova, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u140	Yes, to Mrs. Atanasova is my line. Not with students. And you sat down to fire yourself and use it to fire the director of the RIO, did you self-sit yourself, Mr. Minister? Mrs. Atanasova, she won't do it. During an election campaign, in the courtyard of a high school in Pazardzhik, the vice president with the teachers in the yard of a high school, as you self-examined on Mr. Ananiev's doughnut, did you self-sit in the vice president's presidential campaign in the yard of a high school in Pazardzhik. Obviously, this law, Mrs. Atanasova, will not be withdrawn because it will be used for repression, to clear the inconvenient teachers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u141	The weather, Mrs. Zaharieva. Are there any other lines, coworkers? Mr. Stoinev, BSP is running out of time. Mr. Ananiev, come in for a line. [[(Nastimir Ananiev,]] Mr. Ananiev, if you want a line, I'll give you the floor for a line. As a personal explanation, I don't think you have grounds. Would you like a line? Mrs. Atanasova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u142	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, you will not get an answer, I am almost convinced of the questions you have asked, and I have not received an answer to the question I have asked about the participation of a rector, whether he is an autonomous educational institution, in the election campaign of the presidential couple. I haven't seen the minister of the service appointed by this particular candidate for president have taken a stand, even after the website of the school was used for political activity. So much for the theme of lies and truth. My fellow Members, I have very well-meaningly, quite well-intentioned to everyone I have quoted the Constitution, because I notice that you are not only making no attempts to comply with it, you are not even reading it. Not to mention that until recently you violated it quite brutally. We will be forced to refer to the Constitutional Court, as we have done several times in connection with your inadequate political decisions. And once again, let politics be subject to law if we want to live in the rule of law. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Here you are, Minister, you have the floor. [[(Replica from Dragomir Stoynev, BSP for Bulgaria.]] The procedure is after the Minister's speech. Mr. Minister, you have the floor. I give the Minister my word, Mr. Stoinev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u144	Thank you. I like to use logic when we discuss such important topics. Every example you give in the opposite direction, each example actually confirms the thesis that there should be regulation because this regulation will help us reduce these examples, regardless of who is a minister, as previously said. Let me say that we are discussing the Law on Preschool and School Education, and we are not discussing the Law on Higher Education. With regard to the particular case you are asking about, yes, I also reacted from the university site you are quoting, this message disappeared after two days. If I'd known he'd show up, I'd have reacted before then. This is what can be done in the current situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u145	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Reply of MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] You don't have time, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u146	This doesn't come in time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u147	Entering time, entering time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u148	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u149	It's also going through time, Mr. Stoinev. It's going through time, I explained. Guys, are there any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. Colleagues, after the vote on this bill, I will give half an hour's rest. Colleagues, I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education importing the Council of Ministers. Mr. Kalin Ivanov, who's online?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u151	Thanks. They voted 199 MPs in the House plus 1 online.. 200: for 122 plus 1 online.. 123 total, against 63, abstention 14. That's how the offer is accepted. To explain the negative vote, they want the word Mr. Gazhev, Cholakov. Mr. Hristo Gazhev for an explanation of a negative vote, you didn't speak. Mr. Cholakov, you had a statement. [[(Replication of the National Representative Radomir Cholakov:]] Here you go, Mr. Gadget. We'll sort out the rest of the people who want to.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u152	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against it because, more or less, with this bill, the rulers lied to us. We are being lied to that the goal is depoliticisation or pardoning the preservation of the political neutrality of the system. Because, if they were honest, they might have used the two options adopted so far, proven to be active for the last 30 years, namely depolitization in the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior. The texts there are very clear.............................................................................................. 182 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act, which shows how political neutrality is respected and how it is done exactly during the service, when performing their duties and not entirely. That is, if the Ministry really wanted to maintain political neutrality of secondary education and primary education, it would simply copy in one paragraph the texts of the Ministry of Interior Act or the Defence and Armed Forces Act as they have been applied for more than 30 years. It's obviously a different target. The aim, by the way, of the proposal, is buried in the last § 6 of our proposed bill, which has been very properly addressed by a reenactment, because at the moment political activity and political bias would be prohibited to all registered parties, starting from.Yes, Bulgaria, through the Social Security Committee,.................................... there is such a people......................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u153	It's not a party.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u154	I apologize, it is not a party, and precisely because it is not a party, it will be able to exercise its control over the system and that is precisely why it is not right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u155	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Tsoncho Ganev to explain the negative vote. And from GERB, because there are many willing colleagues, understand each other another MP: Mr. Ivanov wants, Mr. Cholakov and Mr. Mitov. Here you are, Mr. Ganev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u156	Mr. President, we, at the age of one, strongly do not support this bill being tabled. We won't support it most likely at second reading. However, here is the time to raise the question: what does Bulgarian education do with regard to the influence of foreign NGOs, some of which until very recently was the current minister? What do we do when the foundation, from which he was a member of staff, was a functionary of this foundation, had relations with the Ministry of Education and Science, currently has relationships, and what does he intend to do in this regard, because this is direct interference and conflict of interest? This obviously does not matter to him, but it does matter to Bulgarian education and to our society. That is why the Minister, instead of here to justify these things that are accepted, and to explain how good they are with the mistakes and with the influence of GERB no, they are a fact these things, but you do nothing differently! Moreover, as a former functionary of such a non-governmental organization, directly subordinate to the America for Bulgaria....................... another foundation, you should consider whether you have a clear conflict of interest to take attitude and rather leave the education system. [[(Applause from ARGUING, chanting by GERB: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u157	Mr. Ganev, that wasn't the subject of the bill. Mr. Cholakov, will you take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u158	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Minister! Education so far has always been considered a field of freedom, but obviously it will no longer be. The Minister said that a lie repeated many times will not be true and that is true. Yes, Mr. Minister, it won't be true! Like your lies, they won't be true! Read: The Head of Regional Education Management in the performance of its functions cannot perform political and party activities. An employee in the regional education management cannot engage in political and party activities. Additional provision. Party activity is any activity carried out on behalf of and/or on behalf of a political party registered under the terms of the Law on Political Parties or of a coalition and initiative committee registered for participation in the elections under conditions and under the Election Code. Colleagues, head of regional government cannot be a member of a political party from now on and cannot run for electoral posts, a regional education officer cannot be a member of a political party and cannot run for political positions. That's what it means. That's what it means! And it doesn't mean anything else! Mr. Minister, if this law is passed, I will personally introduce the same amendment to the Law on Higher Education and you must leave your professorship. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u159	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Colleagues, break from half an hour to 12.10 p.m. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u160	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. We move to point two of the National Assembly's Work Programme: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE YOUTH LAW. There are reports on the bill from both the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports "The Leading Commission and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management. Here you are, Mr. Chenchev, to present the Report of the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u161	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Youth Act No 47-102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021. At a regular meeting held on 17 February 2022, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Youth Act, No 47-102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Janitsa Trueva, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports at the moment, and Mr. Miroslav Tsekov, Chairman of the National Youth Forum. On behalf of the importers, the draft was presented by Mrs. Trueva, who explained in her statement that the proposed amendments and additions to the Youth Act are aimed at achieving compliance of the content of the National Strategy for Youth with established practices in strategic planning, as well as solving problems that have occurred in practice in implementing the existing texts of the Youth Act. The amendments, which Deputy Minister Trueva pointed out, are related to the extension of the National Strategy for Youth, which will ensure more full coverage of the needs and problems of young people and youth organizations. There is also a change in the deadlines for the preparation of the youth report from 1 to 3 years, as well as its content, which will allow effective measurement of the impact of the state policy on youth. The functions and responsibilities of the Minister of Youth and Sports shall be complemented by the creation of common methodological guidelines for supporting and coordinating the activities of the central and territorial authorities of the executive in the implementation of youth policy. The establishment as well as the activities of the Public Council on Youth Affairs and its role in the process of forming a state policy for youth is regulated. The Commission has the opinions of the National Youth Forum, Youth Association for Peace and Development in the Balkans, the city of Plovdiv, the Bulgarian Youth Red Cross and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, which support the proposed amendments and additions, but also the youth organizations propose to be included in the Bill and other proposals. In the subsequent discussion by the MPs Inna Ivanova and Tsveta Galunova were made proposals for the clarification of texts related to the content of the Youth Report, as well as its publication after approval by the National Assembly. People's Representative Ivan Chenchev expressed principle support for the Bill in view of the proposed amendments making the Law more up-to-date with regard to today's strategic efforts to address the challenges facing young people, as well as the legal regulation of the Public Council, which fills with content the participation of representatives of civil society in youth consultations. Mr. Chenchev stressed the need to organize a working group, which between first and second reading of the Bill to refine the texts. The importers expressed readiness to participate in a working group to refine some of the texts when considering the Second Voting Bill. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held with....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No 47-102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. We are moving on to the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Youth Act No 47-102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 12 January 2022, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Youth Act, No 47-102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Janitsa Trueva, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, and Mrs. Milena Andreeva, Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Trueva. The proposed amendments and additions aim at creating an effective legal framework in the area of youth and solving problems identified in the practice of implementing the existing texts of the Youth Act. The changes are in several basic guidelines. An amendment to the content of the National Strategy for Youth is proposed. The adoption of the proposed change will ensure completeness and completeness in the preparation of future strategic documents, which in turn will increase their effectiveness and enable a deeper assessment of the policies implemented. Greater clarity at the planning stage will increase the efficiency ratio in the executive bodies responsible for forming the state policy for youth. Next, changes are proposed with regard to the youth report. It is proposed that the National Assembly adopt the report for a period of three years and not as it has been every year. The aim of this proposal is to allow, in addition to a mechanical collection of statistics and a report on the annual youth plans, a deeper ongoing assessment of the impact of the implemented policies and the socio-economic status of young people in the country, as well as the reduction of unnecessary administrative burden on the authorities responsible for public youth policy at central and local level. Changes are also proposed in the functions of the Minister for Youth and Sports, enabling central and territorial authorities to be assisted with specific guidelines to facilitate the process of planning youth policies and to ensure the possibilities for the subsequent measurement of the impact achieved with regard to target groups. The targeted deepening of the interaction between the central and territorial authorities will enable a more dynamic implementation of the principle of decentralisation of youth policy in the implementation of youth policies from central to local level. Changes have been proposed to specify the composition of the National Youth Advisory Council, with note from Deputy Minister Trueva that in this part the bill should be refined in accordance with the current structure of the executive power. Changes related to the composition and functioning of the Public Council on Youth issues have also been proposed. The adoption of the proposed changes will create an opportunity to include a larger number of young people and civil organisations in the formation of the state youth policy. The Commission received an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities expressing support for the proposed changes. During the discussion, the MPs expressed their basic support for the proposed changes and asked questions regarding the criteria and standards for financing youth activities to be developed in order to provide the necessary financial resources for municipalities as well as questions concerning the activities of the Public Council on Youth Affairs, which the representatives of the Ministry of Youth and Sport responded to. Proposals were also made for the clarification of some of the texts in the proposed bill relating to the publication of the youth report, the deadlines for drawing up the reports of the annual plan for the implementation of the National Youth Strategy and the functions of the Minister for Youth and Sports, and the representatives of the Ministry expressed their agreement with the need to refine them when considering the Second Voting Bill. On the basis of the discussions and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, without the opposition and 1 abstention, proposed to the National Assembly a draft amendment and supplement to the Youth Act, No 47-102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u164	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. First there was another procedure from DPS and then I will give the floor to Victoria Vasileva, Tsveta Galunova and Krasen Kralev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. A moment ago, in the debates on the front point, I felt that the topic of politicalisation and depoliticisation was quite serious and we are all very sensitive on this subject. I have heard of appointments in the direction of politicalisation and interrogations in the direction of depoliticisation. However, I would be worried if these interrogations of teachers and directors we have heard about were by order and are back in the direction of politicisation, but are in the direction of another party that aims at another result. Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner in which you are directed. You are the first among equals and you are the President of this National Assembly, and you should treat all MPs equally justly to those who are against the opposition and those who are to the ruling majority. However, you demonstrate another such attitude. I'll tell you what I mean. I had two questions introduced to Minister Rashkov, and you felt that they did not meet the requirements of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly and returned them. Now I have two questions again, they are very specific. Mr. President, last Friday we should have had the opportunity to hear the answers to these questions, but you cancelled the meeting. Yesterday, too, we should have had the opportunity to hear the answers to these questions, and we went home to our districts and people are expecting questions from us, and we don't have them yet. Yesterday's agenda was so designed that there was no chance to hear from Minister Rashkov again. And now my question to you is: will the agenda and the order of Mr. Rashkov be so written on Friday that we will not be able to hear the Minister's answers again? Mr. President, if you keep this up, it means that you are not my chairman, because you do not have the same attitude that you have to the MPs of the ruling majority, because they receive the answers to their questions and return to their places and obviously respond, and we do not have such an opportunity. You're the first among equals, but one of those equals is me. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u166	I get it, of course. The agenda in parliamentary control is not exactly an agenda, but is an arrangement of ministers how they will answer the questions, is not determined by the President, is determined by the Rules, and also by the arrangement in the President's Decree for the appointment of the government, and then the regular ministers are Rotted. So it's not up to me when Minister Rashkov's turn comes, so to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u167	When will Minister Rashkov's turn come?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u168	Excuse me? When the prime ministers pass, it will be his turn. Those who have responded pass back into rotation and so on. Victoria Vasileva is for procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In connection with the discussions on this bill, I am making a procedural proposal in the Chamber to allow the Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Vladimir Harizanov to be admitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u170	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal for admission to the House of Deputy Minister Mr. Harizanov. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u172	They voted 134 MPs in the House plus 1 online. 135 total: 130 plus 1 online.. 131 total, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite Mr. Harizanov into the hall. Thank you. I give the floor to Tsveta Galunova for a statement, then it is written Krasen Kralev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We at ARCHIVE have two observations on this bill, the first being related to art. 5, para. 1, where the report of presenting itself per year shifts to be presented every three years, which is a report that reflects the main trends in the socio-economic situation of young people. In this version it is set to be within one year, now the proposal is to be made within three years. Our proposal is to be within two years, because the National Assembly has a mandate for four years and thus the MPs will be able to exercise control over the work of the Ministry twice and, at the same time, the Ministry will have more time to prepare the report itself. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u174	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u175	That's one offer we have. We believe that the Ministry employs about 200 people and could optimize the working process so that the exercise of control on our part is adequate. The second proposal, which we want to focus on, is related to what value system and what qualities we want to raise in young Bulgarians, with what attitude and motivation they will one day participate as adult citizens in the socio-economic life of Bulgaria. The focus here is on the main thematic areas on which the content of the report will be determined. These are education, employment, health and well-being, participation and youth spaces, youth organisations, inclusion, equality and inclusion of young people from small towns, but here there is, notice, belonging to the European Union. We consider it absurd to belong to the European Union and to lack in the main thematic activities education in patriotic and patriotic spirit, and that is why our proposal is to inspire education in belonging to the European Union. It is important to accept this supplement because of the future of Bulgaria, all the more so according to art. 9, p. 5 opportunities are given to the Minister of Youth and Sports to adopt standards for public support for youth activities. We believe that one of these standards must necessarily be linked to patriotic activities and initiatives. When I focused on these two issues on the Commission, the representatives of the Council of Ministers accepted them as appropriate for having the right and promised to reconsider them. That is why I abstained from voting, and therefore we will now abstain from voting, but if these remarks are not corrected by second reading and basically inclusion of education in a patriotic and patriotic spirit, then at second reading we will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. Replices to Tsveta Galunova? Ivan Chenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Galunova, without any courtesy, I say to you that this is how we should treat the problems of youth and every single ZID or whole law, and I admire your serious concern. I assure you, and in the report I stressed that a working group will be established, the proposals will be taken into account. I consider the subject extremely important. Other proposals will be taken into account, which will come from the National Youth Forum and other organisations that have expressed such intention, of course, the Minister of Youth and Sports and fellow Members of the National Youth Forum. I think we're going to fine-tune the texts as necessary. With regard to your two observations, the Annual Youth Report is a combination of the summary of the measures implemented to develop and implement youth policies. The data are from the National Statistical Institute, the National Statistical Institute and other national and international studies. The purpose of the report is to show the specifics of this target group problems, realities, lifestyles of young people as well as their attitudes. The summation of data from different sources that have their own time periods requires a longer period of work, if we want, of course, the results to be effective and the conclusions to be real. In addition, the issue is also at stake in the study, following the main topics and priorities of the National Strategy for Youth, which has a 10-year period. The change from a one-year period to a three-year period of preparation of the report makes it possible to distinguish short-term, medium-term and long-term political relations with regard to youth policies for a more real and more effective impact assessment. When we talk about strategic documents, we cannot be talking about compliance with a single parliamentary mandate at all. And your second remark. By.......the importer hardly meant our physical belongings, but I assure you again that in the working group your proposal will be taken into account because we really want these texts to be refined. And just as one conclusion. You are right, Mrs. Galunova, that the patriotic spirit has been in deficit in our society lately, but you know that its upbringing begins in both the family and the school, so thank you for these remarks. Like I said, we'll take them into consideration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Second line to Tsveta Galunova? I won't. For the doppelganger? Okay. Krasen Kralev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed Amendment and Supplement to the Youth Act thus covers changes concerning basic deadlines and does not mainly concern significant reform or improvement in the sector. The main benefit of this CID will be directed to the administration of the Ministry of Youth and Sports in the preparation of the annual report on youth, the plan and the report on the implementation of the National Strategy for Youth. We are essentially not opposed to the proposed changes, but we would like to note some specific things on the text that we hope will be taken into account so as to avoid the current ambiguities in some of the points. In this regard, I would like to point out that I have also come to know the opinions of NGOs and I believe that they would improve the Law, but there is also a need to correct the texts. Of course, we will make proposals for editing some of the texts of the Law between first and second readings, so that they can be refined and become clearer and more accurate. For example, in art. 4, para. 5, t. 5 we will propose to supplement the text with the words......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 4 as regards the content of the annual youth report, we propose in this section. 9 to add and digitalize, given the importance of digital technologies nowadays and their impact on young people. The text will be read as follows: Information and digitalization. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 is created a new t. 5: "Accepts standards for public support, youth activities', which is extremely unclear. If quality standards for the provision of youth services in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria are taken into account, which were established under the project of the Ministry of Education financed by OPHRD, a new member should be set up to describe the standards and their objectives, the scope of implementation and the expected results. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 2 a list of the composition of the National Advisory Council shall be provided. We believe that the discharge of each office is inoperable, as this will impose changes in the Law in any change of the structure of the Council of Ministers. It would be more reticent to have the Council's composition in relation to the needs of young people and to be determined on a proposal from the Minister of Youth and Sports. Finally, I would like to remind you of the importance of youth policy. Unfortunately, it has been paused since April 2021, which is problematic for the whole sector. I hope that within a short period of time we will see concrete initiatives by the executive and that we do not continue to monitor the neglect of the topic that we have seen over the past 10 months. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u180	Thank you, Mr. Kralev. Are there any lines to Krasen Kralev? I won't. For your speech, Alexander Alexandrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, as well as my fellow Members, support these additions and amendments to the Youth and Sports Act. We believe that they are important, above all, from the point of view of creating better coordination and planning in relation to the whole complex of policies regarding youth, which are laid down in art. 18. In addition to that, I am impressed in art. This most important body, with regard to the National Advisory Council, which has been established and which includes deputy ministers from almost all ministries, is absent as a member of the Advisory Council Deputy Minister of Defence. I think that the contact points between the Bulgarian Army, especially with regard to several directions, and all these policies, which are well described in the Law, both at national and regional level, and at municipal level, there is quite a place such as a field of action and contact points. For example, sports, in army sports, are only young people. There is not only a huge base, but also a specific one, creates specific skills that I will not list here, but these are many battles, marines, different special skills that are now particularly relevant and are constantly developing in the Special Forces of the Bulgarian Army. And secondly, questions related to.. I do not want to say the education here, the goals are different, but a closer approach to the abilities of the Bulgarian Army regarding the huge number of cultural institutes, schools. For example, the National Military and Historic Museum, Theatre of the Bulgarian Army, the Central Military Club. There are many different types of activities there, the Audio Visual Centre, schools of district, more than 20 clubs of the Bulgarian Army and exactly in this specific niche, in which one of the objectives is professional guidance, the assistance of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and a number of related things with national programs................................................................ I will agree with my proposal to include the Deputy Minister of Defence and to be a member of the National Council for Youth and Sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u182	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Replices to Alexander Alexandrov? I can't see. The next speech is from Inna Ivanova. Is there anyone else to talk about? I'm recording Ivan Chenchev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I believe that the problems of youth are an integral part of our society and even in the current tense international environment. The aim of policies aimed at youth is to provide young people with opportunities and contribute to their responsible and active participation in society. This Youth Act was adopted in 2012 in implementation of the National Youth Strategy from 2010 to 2020 and following an assessment of its impact on public discussion, it is necessary to improve. The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Youth Act aims to create an effective legal framework in the field of youth and to resolve problems that have been identified in the practice of implementing the Youth Act over the past 10 years. Expanding the scope of the National Youth Strategy and supplementing the functions and responsibilities of the Minister for Youth and Sports by developing an instrument supporting coordination between central and territorial authorities for more efficient planning of future state youth policy. We have improved the functions of the Youth Act, coordination of youth policies in various areas through mechanisms for cooperation between state authorities and direct dialogue with young people. This cooperation is currently being carried out through the National Youth Advisory Council. In the Law amending and supplementing the Youth Act provides for the explicit legislative existence of the Public Council on Youth Affairs. Currently, the Public Council on Issues exists by order of the Minister of Youth and Sports and consists of non-governmental organisations from the youth sector supporting the dialogue and participation of young people in forming policies for them. In this context, I believe that we need to support the Law and we will support it on behalf of the "We are continuing the Change" because a change is needed in order to improve the mechanisms for interaction with young people at local, national and intergovernmental level. We expect a positive effect from the changes introduced in the implementation and coordination of youth policies. [[(Private applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Ivanova. Are there any lines to Inna Ivanova? I won't. For speech spoke Ivan Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u185	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will now tell you the purpose that pursues this bill, the reasons, of course, for the proposed change, so that we can summarize. I'm going to link this thing to my statement. Before that, I would like to offer my apologies to Mr. Radomir Cholakov because earlier in the day in the meeting I reacted a little more violently when he from this platform said that there is nothing so important to discuss on this agenda, and his political power has other proposals. Well, youth policy is something very important, extremely important for Bulgaria and I therefore reacted more violently. The objective pursued by this bill, in short, is to synchronise the national youth policy with standards in European policy, as the main objective is to achieve compliance between the legally established content of the National Youth Strategy with established practices in strategic planning. The Bill also aims to create a more effective legal framework in the area of youth policy and to address problems that have arisen in practice when implementing the existing texts of the Youth Act. Motives. The Youth Act has not been substantially amended since its adoption in 2012. A number of documents analysing the state of youth policy in the country note the need to update the regulations; there is a limited opportunity for a deeper measurement of the trends in the situation of young people and the impact of the youth policy applied on them; a need to improve coordination in the decentralisation of public youth policy; a need to increase the effectiveness of cooperation mechanisms between institutions; a need to increase the sustainability of the mechanisms for consultation and communication with civil society representatives and young people. In this context, the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Youth Act has also been drawn up. We will support the amendments and additions to the Youth Act at first reading, as well as in the Commission, because there are proposals that are meaningful and really solve problems related to the implementation of the existing texts. For example, the regulation of the Public Council, which contains the participation of civil society representatives in youth consultations. This is an official mechanism for interaction with youth NGOs. The same can be said of the proposed amendment relating to the preparation and adoption of the youth report on a three-year basis, and not annually, as so far. Let's remember, colleagues, that according to art. 5 of the current law, the National Assembly approved the Annual Youth Report by 30 April of each year. For the purposes of the report, it is intended to collect and aggregate a large volume of information from numerous central and territorial authorities. A major part of the youth report shall be drawn up on the basis of a sociological survey and statistics, the final results of which of the previous year come out after April. In practice, it turns out that a report is submitted for the previous year and the data from the study is one year older than the previous year. After all, the analysis of changes in the socio-economic situation of young people is not relevant. In this sense, the extension of the deadline is reasonable in view of a deeper analysis of the impact of the public policy on youth, not merely quoting old statistics. And here I'll give you a piece of an opinion. I told you that the opinions support this law of amendment and supplement, but I will give you an opinion at the National Youth Forum. The National Youth Forum confirms the importance of synchronising national youth policy with European policy standards. It fully approves the proposed amendments to the Youth Act, especially supporting the proposal for regulation of the existence of the Youth Public Council in the legal framework. " However, the opinion notes that a number of the discussed changes, namely youth work, youth organisation, include engagement, connection, empowerment, youth spaces, so that, colleagues, we have a lot to work on on on our proposals between first and second reading and I believe that this working group will do just that and we will refine the texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Is there a line to Ivan Chenchev? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Youth Act, inc. No 47-102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021. The first vote of the Bill. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u188	Thank you. They voted 162 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. 163 total: 133 in the Chamber and 1 online.. 134 total, not against, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Chenchev, for procedure. [[Reply.]] And Mrs. Anastasova for procedure as well. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u189	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote on an increase in the deadline for a proposal between first and second reading with three weeks of the Youth Act with a view to the creation of the working group as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u190	An increase of three weeks to a total of four. Is that right, Mr. Chenchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u192	Thank you. I put to the vote Mr. Chenchev's procedural proposal to extend the deadline for a proposal between first and second readings. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u194	Thank you. They voted 161 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. in total 162: for 160 in the Chamber and 1 online... a total of 161, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, my procedure is similar. In relation to the Law on amendment and supplement of the Law on pre-school and school education adopted at first reading, I propose on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be extended the period for written proposals between first and second readings by seven days, that is, 14 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. We will vote on Irena Anastasova's proposal for proposals between the first and second reading of the Preschool and School Education Act to be extended by seven days. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u198	Thank you. They voted 161 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. 162 total: 161 in the Chamber and 1 online.. 162 total, no objection and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next point of the program, which is: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. An application was made by Ventsislav Ivanov Petkov, Member of the National Assembly from the Fifteenth Election Region of Pleven, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria resigns as the MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. He wishes to suspend his credentials as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision of the National Assembly. A work project has been prepared that I will read to you: Project! DECISION terminating the powers of the people's representations The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the mandate of Ventsislav Ivanov Petkov as MP from the Fifteenth Election Region I open the discussion on the presented draft decision. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. We are voting on the draft decision to terminate the mandates of Ventsislav Petkov, Member of the National Assembly of the Fifteenth Election Region of Plevenski. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u200	Thank you. They voted 146 MPs in the House and 1 online.. in total 147: for 144 in the House and 1 online.. 145 MPs in total, against 2 abstentions. The motion is accepted. We're going to point four of the program. FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL PROCEEDING CODEX. There has been a report from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Please, Mr. Mateev, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u201	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs At its meeting held on 16 February 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 47-154-01-10, submitted by Elena Tsoneva Guncheva and a group of MPs on 23 December 2021. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Borislav Ganchev from the Ministry of Justice; Deputy Minister from the Supreme Lawyers Council; Mrs. Valya Gigova from the Deputy President; Mr. Petar Slavov from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria; Mrs. Silvia Georgieva from the Executive Director; and Mrs. Desislava Stoykova from the Association of Banks in Bulgaria; Mrs. Eleonora Hristoforova from the Association of Banks in Bulgaria. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by the National Representative Petar Petrov, who pointed out that it proposed changes in the procedures in the order procedure relating to the service of the communications and notification of the debtors of the initiated proceedings against them and the possibility of organising their protection, as well as the written documents under art. 417 t. 2 et c. 10 of the PDK, which creates a risk to civil turnover, but which the court recognises as fit evidence in establishing the merits of the creditor's claim. The bill provides for the appointment of a special representative of the assisting party in the proceedings and of the debtor in the proceedings. It is also envisaged to remove the possibility of issuing an order for immediate execution on the basis of a document or an extract from the books of a public office, a municipality or a bank, recording an order, a bill and equivalent securities of an order. On the bill were received negative written opinions from the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court of Cassation of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Supreme Council of Law, the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Association of Banks in Bulgaria. The opinion of the Ministry of Justice states that the elimination of the possibilities for establishing claims in simplified legal proceedings under a common internal market of the European Union may have a negative impact on the maintenance and development of the area of freedom, security and justice. The opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation states that the appointment of a special representative of an assisting party in a court of law and of a debtor in the service of an order for enforcement would result in a delay and an increase in the process, focusing on the inapplicability of the Order of Art. 47, para. 6 of the GPC for the supporting party in view of its specific situation, as well as the amendments adopted in 2019 providing better protection to the debtor in the order. It is noted that the envisaged amendment in art. 417 of the GPC contradicts the overall concept of the order procedure, which established the privilege of relieved recovery of the claims of banks, state institutions and municipalities, as well as the claims on the records of an order, mentoring and equivalent securities of an order, concluding that the changes adopted in 2019 correspond to the criteria laid down in the case of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The opinion of the Supreme Council of Law states that the proposal to appoint a special representative of an assisting party would limit the applicant's access to a court. It is noted that the appointment of a special representative of the debtor in service of an enforcement order would burden the debtor with additional costs as a final result, noting that the submitted proposal is unnecessary given the court's obligation to give instructions for the existence of the creditor's claim when the debtor is not duly informed. It focuses on the proposal to remove the possibility for banks to obtain an order for immediate execution on the basis of documents and extracts from their books, indicating that the envisaged change will result in an increase in the lending and recovery process. The opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria states that the existing regime of the claims of the municipalities is consistent with their functions in the public interest and the regulation of public relations. The opinions of the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors and the Association of Banks in Bulgaria state that the proposed changes will not effectively protect the rights of debtors, but will lead to a burden on the courts and to an expensive production. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. In the course of the public discussion Deputy Minister Borislav Ganchev pointed out that the current provisions of art. 422 and 415 The PDC shall ensure the rights of the debtor, including by appointment of a special representative, in cases where he is not found at the address, in which case proceedings for the establishment of the claim shall be initiated. Mr. Ganchev noted that the Ministry of Justice does not support the submitted bill. The representative of the Supreme Council of Advocates Valya Gigova pointed out that the existing provision of art. 415 The PDC refers to conscientious debtors who do not live at that address and do not really know about the proceedings against them and added that the appointment of a special representative of the debtor in the ordering proceedings will again lead to a claim. Mrs. Gigova noted that the proposal made concerning the special representative of the third parties is particularly dangerous, since all costs initially paid by the applicant may be a burden on the debtor if he loses the claim process. Lawyer Gigova pointed out that the proposed changes to art. 417 will affect not only individuals but also traders and will lead to an appreciation of the loans. The representative of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Silvia Georgieva pointed out that the order procedure under art. 417 t. 2 is applied to rental contracts in small municipalities, thus collecting the sums due from the unscrupulous tenants and calling for greater sustainability and predictability of the legislation. The representative of the Association of Banks in Bulgaria Mrs. Eleonora Christoforova expressed her disagreement with the submitted proposals regarding the appointment of a special representative of the debtor in the order proceedings in view of the cost of production, as well as the elimination of the possibility of issuing an order for immediate execution on the basis of an extract of bank books, referring to the provisions in force, which oblige all relevant documents, contracts and applications, including the general terms and conditions of the bank. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Petar Kyosev, Andrey Mihailov, Atanas Slavov, Tsvetan Enchev, Branimir Balachev, Krum Zarkov and Petar Petrov. People's representative Petar Kosev said that from "We continue the Change" will not support the proposed bill, pointing out that he shares the arguments put forward by Deputy Minister Borislav Ganchev and lawyer Valya Gigova. He recalled a fundamental principle in law that no one can draw rights from his own unlawful conduct and added that non-compliance with the obligation to declare within the time limit of an up-to-date address is bound by a penalty, and inaction is considered to be unlawful conduct. He expressed his disagreement with the proposal to appoint a special representative of the assisting party in the proceedings and of the debtor in the procedure of order, as well as with the proposed annulment of art. 417 t. 2 and 10 of the GPC, recalling that any record of an order should be accompanied by the relevant documents proving the relationship. People's representative Andrey Mihailov said that the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" will not support the proposed bill, noting that it will not ease the situation of the debtor, but the latter will be charged with more costs. Mr. Mihailov also objected to the cancellation of art. 417 t. 10 of the GPC, noting that the recording of an order no longer poses a threat to the debtor to impose such a legislative change. People's Representative Atanas Slavov said that "Democratic Bulgaria" will not support the Bill and noted that it is necessary to periodically review such procedures in order to find the balance between public interest, the interest of the debtor, the protection of citizens' rights and private interest. He pointed out that the proposed changes would rather aggravate the situation of the debtor. People's representative Tsvetan Enchev said that the MPs of the National Assembly will not support the proposed bill by objecting to the abolition of the possibility of a relieved recovery of municipal claims under the order of the order. People's representative Branimir Balachev said his support for some of the submitted proposals, because the ordering procedure has created a number of problems. It focuses on the need to establish guarantees that the debtor will be duly informed or represented by a competent person. Mr. Balachev pointed out that it is necessary to preserve the possibility of a relaxed recovery of claims of state institutions and municipalities in the light of public control and the presence of an official to ensure the authenticity of the documents. He agreed to drop the possibility of issuing an order for immediate execution on the basis of bank books and on the basis of a record of an order, given the possibility of presenting non-true ones. People's representative Krum Zarkov pointed out that the proposal to introduce the figure of the special representative for the supporting party in the lawsuit and for the debtor in the order may be harmful to the person the bill aims to protect. People's representative Petar Petrov noted that the ordering procedure has brought many privileges to creditors, but it is necessary to provide protection for each debtor, regardless of his good faith. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with 2 votes in favour, 7 votes in opposition and 6 votes in abstention, proposed that the National Assembly should not adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Civil Procedure Code, No 47-154-01-10, submitted by Elena Tsoneva Guncheva and a group of MPs on 23 December 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u202	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. I'm opening the discussion on the bill. Elena Guncheva for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I ask you to support the Bill because it concerns some of the most controversial proceedings in today's legislation. Under the mask to save the costs of debtors, many people are condemned without having the right to defend themselves. I would accept the opinion of private contractors and banks if it did not, in fact, appear that when the debtor found out that he was convicted, he already had bank accounts secured, secured salaries, pensions and prohibited property. It is much more difficult to protect when you are completely restricted, including being able to seek legal help in this case. Because some legal proceedings in which the debtor can prove that he has not been regularly served with the message that he does not owe, continue for years, and during all this time he is deprived of the right to dispose of his assets. It's very difficult to protect debtors who have already been convicted. I consider it a great arrogance that those who are dishonest and have failed to fulfil an administrative obligation to change their permanent address must suffer such damage. I'm just gonna make an analogy. How come a private bailiff wasn't in a situation where he couldn't find the debtor? Somehow the court can't find him. Private court executives always and in any case manage to find him. There are many abuses of these order procedures, especially from the banks, and I will include the municipalities here. The cases in which public obligations are issued in respect of a declaration of amounts not due are mass. In my practice, I will also tell you that protection in such executive cases and similar proceedings in court last a long time. People are wasting time, losing money. At the same time, messages are sent to their employers, to their neighbours and they are not only humiliated in any way, but also not entitled to dispose of their assets. In this way, privileges are granted to unscrupulous creditors. Because I can't accept that banks can't afford a lawsuit. Yes, the debtor may finally be able to fully pay the costs that will be higher, but he will also have the full right to defend himself in a single claim process without being subject to precautionary measures or, at least, if imposed, the bank will have to prove with all written evidence or collateral that this obligation is really due. Massive are the cases when banks abuse such rights. Massally are cases where debtors are convicted without even knowing that they are convicted and learn from their employer that they can no longer have the full amount of their salary. This is something that in today's crisis is unacceptable. Do you know how many debtors in Bulgaria? Do you know what money is collected by private court contractors about 3 billion a year, according to recent reports? No wonder the House of Private Judicial Contractors and Banks is against this bill. But I'm asking you to think about people as well. Because now that they're wondering how to pay their electricity, how to pay their bills and how to keep their money for food, at this very moment we shouldn't let them go without remuneration, without property, without even knowing they're convicted. I would just like to add that between first and second readings for the assisting party we are going to make an amendment, as this will really make the process very difficult. So in that sense, there will be changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. A line from Petar Kyosev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Guncheva, because you speak by order, but you didn't know the difference between art. Article 410 417. All this time you were talking about immediate execution when the debtors were already in debt and so on. Most amendments to the Bill are more or less directed under art. 410 and possible protection of the debtor in this phase. I'd like to explain to the non-jurists what the defense is in practice when a warrant has been issued. The caselaw is absolutely clear and it is the same in this direction that, in fact, one word, I object to transferring the burden to the creditor and for this simple reason this stops the execution itself. 417, I'm talking about art. 410. You have given an example of the opinion of private court contractors, but let me also mention the opinion of the Supreme Council of Laws, which largely represents the people who would also benefit from this change. For one word, I object or dispute, which again transfers the ball to the creditor, in fact, from there on he is obliged to file a claim, and then we pass on to all the proceedings and in no way save anything to the debtor, it can cost him subsequently some 150, 300 and more leva expenses according to what the lawyer asked for in this form of protection. It is important to mention, because we are constantly commenting on the problem of service of messages, unintentioned debtors at their addresses and so on, the specifically ordered answer to your question and problem is in practice in the same law that you want to amend to the GPC. Article 415 expressly states that, in practice, where the debtor is not notified in person, that is to say he is informed by glue, then the court is obliged to re-sign the creditor to file a claim, and there the rules for the special representative shall apply from day one until the end of the proceedings. So we're putting in a defense here at a preliminary stage of the entire claim. I'm talking specifically in the hypothesis in which we have a service by glue. You said you should remove a few misunderstandings, but possibly exactly 415, which I just mentioned, should also be in line with your proposal, because if the court eventually turns out to have given the debtor the notification by sticking, there is a paradox. He will tell the creditor to file a claim and to initiate an action or to appoint a special representative, returning to the main thesis that, at this stage, the caselaw is clear and clear that in no way should an objection be justified and the burden of proof always lies with the creditor. I'm glad you're going to retire to a third party aide, it's clear there, thank you for that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u206	The weather, Mr. Kyosev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u207	I'm finishing the line. We will not support your proposal for anything else. The debtor will eventually suffer because his debt will increase along with the costs in this preliminary proceedings. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u208	Thank you. Second line to Elena Guncheva? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u209	Honourable colleague, most changes concern precisely the immediate implementation and art. 417 as regards the ordering procedure under art. This is only about a special representative. I believe that the practice has shown that art. 415 also does not work well and there is also a practice that affects debtors' rights. That is why I believe that the proposal is appropriate.. in this way will protect their rights and the whole production will develop in a common civil process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. To speak, Ivan Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u211	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleague Guncheva, I address you as you are referred to as an importer of the Bill. I am aware that this bill aims to regulate problems that arise with regard to the recovery of outstanding claims, but in reality what you are proposing as a bill offers the full elimination of the use of an institute of a certain range of individuals such as banks and public organisations, and the state and municipalities cannot benefit from such proceedings. When we comment on the Order of Art. 417, which you are referring to, in reality, to some preemptive claims that are not supposedly contested. That is to say, they are regarded as established by presumption and this is an issue by which the legislator decides the speed of such proceedings. It should also be borne in mind that banks are institutions involved in occupation lending. In other words, there is a need for a rapid recovery of capital for the purpose of additional lending and so on. And with regard to municipalities and the state, these are public funds which should be collected in due time and where they are not contested and are indisputable, this is precisely the easier and cheaper way to do so. It should be borne in mind that even in the order procedure under art. 417 the legislator and with the latest amendments from 2019, if I am not mistaken, protects and additionally the debtor, by enabling both to actually appeal orders to issue such an order and through an objection, as the colleague mentioned, to actually shift the burden. In other words, this bill sounds good to the ears of a certain kind of voters and electorate, but it will ultimately be directed directly against these people, as it will increase the weight of a process many times. Let us not forget that when we talk about costing the process, about additional costs that are in the civil proceedings, which are in the enforcement proceedings, if the corresponding amount is not due and this is proved in the court, all these costs go to the burden of the party who lost the case, and this is the creditor and not the debtor. And whether the debtor himself has the opportunity to actually make these costs "Bulgarian legislation" and the Bulgarian barrister has ultimately provided for a order in which free legal assistance can be granted to persons who cannot afford such legal assistance. That is, in fact, none of the arguments that have been mentioned are relevant and are not adequate at this time in order to exclude the majority of the addressees of the Order of Art. 417. For this reason, we from "Democratic Bulgaria" will not support this bill, and we really believe that most of the problems that you have highlighted are in relation to the recovery of the claims themselves in the case of decisions already in force and so on, and not actually the problem of the production itself under art. 417. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u212	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. A line from Elena Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u213	My fellow Member, I am very glad that you are so concerned and that the banks will quickly collect their money. It is evident that the banks have a serious lobby in the National Assembly. I'll just add something else to the free legal aid if someone has secured accounts and property, but they're enough, there's no way he can use free legal assistance. You should recall these provisions. There is also no opinion on this bill by debtors' organisations and those who have organised themselves against the conduct of banks. I will also point out that these claims are not indisputable. Yes, the bank is supposed to be conscientious, but the practice shows that most of the time it isn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Is there another line to Ivan Dimitrov? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u215	Dear Mrs. Guncheva, you are talking about abuse and dishonest creditors. This does not mean that we have to remove the Institute in respect of all creditors. If a person controls his motor vehicle after using alcohol, it does not mean that we have to deprive all drivers of the ability to drive. Do you understand? There is a Association of Banks, there is an appropriate organization of private judicial contractors if you think that any of them do not do their job or abuse, you can refer to the relevant organizations. It is foreseen that you know very well, I suppose, since you mentioned from your practice the possibility of stopping the implementation. The execution can be stopped in one order by art. 419 may be suspended in another order after the case has been brought. So there are a number of defences that ultimately, yes, really create a problem, as lawsuits need to be conducted, but I repeat, the burden on illegal lawsuits and illegal claims by creditors is actually with the creditor himself, as the creditor will pay for everything. And if a person suffers losses from not being able to use his property and bank accounts, it is also provided for an order to compensate for all the damage that has been caused to the person and the state including. So it's all about the good work of good lawyers, without which this country, this system cannot exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u216	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any other speeches? Peter Petrov. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u217	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A lot of untruths have been said here, one of which is that the proposed changes to this bill would end a rapid proceedings on undisputed demands. Firstly, neither the proceedings are fast nor the demands are indisputable in view that there is an explicit provision in the Law for the submission of objections on which we have focused today with these legal changes. I cannot agree with the reasons that there was legal protection under art. 415 as well as under art. 422. First of all, as my colleague Guncheva said, the rule of al. 2 of art. 415, unfortunately, it does not apply. It creates one door in the field and does not give adequate protection to the debtor. Don't do it any more and the intended opportunity for a claim under art. 422, because it says that the lawsuit doesn't stop the execution. That is, when the debtor is already in foreclosure accounts, foreclosure property, then you have yet to look for him to appoint a special representative for us is a little late. That is why we have provided for a legal possibility for the special representative to protect only persons who cannot be found at their address, we are talking about natural or legal persons, to be possible and to apply in cases where they could not be found for the service of the enforcement order. I especially want to say about my colleague Kyosev. Colleague Kosev, we create, first of all, a legal opportunity for the appointed special representative to object to it, he may not use it, he may still recognise the claim in order to protect the debtor from even more costs. Again, a procedural opportunity. So it is not direct to his service of objection that he make a direct objection. He can recognize the demand.. this is one difference that we offer. The next option we offer and please take it into account when a special representative of the debtor is appointed in the order is that there is already a proper address of the procedural representative of the debtor to whom the claim can be subsequently served. That's the difference we make with our proposal. There is already one address, this will be the address of his procedural representative, who has objected, to which the creditor can now duly submit his subsequent action for initiating proceedings. Because these changes will protect debtors, creating an opportunity for them to challenge a claim which, once again, I say, is in no way despised that it is indisputable, as said by my colleague from "Democratic Bulgaria", I believe that we should support this bill, and, of course, with regard to the assisting countries, we will also make the relevant proposals. Finally, I was surprised by the opinion of the Supreme Council of Law, as I assume that this institution is expected to protect debtors and to create prerequisites for the exercise of their procedural protection precisely in this proceedings, which, as is evident from the discussions in the Legal Committee, has not in any case been neither indisputable, as some MP colleagues have expressed, nor has it been subject to consensus on its application in the last few years. The 2019 amendments, which have taken place, have had a reason to adopt these amendments. So I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u218	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. And the colleague from "Democratic Bulgaria." Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u219	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleague Petrov, I sincerely admire you for the kind of fire with which you generally defend your own. I will just tell you that there is no legal possibility in which the special representative to recognise an action. You can't admit a claim to a person you haven't seen, you don't know, you don't know where it is because it can't be found. If you do this, you will become a client of the Disciplinary Court of the respective Bar Association. I guarantee that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u220	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Is there another line? I won't. Mr. Petrov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u221	Colleague Dimitrov, thanks for the clarification. However, let me remind you of what I just said that the appointment of the special representative creates a proper address for it to be notified and against which to address a claim as a representative of the debtor subsequently in regular action. We create such an opportunity, and whether he will admit or not, this is already the result of his personal judgment, according to the undisputed written evidence presented in your opinion, presented by presumption in the context of the procedure of order, ergo subsequently in the ordinary lawsuit, where he is already there, as he will obviously be appointed and there to represent the debtor, may accordingly admit the claim. So, please, let's be a little more correct with the debtors looking at us right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u222	I think that in order to acknowledge the claim you need an explicit power of attorney from the country, however, you can't do it alone... [[Noise and lines.]] Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm putting an end to the discussion on the bill. Let's move on to the vote. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, Ic. No 47-154-01-10, submitted by Elena Guncheva and a group of MPs on 23 December 2021. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u223	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u224	They voted 133 people's views in the Chamber, plus 1 online.. 134 total: 15 against 82 MPs in the House, plus 1 online.. 83, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. We are also running out of this item on the agenda. We're going to the fifth point: ANNUAL COMMISSION REPORT ON REGULLATION OF 2020 COMMUNICATIONS Here you go, Mr. Gutsanov. A Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the Annual Report has been received. You have the floor, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u225	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First, I propose on the grounds of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be allowed in the Chamber Mr. Dimitrov, President of the Communications Regulation Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u226	Thank you. Honourable Members, please vote on the proposal for admission to this House. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u228	Thank you. They voted 130 MPs in the House, plus 1 online.. 131 total: for 130 MPs in the House, plus 1 online.. 131, against and abstention. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the Chair of the Communications Regulation Commission to the Chamber. Please, Mr. Gutsanov, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2020, No 120 "00 "4, submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission on 29 June 2021'. The Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2020, No 120-00-4, submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission on 29 June 2021, was reviewed at a meeting of the Committee on Transport and Communications on 20 January 2022. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivan Dimitrov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission (CRC), Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov, Director of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and representatives of industry organizations in the field of electronic communications. The annual report was presented by Mr. Ivan Dimitrov. The annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission drawn up on the basis of art. 38, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications, provides systematic information on services, markets and competition in the sector in 2020, trends and prospects of development, as well as a review of the activities of the Regulator. In his exhibition Mr. Dimitrov outlined the main trends in the development of the electronic communications market in the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020. According to data from the CRC register as of 31 December 2020, a total of 1126 companies have registered their intention to carry out public electronic communications activities and in one year their number has increased by 0.4%. In the performance of art. 5 of the General requirements for the implementation of public electronic communications received information from a total of 1001 enterprises. In 2020, 861 enterprises were active, with growth in their number compared to the previous year being 1.3%. In 2020, the total volume of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria amounted to 2,861 billion. BGN, as for the third year in a row continues its upward trend "The reported growth is 6.7% compared to 2019. The total volume of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria and in 2020 is mainly determined by the revenues from voice services and data transmission services and/or Internet access. For the first year, revenue from data transfer services and/or internet access exceeds voice service revenue and takes a leading position by 41,8%. In 2020, the share of voice telephone revenue in the total volume of the public electronic communications market continued to decrease, amounting to 40.2%. During the accounting year the CRC has actively worked to optimize the legislation in the field of information and communication technologies, with the main focus being the activities of drafting the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications (ITD) in accordance with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/1972 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 establishing the European Code for Electronic Communications. ZID of the LEC introduces in Bulgarian legislation the new regulatory policy in the field of electronic communications, including measures to promote competition and stimulate investment in networks with very high capacity and 5G networks. Mr. Dimitrov stressed that the CRC has carried out the activities set out in the National roadmap for the fulfilment of the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria under Decision (EU) 2017/899 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 on the use of the 470-790 MHz frequency band in the Union related to the release of a frequency spectrum of terrestrial digital television for the introduction of 5G networks. The President of the CRC pointed out that 4279 inspections were carried out in order to increase the effectiveness of control activities related to the implementation of electronic communications in 2020. Particular attention is paid to compliance with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Communications with regard to the protection of public interest and the interests of end-users. And in 2020 a major share of the checks (about 77%) were carried out on the three largest companies providing electronic communications services and are related to complaints from end users in the CRC concerning the services offered by them: After the presentation of the report was held a discussion, which took part the MPs Blagovest Belev, Nastimir Ananiev, Stoyan Georgiev, Georgi Svilenski, Rosen Zhelyazkov, Martin Dimitrov, Zlatomira Mostrova. Questions were raised regarding the ways in which CRC stimulates competition in the market, especially in the mobile market, as well as the mechanisms for preventing cartel agreements. Information was requested on the opinion of the Communications Regulation Commission on the intention of large mobile operators to raise the price of their services due to the accumulated inflation for the last two years. Debate has also caused the problem of the lack of coverage of mobile services in some settlements. As a result of the vote carried out, the Committee on Transport and Communications with 15 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed that the National Assembly adopt the following decision: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2020 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 86, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 38, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u230	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. I'm opening a discussion on the report. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will not speak on the substance of the report itself. Obviously, the Commission has considered it, found it good enough to be supported. However, as far as the committee itself has had the debate on the coverage of mobile networks, I would like to say a few words on this issue from the platform of parliament, using the occasion. I believe that in the 21st century every Bulgarian citizen should have access to mobile services. This is a particularly problematic issue, not in some settlements, as the President of the Commission said, but in many settlements and in many municipalities. In my constituency Yambol, at least three of the municipalities have a series of villages that either have no coverage, or it is such that it can't actually be used, or it's hard to even use for conversation. There are certain points within the settlements, one part of them where some signal can be picked up, but in most of the settlement there is no such signal. Especially problematic is this in border villages, where it is easier to catch a Turkish operator, even sometimes you have to be very careful not to catch a Turkish operator, because the prices of services, especially of mobile data, are so high that it is quite quickly emptying you and the limit you have if you accidentally catch these networks. In this sense, I know that some of the mayors of municipalities are making efforts together with mobile operators within some type of public-private partnerships to solve these problems. I pay particular attention to this, because in a large part of these settlements there are no doctors anymore, and when you do not have access to a mobile service, so that you can make a phone call, especially the elderly, who are also difficult to move, the lack of mobile coverage in practice in some cases is also equivalent to a death sentence, as strong as it sounds. Particularly difficult was the problem with the Kovid situation in 2020, when suddenly it turned out that some of the children would have to study online. Those, though few, whose parents live in such settlements, in smaller villages, turned out to have no access to the Internet. Even if they are provided with a mobile device, they do not have a mobile Internet to adequately participate in the training. So the problem is quite large, quite wide yes, it is true, it concerns relatively few people. I understand that mobile operators are companies that work for profit. Investing in mobile networks in such places will not profit, but I believe that they should have a social function, and this social function should perhaps be enhanced by relevant amendments to the Law. I do not know whether the current legislative framework could force them to do so, whether the control functions of the Communications Regulation Commission can reach the point that these checks not only for the scope, but also for the quality of the signal to lead to some concrete results, because in previous years I have engaged and previous compositions of the Communications Regulation Commission with this issue, the battle in this direction is quite difficult. In 2020, we adopted changes that should now allow the state to enter into its function and try to play a more serious role in this, mobile operators whether, in the form of some joint initiatives, jointly, as I said, with the local authorities, but to ensure that every Bulgarian citizen in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria has access to mobile services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u232	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Are there any lines to Christian Vigenin? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, I'm going to make a procedural proposal. In the Draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Report is written as a basis of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 86, para. Five o'clock. It's the right thing to do. 12. Paragraph 12 says: "By the report, a decision is adopted. " - So my procedural proposal is....................................................................................... To be replaced by................................................................................................ In the Draft Decision. Colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move on to the vote. First of all, I am voting on the proposal that I have made for amendment to the Project, which is "al." To be replaced by................................................................................................ 12. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u234	They voted 129 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. a total of 130: 126 votes for the House and 1 online................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the draft decision in accordance with the amendments already adopted. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u236	They voted 131 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. a total of 132: 129 votes for the House and 1 online.. a total of 130, not against, abstention 2. The proposal is adopted, with this the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2020. Moving on to the next point, which is: ANNUAL COMMISSION REPORT ON REGULLATION OF 2020 COMMUNICATIONS ANALYSIS ON THE MARKET OF POST SERVICES. Here you are, Mr. Gutsanov, for the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2020 supplied by the Communications Regulation Commission on 29 June 2021. At its regular meeting held on 20 January 2022, the Transport and Communications Commission examined the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2020. supplied by the Communications Regulation Commission on 29 June 2021. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivan Dimitrov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, and Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov, Director of the Communications and Communications Directorate. The annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2020 "Analysis on the postal services market" was presented by Mr. Ivan Dimitrov. The annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services for 2020 shall be drawn up on the basis of art. 17, para. 1 of the Postal Services Act. The report takes into account the state and development of postal services and includes systematized information about the market in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020. The implementation of the quality regulations of the universal postal service (UPS) is followed, the efficiency of services, the security of postal security, the control activities carried out to protect consumers, as well as the development of postal services. Mr. Dimitrov said that the Commission's actions in 2020 as an authority responsible for regulating and controlling postal services were focused on ensuring continuity in providing universal postal services as a socially significant service and encouraging postal operators to comply with all anti-epidemic requirements in order to ensure the safety of postal service users. The Annual Report stressed that CRC for 2020 issued 10 new individual licenses for the provision of services within the scope of the UPU and for the provision of postal cash transfers. 20 new operators are registered to perform non-universal postal services (NGOs) under art. 38, t. The total number of postal operators in 2020 amounts to 201. For the purpose of the analysis, the postal market is divided into two main segments of the R & D & I segment. The service is a universal postal service entrusted to carry out the Bulgarian Posts and the services within the scope of the UPU form the market segment UPU. The services of postal cash transfers and mail services form the market segment of non-universible postal services. The total revenue generated by the services in the APU segment in 2020 marked a significant reduction of 50,5% compared to 2019 and amounted to 43 million. lv. In the NAP segment, there was an increase in revenues of 24% and their size reached 592 million. lv. According to the data of licensed operators operating services within the scope of the UPU, the reason for the decline in UPU revenues is due, on the one hand, to the change in consumer attitudes, which are looking for more and more value added services above the universal. On the other hand, the weak interest in traditional postal services is also due to the significant increase in shipments generated by e-commerce, which are mostly supplied as courier services, whose relative share reaches 87,9% of total realised revenue. During a one-year period, there was an increase in revenue from courier services, which increased both by 25% and in relative terms by 8.8 percentage points compared to 2019. In 2020, the trend of a decrease in the market share of the historical operator continues, reaching 7,5% of the total market, calculated on the basis of revenues from all postal services. In 2020 the revenues from all services of the Bulgarian Post Office mark a reduction in absolute value compared to 2019, which reflects on the total share of the Company in the market, and it continues to lose its market position. In the case of services provided under the conditions of strong competition, the loss of the position of the Bulgarian Post Office is the most tangible and in the segment of the NAP reaches 1.9% and in particular in courier services the share of the Company in 2020 is only 2%. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, with a growth of 24% compared to 2019. Following the analysis, it can be concluded that the trend of growth in the volume of the segment is maintained, mainly due to the increase in revenues from courier services to the country by 30% compared to 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u238	Would you like some help, Mr. Gutsanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u239	No, they're still page and a half. But faster, Mr. Chairman, I can't read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u240	I see.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u241	In the Annual Report it is stated that the postal operator is the Bulgarian Post Office, which through the AP is entrusted with the obligation to carry out the AP on the territory of the whole country, including in hard-to-reach areas, of a certain quality and at affordable prices. Under the obligation imposed, the AMP shall be provided by an operator on all business days, at least 5 days a week, and shall provide for at least one collection of postal items on each working day of the access points and one delivery to the recipients. The AWD allows for an exception from the frequency for delivery and collection of postal consignments, which the Communications Regulation Commission has defined by means of the List of settlements meeting the criteria for hard access. It is important to note that by 31 December 2020, according to the operator, the number of postal stations of the Company is 2973. Of these, 633 are urban, and 2340 are located in the villages. Of the post offices in the villages 240 are located in settlements with a population of less than 150 inhabitants, 1304 are in settlements with a population of more than 150 inhabitants and less than 800 inhabitants and 796 are in settlements with a population of over 800 inhabitants. Postal services in the settlements in the country are also provided through postal offices and post offices. The total number of settlements served in one of the above ways is 5165. In operation are 4729 mailboxes for collection of unauthorized correspondent consignments. The served population from one mailbox on average for the country is 1600 inhabitants. In 2020 there was no change in the number and location of access points to the mail network of the Bulgarian Post Office versus 2019. In order to verify the fulfilment of the obligation to provide the UAP during all working days.. at least five days a week................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The universal postal service shall be provided by an operator under conditions other than normal commercial conditions. As a service of general economic interest, in art. 29 of the AP is provided for the Bulgarian Post Office to receive compensation from the state budget when the obligation to provide the AP leads to net costs and constitutes an unfair financial burden for the operator. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. The CRC has submitted an application for compensation of net costs and the unfair financial burden of providing the service in 2019 in accordance with the provision of art. 29a of the LPD. The amount of the compensation requested for the provision of the UMP for 2019 increased by 8.5% compared to the one for 2018, which according to the Bulgarian Post Office is due to an increase in the amount of net costs due to an increase in staff costs, maintenance of the outdated building fund and the company's car park. On the basis of an audit report and an analysis carried out, the CRC has determined the amount of net costs of carrying out the APU in 2019 of 26,894 thousand. BGN, which represents an unfair financial burden of carrying out the APU for 2019 In accordance with the Order of Art. 29a, para. 7 The Commission has submitted to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications a proposal to include the amount of funds to compensate for the unfair financial burden in the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. In accordance with the legal obligation to control compliance with the regulations in the field of postal services, the requirements for carrying out the UAP, the conditions for the implementation of the individual licences issued and the obligations of the operators carrying out the NAP in 2020, a total of 309 inspection visits were carried out by authorised employees of the CRC. During the discussion the MPs spoke: Georgi Svilenski, Zlatomira Mostrova, Kalin Ivanov, Blagovest Belev, Nastimir Ananiev, Borislav Antonov and Sezgin Mehmed. The importers of the Report were asked questions about the amount of compensation requested for the provision of the UMP for 2019 by the Bulgarian Post Office, as well as about the choice of an auditor who performed an audit of the documents relating to the calculation of the net costs of carrying out the universal postal service. The question was also raised whether there was a change in the number and location of the access points to the postal network of the Bulgarian Post Office for 2020 compared to 2019. On the part of the CRC representatives it was answered that there was no change in the number and location of the points for access to the postal network of BP compared to the previous year. At the same time, it was explained that the CRC received proposals from BP for changes in the number of working days in postal stations providing UPU and meeting the criteria for hard access (21 settlements). In this regard, the CRC has decided to validate the changes in the list of settlements meeting these criteria. During the meeting were discussed issues related to the security of postal items as well as the proportion of complaints about untimely processed and delivered consignments to the country and abroad. As a result of the vote carried out, the Committee on Transport and Communications with 12 votes for abstention and 1 vote for abstention proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2020 "Search market analysis" The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 86, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 17, para. 1 of the Postal Services Act HAS DECIDED The annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2020 shall be adopted. "Analise on the postal market. "
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u242	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I'm doing the proposal again. 5 to be replaced by para. 12 in the draft decision read by Borislav Gutsanov. First of all, we are voting on the editorial proposal para. 5 to be replaced by para. 12. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u244	They voted 125 MPs in the House plus 1 online " 126" total: 122 in the House plus 1 online "123," no objection, abstentioned 3. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the main text in accordance with the version already voted. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-09.u246	Thank you. They voted 124 MPs in the House plus 1 online.. 125 total: 124 in the House plus 1 online.. 125 total, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal is adopted by which the Communications Regulation Commission report is adopted. That's why I'm closing today's session. The next regular meeting will be held tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. Good day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
