ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please register. We have four colleagues online. Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u3	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u5	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u7	And Tsvetan Enchev? He's gone. Okay, three colleagues online. We have 184 registered MPs in the hall and registered 3 online There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] According to the adopted National Assembly Work Programme for this week, the agenda for today, Friday, 28 January 2022 includes three points: 1. Hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria on the consequences of the visit of the Prime Minister to the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the intergovernmental meeting between the two countries. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Preschool and School Education Act. 3. Parliamentary control in the order of art. 91 to 103 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Moving on to point one: HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA ON THE CONVERSATION OF THE MINISTER OF THE PRESENT IN THE REPUBLIC OF NERVE MACEDONIA AND THE INTERVERAL MEETING BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRYS. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye. [[Noise, lines and applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister! Art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria states: "The People's Representatives are entitled to questions and questions to the Council of Ministers or to individual ministers who are obliged to answer. Mr. Chairman, I think art. 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Art. 92 I think we know them, Art. 111, I think you have changed it in this, the forty-seventh National Assembly and have added a text with penalties for those who do not perform art. Article 90 of the Constitution, Art. 138 of the Rules of the National Assembly, I think you understand. Mr. Chairman, I asked Minister Boyko Rashkov a question on December 15th. Until today, I have not received an answer and have not received the requested documents according to art. Art. 111, Art. 138 of the Rules of Procedure. I just looked at the National Assembly's website on the status of the question I have asked is that it has been answered. I got into the answer, there's no such answer! There is some letter which, apparently, is a correspondence between you and Minister Rashkov. Join the role of President of the National Assembly according to art. 92, para. 1 and para. 5 of the Rules of the National Assembly the questions and questions pass through you so that as President of the National Assembly you can monitor the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers and the individual ministers to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, in this case it is a matter of art. 90. First, to fix the website of the National Assembly so that you do not mislead both the Members of the National Assembly and the Ministers and the Bulgarian citizens and, secondly, to take the role of President of the National Assembly and the Ministers to provide me with the documents requested, as the Constitution dictates. If you cannot do this job, Mr. Chairman, clear this place so that a person can perform the functions and duties of President of the National Assembly can take over. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u9	And thank you, Mr. Karadaye. On the website of the National Assembly is published the reply received by Minister Boyko Rashkov. Your objection was also sent to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u10	I'll read it to you. 92 for this comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u11	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u12	I need to read...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u13	We'll read it together. Thank you. Not now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u14	Mr. Chairman, there's no answer!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u15	Mr. Karadaye! The answer is uploaded, if you have an objection to the substance of the answer...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u16	Mr. Chairman, if you think this writing is the answer to my question, then from now on we will have to enter into the resignation procedure of the President of the National Assembly because of art. 92, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I think that very precisely and clearly, even without the need for interpretation, says I will now read it, just to see where para is. 5: "When a written answer to the question has been received. " When a written answer to the question has been received! And in my question, Mr. Chairman, you know from the previous time that according to art. Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure and Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure 138 of the Rules of Procedure I have requested documents. Are the requested documents contained in that scripture, which is most likely addressed to you? And since the documents requested are not contained, there is no answer, Mr. Chairman. You're breaking art. 90, para. 5, when you say that I have received an answer and you do not fix the website of the National Assembly, you are lying to the Minister, who may think that he has sent an answer to you, but not an answer to my question. You deceive and lie to the Prime Minister, who thinks his ministers are fulfilling their obligations under the Constitution. You mislead and lie to the MPs who think the ministers answer the questions of the MPs. You mislead and lie to Bulgarian citizens as well. Mr. Chairman, you are becoming an accessory to the violation of the Constitution and the Rules of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u17	Thank you. I'll take a look at Al. 5 of art. 92 and I would ask you less to use the terms as a lie.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u18	I'll take the shorthand and the interpretation dictionary for the concept...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u19	Okay, no problem at all. Here you are, Lord Mitev for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u20	Mr. Karadaye... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u21	Mr. Mitev, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u22	Please, Mr. Chairman, don't leave... ...we saw the other day how you abused and tried to use even the people who work in the National Assembly for instruments of this, and you put us in an awkward position. Please don't give...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u23	I won't give, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u24	...to such people to express themselves in such a way and to blaspheme you from this tribune. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u25	Thank you. Maybe we should end this discussion? It's not gonna make any sense. Mrs. Angelkova was before you, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u26	Mr. Chairman, thank you. It's the way it's supposed to be. You should, Mr. President, since you are aware of Mr. Mitev's theme, even after his speech you should explain to him here, from this tribune, because he raised the question from here, to explain to him what the actual picture is. I know you're aware. And he's back in another category, which is in the English Dictionary, we'll check together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u27	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u28	Explain to him the actual picture!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u29	Mr. Chairman, I will also join Mr. Karadayi, because once again you return my questions and questions addressed to the Prime Minister. I'm using the possibility that he's here again, I don't know why you're hiding him. [[noise and cheering:..............................]] I don't know why you're afraid to point questions at him. Yes, I see that the Prime Minister is here, and that is why I say this, because twice you return my questions related to what measures does the Council of Ministers take for the sector of Tourism take in this crisis? As of today, the order has actually come into effect, which limits the work of restaurants and restaurants. The Prime Minister also directs the activities of the Council of Ministers, tourism is a horizontal sector, does not depend directly on the competence of the Minister of Tourism and therefore I urge the Prime Minister to respond to what measures have been taken and how many of them have actually reached the Bulgarian business? Because it is said on paper that there are measures, but what we hear daily from representatives of the sector is that these measures and compensations do not reach them. Apart from that, I asked a question relating to the additional material remuneration paid by the Council of Ministers, and you returned the question to me again that the seven-day deadline was not sufficient for the Prime Minister to request this information. I'm sorry, but you're always breaking art. Art. 91 and art. 92 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly and you do not allow us, as opposition, to ask our questions or at least to proceed to the addressee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. About the questions returned, you know, there's a procedure. You've asked new questions that we're about to review. About hiding the Prime Minister. Yes, yesterday he couldn't come to the National Assembly. This week Wednesday was here again today, so we'll listen to it. Mr. Totev, you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u31	For procedure. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u32	Will it be related to the manner of holding the meetings, or is it a different matter?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u33	It will be the way of parliamentary control, it is Friday today!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u34	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u35	And I, inspired by the statement of Mr. Karadayi and colleague Angelkova. Mr. Chairman, I have also asked Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev a question and I will tell my colleagues. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister in an interview with "Bloomberg" states that the government is exploring opportunities to create a cryptopay mechanism in the short and long term.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u36	Mr. Totev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u37	And my question is very simple. I ask Mr. Minister the question: is it true and if it is true, a little clarification. I'm getting a response from Mr. Chairman saying...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u38	Mr. Totev, the challenge procedure does not include entering the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u39	...speeches, opinions and interviews given or placed in the media do not involve the responsible management responsibilities of the respective minister. Well, how can they not tell him if the minister said it, the cleaning lady didn't say it. So when a minister says something in the media, it engages the Ministry and the entire government. And when we talk about such important things as financial policy, Mr. Minister, I think that should be the question...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u40	Mr. Totev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u41	...to whom the Deputy Prime Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u42	Mr. Totev, there's a procedure for this. Thank you very much. I will look forward to your challenge, which we will consider at the Presidential Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u43	I'm graduating. If Mr. Karadaye initiates such a vote for resignation, I will vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u44	Here you go. Let's move on to item one of the agenda: HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA ON THE CONVERSATION OF THE MINISTER OF THE PRESENT IN THE REPUBLIC OF NERVE MACEDONIA AND THE INTERVERAL MEETING BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRYS. The request was made by the MPs Daniel Mitov and Ekaterina Zaharieva. You are welcome to develop your question within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u45	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues! This request for a hearing has been made by us so that you can get acquainted with the Parliamentary Tribune, I think it will be the fastest, the Bulgarian citizens and the MPs to get more information about what you have achieved and agreed on by your two meetings first, your bilateral visit, after which the intergovernmental meeting, which was this week. One of your first visits, in fact, if I am not mistaken the second, and you were the first prime minister to visit the Republic of Northern Macedonia literally on the first day of the inauguration of the new government, it was you, then a week later you held the bilateral intergovernmental meeting at which you signed three memorandums. I am glad that you are trying, I would say, to continue the policy of our government for greater connectivity in all sectors between the two countries. Unfortunately, I say: this has failed us to make full progress so far, as my colleagues in Skopje, I would say, have not been decisive enough so far and the signed bilateral ones, surely there are dozens of them, contracts I have not fixed at all only the Treaty of Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation since 2017, have de facto not been implemented by them and many of them have remained only on paper. It gave us the impression that they were signing it to show the European Union that something is working, but the very signing of a memorandum or document does not lead to its implementation. They lost European funding for Corridor 8. They were creating bureaucratic obstacles to our investors. We have received dozens of signals from serious companies that due to the fact that they are Bulgarian companies, new rules are being made for them if they win a public procurement in an absolutely fair and transparent way, after which the contract is not concluded any kind of administrative obstacles just because they are investors from Bulgaria. Unprecedented propaganda against the Bulgarian state was organized, including mainly two bases: the Bulgarian state refuses and its government does not recognise the right to self-determination of Macedonian citizens. This was indeed a prop that was repeatedly repeated by members of the government not only in front of the media, but also in meetings with our European partners. And the second prop was: they refuse to recognize the right to call our language as we choose. And this was absolutely propaganda in order to divert the attention of our European partners from our real demands. The level of discrimination against the Bulgarian Macedonians has surpassed even the levels of Titova and Miloshev Yugoslavia in some moments. The little achieved by the historic committee was small, but it was still something, I can tell you. Subsequently, the members of their historic committee have been denied, and even talks are still being held whether to publish and to familiarise Macedonian citizens with what they have agreed absolutely unanimously to both sides. And here I will allow myself to make a recommendation to you and thank you for not giving in. There is pressure and it is not now, that is, you are not the first to be represented by some of the members of the Bulgarian part of the historical committee to be replaced. Many times in the public domain, by the way, the last time in your interview on the day you were there, President Pendarovski made such an inappropriate statement against the President of the Commission, many times this question has been put before us and hinted at us. Please don't give in to this pressure! Indeed, I will personally monitor it, because these members are Bulgarian experts, by the way, quite balanced, and have made immense efforts over the last two years to make progress. They don't deserve to be replaced because someone in Skopje doesn't like them. I hope that the new government of Northern Macedonia will adopt a more constructive approach, I really hope, and continue its convergence with Bulgaria and not stop with the note to the UN. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Against the backdrop of these events, some aspects of our bilateral relations remained unanswered. For example, your meeting with Macedonian President Stevo Pendarovski was extremely hopeful after her. At the same time, you hadn't flown yet, he gave an interview and gave quite disturbing signals. The first one of which is that Bulgaria already has new demands, it is giving up the framework position "Five plus one" or "Four plus one" and the new methodology will be the five working groups that you have created. I remind you that this framework position, the implementation of the contract, was confirmed very soon, and in fact the framework position includes what is in the 2017 contract and its implementation, which is nothing very different.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u46	Your time, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u47	Also... I know, but it's really important. It also impressed us that you did not raise, he said, it may not be true, so I ask you, it is good to clarify that you did not raise the issue of the rights of the Bulgarian Macedonians at all, and if you had raised it, he would have considered it an interference of the internal affairs. No, it's not internal affairs. This is a fundamental human right and an obligation of the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian government to defend the rights of Bulgarian citizens. This must be answered by the President of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. All of this, along with your statements...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u48	You're a minute and a half longer, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u49	...they point the public to the conclusion that the important issues for Bulgaria will remain on the second plan. My question is: is it true? I hope to clarify this today because, from experience I know, with infrastructure projects only, they are important, tourism is important, economics is important, connectivity is not going to be solved, unfortunately, and the most painful issues and it is better not to postpone them, but to work in parallel with benevolence, of course, from the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yes, Dimitar Kovachevski has been Prime Minister of the Republic of Northern Macedonia for one week and of those eight days, four spent with the Bulgarian government. This in itself shows a desire to do the work. The other thing I would say with satisfaction is that the ministers who came with the delegation of the Republic of Northern Macedonia were indeed a large number, and in one day we had huge advances on many of the spheres. [[Heckling]] Now, if you want to hear the answer. I'm just making sure you don't listen very carefully. [[Heckling]] Now, the next thing we did, we signed three memorandums that were in very key sectors for us: agriculture, small and medium-sized enterprises and this very Corridor No 8 railway, to start a serious work on it, because indeed Corridor No 8 has fallen from the lists of European projects and if we want to bring it back, this will happen with joint work. The next moment we in no way ignore, or put at a lower priority the Bulgarian position, even on the contrary, the discussions as they go for economics, infrastructure, culture, we also talked about the topics that are important to us and the framework position, and the focus on the rights of the Bulgarians in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. For the first time in a very long time, in the interview itself, Prime Minister Kovachevski said that he sees no problem with the introduction of Bulgarians from the Republic of Northern Macedonia into their constitution. He didn't say time, he didn't commit to time, but this was the first time he announced it. The other thing I'm happy to say is that at the moment there's no talking about Five plus One, only two weeks later we have to change the number and it's Four plus One. This in itself is progress.. we have been working for two weeks. The third thing that was fundamental to me is that it became clear to me that, while many declarations were being said on both sides of the border, the real work had not been done. In fact, what we have organised is a calendar of these meetings, to be once every seven days, so that this work is not only based on some declarations, but on the basis of real-made projects, of real-made results, and I am glad that even in the historic committee confirmed that there will be three meetings in the next few months, and between these meetings will progress much more precisely on the topics on which to date it has not reached agreement. I do not intend to replace any members of our committee, I also respect their professionalism, and what I see is that they themselves have declared that this new energy of constructive dialogue should bring much better results than what we had so far. So for two weeks to talk about the four plus one and instead of the five plus one, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Northern Macedonia said he was ready to bring the Bulgarians into their constitution without being adamant over time, but declared it to the media, to have three signed memorandums and to have a calendar where these groups meet each week, I think this is a good job for the last two weeks. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u52	Thank you, Prime Minister. We move on to the two rounds to the Prime Minister in the order of the parliamentary groups. Is there a question? I won't. From GERB-SDS? Mrs. Zaharieva, you have two minutes to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u53	Prime Minister, less enthusiasm is my advice, you will raise your expectations very high and then you will have to explain yourself to all of us. This is really one, I would say, absolutely benevolent advice, because we have played this many times. Do you know how many memorandums we signed as you signed with them? Over 20, and for Corridor No. 8 it's probably the third one I'll tell you that's all you signed. The agreements for small and medium-sized enterprises, these are some formative agreements that have them and we sign them when everyone comes. Let's see what happens to them. Really, friendly advice I give you really! It is not ill-advised because one of the reasons, in my opinion, not to achieve it or to achieve it hard on both sides is too strong a focus, I would even say, in the media and every word is interpreted and distorted. So sometimes it's really better to be more robbed and really show the truth. Otherwise, I congratulate you on the note. It has been working for a year and a half, and I even know that it was prepared before that, as well as the contract that we signed in 2017 has not started with us, and I have always stressed it. The first draft was sent 2012 by Bulgaria and signed only 2017. A series of governments, ministers, diplomats, prime ministers worked. And, yes, I am glad that in our time we have actually managed to solve the worst issue, precisely for the common history, because for this this treaty was not signed before that for the common history. So my question is in this connection about general history. It's a very difficult subject to understand. The easiest thing to overcome is reluctance and fear, I'd say, on their part, to see that there's nothing scary about us having a history together. On the contrary, it can be positive, with general celebrations of both governments of symbolic events and personalities between the two countries. And in this regard, because, indeed, as you said, four days have spent with you in one week, so during these four days: have you been able to negotiate at least a few general event celebrations this year? In just one week it is 4 February....................................................................................... a...................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u54	The weather, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u55	Are you planning something for February 4th together? In fact, what calendar for joint events did you manage to make this year, for these four days, with your colleagues in Skopje?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u56	Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u57	Thank you for your good advice. We are optimistic about work, but of course we must monitor the real results. I agree that we just prepared, we did, we signed, but we didn't do anything, it's not a good way to manage this relationship. The only thing our government will be following is the real results. For February 4th, we are preparing a joint celebration, so this is indeed a fact and this is also a good real step. But for the note, by the way, it was very interesting. One of the reasons why they said they gave it to us, it's been said for two years, all the ministers, work is done, but in the end someone decided that they had to sign it, and that actually made it the new prime minister. And he said, "Why did I do it? Because you decided to come first in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. " When everyone blamed us: "It was a weakness, but it wasn't a diplomatic move, it was a go, it was a show of constructive dialogue, it was an optimism for our joint activities, and we came back not with "Five plus one" but with "Four plus one." So this will be from here on out the approach of real results, not just hopes and general fairy tales. I hope I won't disappoint you. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u58	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Is there a question from the DPS? Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister Petkov, our question will be brief. Do you know who the European Parliament's rapporteur for the Republic of Northern Macedonia is and do you have any communication with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u60	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u61	Thanks for asking. No, I have not spoken to him, but I can make it clear that yesterday I spoke with both the President of the European Parliament and the President of the European Commission. They were very hopeful of the first results and the first signals we gave from the two countries - Dimitar Kovachevski really and he is in Brussels next week. So for now, we have not entered this level at which you advise, but we have spoken at the highest level in Brussels and we are receiving support not because they require something from us, but because they have hoped that political talk has been replaced by real action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u62	Thank you. Is there a question from the BSP for Bulgaria? There's Manol Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u63	Honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman! I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his presence here and for the third or fourth time we have seen each other this week. This also confirms parliamentaryism, confirms transparency in decision-making in the Bulgarian government, because we Bulgarian parliamentarians, who are more here in this Chamber, have other memories when we prayed to a prime minister for years, especially in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, to come and respect the Bulgarian MPs. Unfortunately, these requests could be heard by the Most High, but then Prime Minister Boyko Borisov did not hear you. However, I now see that this hearing is initiated by colleagues from GERB. Mr. Prime Minister, these same people want to instruct you right now, they're giving you advice. What did four years after we finished the fanfare of the Presidency on the integration of the Western Balkans into the European Union? Nothing! The Bulgarian people remained convinced that during this time in foreign policy none of the partners in Europe understood what our problem was with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. The problem is that it is inherited that a number of governments are guilty or innocent over the years and over time. Yeah, that's all a fact, that's all. But what was done in foreign policy? What we had against the Macedonian state, which used different lobbyists both in the United States and in Europe, which organized a propaganda against the Bulgarian state. I would like to remind you of an institute in Slovenia that constantly spews manipulations and stigmatizing materials against the Bulgarian state. It is clear and we understand that GERB's strategy in the foreign policy plan has failed for these years. My question is: what will this government do from now on, what strategy will it build and carry out so that we can persuade European partners in our right, in the veto that we impose and the veto that we impose on the Republic of Northern Macedonia and its non-discrimination in the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u64	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Here you go, Mr. Petkov. [[National Representative Ekaterina Zaharieva wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] I'll give you the floor after Mr. Petkov, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u65	Why would you give her the floor?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u66	We'll hear. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u67	Thanks for asking. In fact, what I saw yesterday in Brussels that if we talk about the problems between the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Bulgaria as a framework of bilateral problems, no one understands us. But when we submit the thesis that these problems are not bilateral but based on common European principles, our European partners hear us. What does that mean? Instead of talking only about the rights of the Bulgarians in Northern Macedonia, if we talk that in the Republic of Northern Macedonia as a new member who hopes to become a member of the European Union, there is no talk of human rights, zero tolerance to discrimination and absolute intolerance of hate speech, these are definitions which the European Union not only understands, it believes. Those are their principles. And then suddenly there are topics that are so important to us, such as the rights of the Bulgarians in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. By entering into these general principles and by saying that we in Bulgaria keep these general principles to be respected for everyone, including the countries that intend to become part of the Union, there is a sensitivity. It is even better for me that Dimitar Kovachevski himself showed a sensitivity on these topics. We opened BTA's office together in Skopje. And something that, personally, impressed me, he gave his own phone to the person who will be constantly in this office from BTA and said: if there is even the smallest vandal act or even the smallest graffiti in front of your office, don't call the police, call me personally, which was the gesture that we should stimulate and say: this is the approach. So I think that the European partners heard us and from now on we will need to build a common monitoring mechanism for this not to become a single act, but to become a system for managing hate language and to remove discrimination entirely as a European principle in the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the Bulgarians who are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u68	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. For procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u69	Mr. Chairman! My procedure is with you for not giving me the floor. I am entitled to this under the Rules of Procedure, namely to a personal explanation for the speech of the MP who asked the question to BSP Mr. Genov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Although he didn't mention me personally, he talked about Bulgaria's foreign policy when I was a foreign minister. So what I wanted to say to Mr. Genov, I will say it now: You must give the floor for a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u70	Say it to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u71	You have to give us the floor for a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u72	When you're mentioned in person and by name!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u73	He spoke 40 seconds later and you didn't mention the word time at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u74	I gave him a sign, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u75	At the tenth second of my speech you didn't interrupt me, for which I thank you, but five seconds back you're talking to me: time, time, time! It was the same from this room. Please have the same standards for ruling and opposition MPs! Otherwise, Mr. Petkov, this is how we've been explaining it all along, maybe they'll start hearing at last.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. But I gave you two minutes more when the question was developed. So I don't think you can accuse me of interrupting. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Chairman, I ask you to follow the Staff Regulations. It is clearly written when a personal explanation is given. Yes, colleagues from GERB will be affected whenever this tribune tells the truth about their governance. That doesn't mean they have to go out and explain what they should have done and why they didn't. When you're not mentioned personally and you're not offended and offended, I don't know what they've done to offend you, Mrs. Zaharieva, to come out for a personal explanation. Let's follow the rules we're working on. You spoke six minutes and 30 seconds, Mrs. Zaharieva, Manol Genov speaks two minutes and 30 seconds. Who talks more?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u78	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. And now we move on to a question from.. There is such a people. No question. The Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? No question. Here you are, Mr. Kostadinov, for a question on behalf of the parliamentary group of the party.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u79	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister! The negotiations with Macedonia are extremely important because Macedonia is the second Bulgarian state on the Balkan Peninsula, and the big problem with it is not related to the lack of transport links, it is not related to the lack of a met agreement for cheap roaming, it is not related to any other relationship, it is related to the forgery of history, of self-consciousness, of repression against Bulgarians there, which have been taking place for more than 100 years. That is precisely why our relationship revolves only around this key to the historical and philological issue. Because we should not forget that the opinion of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences that the so-called Macedonian language is a dialect of the Bulgarian language has not changed. And we keep saying that. Another question is whether someone outside Bulgaria is aware of this position and to what extent our so-called partners accept it and whether they are even known about it. My question to you is this: because you are focusing on other things, first of all I would like to congratulate you on what you said that there will be no changes in the composition of the Historical Commission, because in Macedonian media this has already been commented as something that will happen, almost not already happened. The composition of the Bulgarian Historical Commission should definitely not be changed. It is made very precise with some of the best Bulgarian specialists on this issue. And that is precisely why their Macedonian colleagues avoid meetings because they simply have nothing to say when they are at the talks. And that is precisely why the Historical Commission of the Bulgarian country managed to cause some very serious breakthroughs, which are yet to be announced. We have reserved the right to do it at a convenient time for us, as you well know. However, my question to you is this: last year, regarding the additional condition for the inclusion of Bulgarians as one of the nationalities in the Constitution of the Republic of Macedonia, this issue was quite confused by the Macedonian negotiating delegation. You are wrong when you said that for the first time Kovachevski mentioned that he was okay with the introduction of Bulgarians into the Constitution last year his predecessor Zaev said so. I listened when he said now really that he didn't mind, but he mentioned: after the green light was given. However, our conditions are for this to happen before the green light is given, that is, there is a very key gap. You shut up. I want to know if it's because you agreed because you thought you had yet to discuss it in the negotiation process, or because you just didn't want to spoil the good impression of the meeting with the Macedonian government held on Bulgarian territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u80	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u81	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the rights of the Bulgarians in the Republic of Northern Macedonia put them in a huge priority, as well as the topics for our common history. By the way, here I have to say that the Historical Commission, yes, there are even some prepared texts. We decided to first see precisely and clearly what are the arguments and points with which the Historical Commission has already agreed, because it is always good, when a constructive dialogue begins, to start from what we agree, and then to see what we are not with. I really assure you, we are not going to replace the people in the Historical Commission because I believe they are doing their job well. It was important to the Constitution that Prime Minister Kovachevski said so because from his point of view there is a political risk with his opposition. He has already released one of the points unilaterally and at the same time shared in the media that the Bulgarians will enter as such a people in the Constitution as are currently Albanians. From this point of view, exactly how will it happen? We are discussing it now and this is part of the discussions, but one thing I assure you that we will do it in the negotiations that this will be a fact - the Bulgarian interest will be protected and the Bulgarians in the Republic of Northern Macedonia will have equal rights. What's more interesting to me is because this is a little declarative act, a very important one, but that's the only thing that won't change, in fact, the real situation that would change is in the next 10 years. That's what I'm saying is very important, so not one or the other, but both. For the next 10 years, we must work with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, while they open each of their 27 chapters -- this monitoring mechanism -- which is against discrimination and human rights violations -- and against hate speech -- is actually being used, because we cannot in a few weeks, months, turn something that has been invested in the opposite direction for years. If we make a clean mechanism, any incident in hate speech we can bring it through the European process. This gives us a mechanism to reverse rhetoric for the next 10 years. Why are relationships important? All of us politicians are part of a political cycle. What a political cycle it is, no one knows. If we make the train line, if our businesses really work, their interaction and their cooperative will be much longer than our political cycles. Why is that important? If you have a huge business that works with Bulgaria, for example, or a Bulgarian business that works with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, and say, a large part of your business depends on the other market, will you be the person who will speak hate language, would you want to discriminate against people? No. You will want to be a constructive partner of governments because I personally do not trust the Balkans. You know, governments come from all kinds of places. It is not clear when, what prime minister, what government will come. If we have tied the two economies and tied the infrastructure, these are the long-term relationships that will not depend on this or that, so I focus on the economy as a long-term guarantee of good neighbourliness. And political dialogue, without retreating from our position, we work to protect our interests as much as possible, and the focus is from here on not only in what we have not agreed on, because we can fight from here to the end of the world, but to work with what we have agreed. By the way, progress has been made on the Historical Commission. It is a pity that it has not been fully formally accepted to the end, but we will use this progress and we will have to formalise it. The ultimate goal of Bulgaria, it is also very important to say what is best for Bulgaria? The best thing for Bulgaria is the Bulgarian interest to have a good neighbourhood, to have open borders, the rights of the Bulgarians in Northern Macedonia to be protected, the Republic of Northern Macedonia to be a democratic country, to have removed corruption, to have access to the EU funds, to have no borders among ourselves. So this is the long-term strategy we are fighting for, but this should not be at the cost of ignoring specific Bulgarian interests, I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u82	Thank you. We move on to the second round of questions to the Prime Minister. We're continuing the Change? Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u83	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I'm not asking a question. I just wanted to congratulate the Prime Minister because the adoption of Northern Macedonia into the European Union is important for the Bulgarian interest, it is important that we legitimise the process. I want to thank for this leadership and I will mention only one fact that is very key, because here colleagues from GERB are very excited. This meeting, which you have made in Bulgaria, the so-called G to G government with government, has not been done since 2018. Four years has not taken any action, but in two weeks I think it has done as much work as it has not been done in four years. I hope we... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u84	Mr. Ananiev, ask yourself a question!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u85	...be a leader in the Balkans. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u86	Mr. Ananiev, there must be a question for the Prime Minister. However, Mrs. Zaharieva also had two minutes' advice, but there was a question. [[Relations from the National Representative Kostadin Angelov, noise and laughter in GERB-SDS.]] Professor, it doesn't suit you... Mr. Mitov, come in for a question on behalf of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ananiev, if you're going to read such panegirics from the National Assembly stands, this is not where he belongs, you should have asked a question. That's a brief remark. Prime Minister, the fact that you are impressed by the idea that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Northern Macedonia has given his phone to our head of the BTA Press Club is thoughtful, but I hope you will not experience disappointment because we have experienced it. I hope there's something else going on here. After your visit to Skopje, where you held a number of meetings with the Prime Minister, the President, the opposition leader, the President of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Mr Pendarovski gave an extensive interview for one of the television stations in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. In this interview, the President of the Republic of Northern Macedonia detailed his interpretations and perceptions of what was achieved after his meeting with you. In it he argues, firstly, that in practice you have given indications that the Bulgarian conditions reflected in the framework position and "Five plus one" are no longer in practice. This framework is in the past and everything will be solved with the discussions in the working groups that he says. The President of the Republic of Northern Macedonia claims that you have not raised the issue of the rights of the Bulgarians, citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, he also claims that there is in fact a Macedonian minority in Bulgaria. Today Mr. Pendarovski has scheduled a meeting with the unregistered OMO in Bulgaria. My question is this, it consists of two parts: First of all, have you made a de facto commitment to destroy the negotiating framework? Five plus one and redirect it in the direction of the created working groups? I don't know how I'm going to negotiate there. Do you know what OMO is? What is your attitude towards the fact that Mr. Pendarovski today will actually give them legitimacy that violates the neighbourhood treaty? Just to let you know once again how other colleagues have done: that Mr Kovachevski may have said that he sees no problem in the Constitution of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to be changed and that the Bulgarians should be listed as a state-owned people, only that then, sometime, in the future and perhaps never. Because when something like this is postponed in the future, it means never. If we do not protect this Bulgarian interest now, it will not happen, you know. Thank you and I expect an answer. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u88	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u89	Thanks for asking. President Pendarovski said at our meeting: "Never in the last thirty years has the level of good neighbourliness and the dialogue that we have so far had been at a lower point. " - So we started and I understand your disappointment. Over the years, it's reached the lowest point. At the lowest points, there is something that is also positive that from now on we can only build on and make better results. In the Republic of Northern Macedonia we know that there are groups of people who do not really want this to happen, they do not even want the Republic of Northern Macedonia to enter the European Union. There are many people who are working on this, but the good thing is that the foreign policy of both the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia depends on the executive power of the Council of Ministers. And the other thing is, I would like to congratulate our coalition partners here I speak on behalf of the entire team, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the face of Teodora Genchovska, she was an instrumental person to have these meetings happen, Mr. Vigenin in his visit to the Republic of Northern Macedonia opened the dialogue at parliamentary level. From now on, we will focus on the constructive tone and ignore the individual forces that will try to get this potential progress off the rails. Yeah, we'll keep a close watch, count the results. Yes, we cannot blindly enter these negotiations, but the fact that the executive and not the president's institution determines foreign policy I personally do not focus on the specific words of Mr Pendarovski's statement, and Dimitar Kovachevski made his opinion clear. On the subject of the Macedonian minority, it is absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable, and this Bulgarian government would not open, it would not even open the door on such a topic, so I do not even intend to discuss it. That's hardly on the subject. So who's there for what, what are OMOs, what are they? We know what they are. Yes, we are sure that they will try to trip the young government in the Republic of Northern Macedonia with what they can. We will not succumb to provocations. We have a clear compass, we know where we want to go, we draw the path we need to get to, and we'll work on it. We're not just gonna talk about it. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u90	Thank you, Prime Minister. On behalf of the DPS? Second question please, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister Petkov, as you yourself mentioned in the answer to the previous question, the enlargement of the European Union to the Western Balkans, and in particular the Republic of Northern Macedonia, are not topics which are within the power of one prime minister, of only one government or of only one ruling majority. These are issues that require the broadest possible national consensus and continuity, as they develop far beyond the mandates of only one government. For example, the DPS has finished a lot on the issue without going into detail for now, both in the liberal family, and in putting the issue as a national position of Bulgaria in the Council in 2018. My question and the question of the DPS is: how will you guarantee the continuity of work on these issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u92	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u93	Thanks for asking. You're right, these trials are long. One way in which we will guarantee the continuation and start with this, we declared that the existing position of the Republic of Bulgaria will be confirmed. That's how our conversation started, from now on it will be upgraded with the next steps. The other thing I can very clearly share is that on this national issue, we will consult both in the ruling coalition and with the opposition, because it is important for me, before we make the next clear and tangible steps of progress, that we are all largely with a common consensus. I hereby declare that I will seek full support because this is a national issue, although responsibility now falls only with us. This dialogue will be open. I hope that if we have gaps somewhere that we can build on and ourselves, you will point them out to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u94	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria? No question. There is such a people? No question. The Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? I won't. Party rebirth? Come in for a question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u95	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is this: in 2017 a transport memorandum was signed between Bulgaria and Northern Macedonia to build a railway between the two countries, respectively what is the money that you intend to put into this year's budget for the construction of the Bulgarian section and when do you plan to prepare it? Also, what money do you intend to spend and when do you intend to have a highway at least from Sofia to the border with the Republic of Northern Macedonia? Do you think about doing this before the deadline, which is set, because for the railway project, the deadline set for the Bulgarian country is 2027 and by the end of 2027 from the current moment there are almost six years? Don't you think this is too much time to wait, and do you intend to finish the project early and when exactly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u96	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u97	Thanks for asking. A few things we will do as first steps, and I will answer your question specifically too. In March, we hope to let the airline work, fly. So that it would be March........................................................................................... We hope that the 13 kilometers that we have not built at the crossings will happen this year. We open another one with a mile. I don't know why we let a 13-mile stretch not happen?! That would be a huge priority for us. About the railway project yesterday with the President of the European Commission we spoke and she said: we are very ready to support this project. This project for us is strategic for several reasons. Firstly, it guarantees long-term potential neighbourhood; secondly, it is precisely the connection between the European countries that we want to see; and thirdly, it is a green project. So, she said, "Come to us. We are ready to finance and help this project, we also see it as a priority. My hope is that not only will we shorten this period of 2027, but we will use not budget money but European money and will be able to be prioritized so that it can happen faster without costing this to the Bulgarian taxpayer, but the profit from this additional connection will happen in a short time. Minister Sabev and Minister Karadjov work together in this joint group on transport and regional development and I hope that within a very short period of time they will give us objective dates for this project to happen. But yesterday I was confident that the European Commission would support this with the means to happen as quickly as possible. We'll keep an eye on him. From now on, all these victories that are easily achievable, and progress should just take them. Those 13 kilometers, I couldn't believe how that was possible.! Can you imagine, 13 kilometers to stay so we can have another complete relationship, so we will work together and inform you about the progress of these projects. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u98	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. That concludes the questions to the Prime Minister. We are moving on to expression by the parliamentary groups. On the part of the Parliamentary Group We continue the Change? There aren't any people who want to make a statement. On behalf of GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u99	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In today's hearing, the expectations of you, Prime Minister, were to give not only a statement of the consequences of your visit and the intergovernmental meeting held, but also to provide guarantees for the implementation of the recommendations of the Advisory Council on National Security. The latter have stepped on national and political consensus, for which there is also broad public agreement. You are expected to protect the parameters laid down in the Framework Position of the Government and the Declaration of Parliament of 2019. The commitment you have made within the Advisory Council for National Security is to take into account progress in our relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the basis of real results achieved. In the conclusion of today's hearing, it is appropriate to summarize what can be considered a real result both according to the national agreement and according to the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. We will consider the following things to be really achieved: First, achieving real guarantees for discouragement of actions guaranteeing a language of hatred and anti-Bulgarian rhetoric. These guarantees must be achieved through the creation by Skopje of an institutional mechanism that has powers in this direction and must be backed up with real financing. Secondly, to make visible and decisive progress with regard to the elimination of historical forgeries in the education system of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Much of the anti-Bulgarian rhetoric in the Republic of Northern Macedonia comes precisely from the propaganda historical narratives inherited from the times of communist Yugoslavia. This includes the harmonisation of history books, geography and literature, as well as joint celebrations of personalities and events in our common history. Thirdly, achieving real guarantees for the respect of the rights of Bulgarians who are citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, including, if possible, within reasonable time limits and before the start of negotiations, the inclusion of Bulgarians as a country nation in the Constitution of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, as well as the refusal of the Republic of Northern Macedonia from minority claims to the Republic of Bulgaria. And fourth, opening up the files of the communist services and the Union of Communists in Macedonia from the times of the former Yugoslavia; reaching an official recognition and apology for the cases of people and their families, persecuted and injured for expressing their Bulgarian self-consciousness. Prime Minister, we must inform you that achieving economic connectivity in itself is a good thing, but does not reflect the real emphasis in the problems accumulated between the two countries. If you are in captivity to the logic that it is good for the Republic of Northern Macedonia to be released to start negotiations, and then somehow in the course of these negotiations to resolve the serious issues, we must warn you that this approach has been proven ineffective. Our experience has learned that the countries, after starting negotiations, are digging into their negotiating positions and it is virtually impossible to change them. If your current approach is aimed at raising clouds of communication dust and fog to demonstrate that something extraordinary is happening between the two countries, and then try to sell this approach as some real results by putting aside the real problems, we must tell you that such a plan will not work and will cause a severe political and social reaction. Our national interest, of course, is for the Republic of Northern Macedonia to be a full member of the European Union, but not at the expense of Bulgarian history and Bulgarian national dignity. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u100	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. On behalf of the DPS for expression of attitude? Mustafa Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Prime Minister, I thank you and congratulate you because we have understood that your values are respect for human rights and freedoms, zero tolerance for discrimination and the fight against hate speech. I congratulate you because, on the basis of these values, a movement for rights and freedoms has arisen and the DPS is the first political party to be registered by law since the fall of the communist regime and after the change of art. 1 from the communist Constitution. Our philosophy of policy making was the togetherness, which is the basis of the Bulgarian ethnic model, which is that differences are not a problem, and differences are wealth. The different to stand up for their identity. If necessary, help the different one to stand up for his identity and together build our common future. This has been our philosophy for 30 years since the creation of a Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Since there are a number of historical divisions in the Balkans that serve as the basis for different oppositions and for different claims, we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and stated 1991 through our Honorary President Dr. Ahmed Dogan that Bulgaria's place is in the European Union, but the road to membership in the European Union passes through NATO membership, and we realized it when we took part in power. In 2004, we became NATO members, in 2007. The European Union, but since the 1990s, we have shared the philosophy that instead of opposing and seeking our differences, we should seek our common future and unification, naturally, without neglecting the facts. And from this point of view, it is our philosophy that these differences can be overcome by joining common alliances such as NATO and the European Union, and we have invariably worked for this for all these 32 years, including the last 15 years. I can give some examples. For example, in 2017, we were in opposition, as we are now in opposition, but then on the basis of the national decision, we made our best efforts both in the Presidency of Bulgaria and in the Troika priority to be the enlargement of the European Union with the countries of the Western Balkans. I think that the political process participants at the time, because there are some who have not been involved, remember these things very well. I can give some of the examples. Apart from what we have done as a job in Brussels, the European Parliament and the liberal family, we have done so as to turn the focuss towards Bulgaria and the Balkans. October 2017 we gathered here in Sofia, the leaders of the Liberals, from Bulgaria undoubtedly these are the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and in the Balkans, the Balkan countries and the European Liberals and we did a seminar, weekend, which received enough wide publicity in Bulgaria and Europe, on the topic of enlargement of the European Union with the Western Balkan countries. In 2018 we held a Council of Liberals in Bulgaria and more than 300 leaders of liberal parties from Europe came to Bulgaria. Once again, the topic was the enlargement of the European Union with the Western Balkan countries. And a number of things we were able to do at that time. I don't want to say all the things. Including last, and now, last year, we were on the Council of Liberals in Slovenia, where important decisions were taken. Seven prime ministers attended the Liberals' meeting in Slovenia. We have discussed these questions again. But there are some things that are somehow not very good when we hear them here, Mr. Prime Minister. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Sorry, I'm done! We understand from your answers that you are almost self-sufficient, everything before you has been bad and all other than you are bad. Just to remind you that the permanent rapporteur of the European Parliament for Northern Macedonia is from Bulgaria. He is a Bulgarian MEP. Moreover, he is the president of one of the main political families in Europe - the Liberals - and is named Ilhan Kucuk and is from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We share the idea that not on every subject should we feel obliged to seek artificial arguments for opposition to power and opposition or to look for any differences. There are some topics on which, with common efforts and national consensus, we must move forward, undoubtedly, based on the past and using the past, and with today's actions to build up and lay a good foundation for the future as well. Thank you. Sorry, Mr. Chairman, about the weather! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u102	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria "Kristian Vigenin."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will begin by saying that today's hearing proves again the Prime Minister's commitment to informing the majority not to protect the Prime Minister from the opposition. We, on the subject of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, do not think we have ever heard of the previous prime minister. If I'm not mistaken, it wasn't even in the Chamber when the Neighborhood Treaty was ratified. From this point of view, this openness of politics is important, but I address colleagues from GERB first. It seems to me that this is a topic on which we should try to protect political consensus and not try to use it for internal policy purposes. We, as the brightest opposition for four years in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, have never allowed ourselves to do so and have never allowed ourselves to use the theme of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to attack the government. This only happened towards the end of the government when it became clear that you were unable to implement the policy you have committed to. The very wording of the hearing today speaks enough about what your intentions were and you have shown it with your speeches. For the consequences, a word that is charged with a negative meaning, not for the results, not for the prospects, not for the consequences, and it seems to me that here, speaking of consensus, you should try and contribute to the unblocking of this process, which you have not dealt with, and try as a political formation to work with your political partners in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, because today's opposition in the Republic of Northern Macedonia is the biggest opponent to normalising relations between the two countries and in this case the Prime Minister is making efforts that I hope you will also support. By the way, speaking of the commitments made by the Council of Ministers, I just want to remind you that our National Assembly That never happened, by the way. We support efforts to bet on a new approach in relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, however, a new approach based on the consensus so far and the efforts currently being made are not for themselves, at least that is how we understand it, and these are efforts to contribute to difficult issues being resolved. Our understanding is that we do not put one as a priority ahead of the other, and these are two processes that are going parallel and that the expansion of relations, sectoral cooperation, the concrete results that we want to see, are aimed at creating a positive atmosphere that will allow the other issues to be removed, to come to solutions that will not just be adopted at political level, but by citizens on both sides of the border. We hope that this approach will deliver concrete results. Of course, in a week, in ten days.. this is a beginning that has yet to be developed. I also welcome the commitment to Clapalo, for almost eight years now and I personally deal with this issue. There is no foreign minister or regional one who has not committed himself to these eight years and nothing has happened to them. I hope, Prime Minister, that if we really manage to end this year, it will be one of the specific things that will contribute to expanding the contacts of people on both sides of the border. A few words about this, though, Mr. Prime Minister, and the Foreign Minister, and the team that will be involved and engaged more directly with this process, to make a little more effort to engage all who are leaders of opinion on this topic, not only at political level, but also the scientific institutes, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, NGOs, to gain additional public support for the efforts you are making to explain... Once again, what we are doing is not a retreat from consensus, but, on the contrary, an enormous effort, as you say, that consensus on this subject should be implemented in practice. I also hope that you will not leave without consequences and the campaigns that continue to develop internationally, and in the European Union, there are ways to counter this, to engage us in an even more active clarification of the Bulgarian positions, because if we do not, these efforts that we are making in bilateral terms will not be able to find enough support at European and I would also say at international level. One more thing, I think that during the Bulgarian Presidency an agreement was reached,... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ... commitments have also been made by the European Union to support, including financial, joint projects here in the region, including bilateral ones. Unfortunately, most of them stayed on paper. I hope that you can now step on them, on these commitments already made, in order to contribute to the realization with European support for these initiatives. Finally, let me say that there are forces, of course, that do not want the relations between the two sides to normalise, do not want the difficult issues to be resolved, but we should not give the tribune here in the National Assembly or in the efforts we make not to use these forces to motivate certain political points of view to this process. On the contrary, they should be, on the one hand, neglected, not given the tribune and try to bring the positive things to the fore. Finally, I say that it is worth it here, not today, but perhaps in the committees that will commit themselves to control over this whole process, the National Assembly to have an active role, to try to support this process, which began at government level, to try to work out even a joint programme between the two Parliaments of Bulgaria and Northern Macedonia, and to activate cooperation not only on the external committees, for example, and the Committee on European Affairs, but also on the sectoral committees of both Parliaments to come with positive news to enable, and we as MPs in these contacts to put the difficult issues. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u104	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Two and a half minutes above the time limit. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, for the attitude on behalf of the There is such a people.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u105	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Members! Firstly, Prime Minister, thank you for being here, not so much to join the general choir of thanks, but simply because the comparison between you and the Prime Minister of GERB, who did not bother to step into this room at all, is obvious. At the time, a Voivod from Ruse, a Macedonian from Ruse, spoke on the topic with Macedonia. Macedonia is extremely sensitive to the Bulgarian people because of our historical destiny and this cannot be ignored. The fact is that the relationship between the two countries was to the point of freezing, the fact is that our opinion in the European Union was not well explained by the previous rulers, the fact is that all this is extremely negative and puts you in a very difficult situation from now on, so any efforts in this direction should be supported. We believe that strengthening economic ties, cultural ties, if you will, and human relations between the two countries will really lead to a drop in tension. On the other hand, because of the whole history and the sacrifices we have given and because of the historical truth, we, as you very well know, as your coalition partner, will hold to have legal guarantees to guarantee the rights of the Bulgarians, the Bulgarian citizens, the citizens of Northern Macedonia with Bulgarian self-awareness in this country. For us at the moment, such a guarantee is the introduction of Bulgarians as a country nation in the Macedonian Constitution, and we believe that this is something that must happen before we unblock their process of accession to the European Union. We are also convinced that these two processes must go parallel. The fixation in just one or the other is not working and perhaps this is the good thing about the current ruling coalition that we are going in the same direction and we have different accents as priorities, but nevertheless we are going in the same direction, we are having a dialogue and we are convinced that in the end, very soon the results will be different without giving up on the Bulgarian national interests. I just want to finish with something.. as strange as it may sound, here some of the attendees invited you and it didn't matter what you say, because what Mr. Mitov said on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB is written and printed, and this is obviously done before you say anything. [[Applause from IHN and "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u106	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Bulgaria. Hristo Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u107	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Members, distinguished guests, I see that a large group of young people have entered! I don't know, we want you to report results, seeing how much time you spend here, I don't know when you'll produce them, but thank you for your time. The subject is extremely important, we did not ask questions not because we do not appreciate it as important, but because we realize that after all these years in which concrete results cannot be realized, the expectation that in a few weeks you will be able to account for such is undoubtedly perhaps a really small game with the conjuncture. We have an extremely complex situation in which decades are entangled, if not centuries of problems involving the fates and emotions of many people. We have a situation where, of course, we also have forces that do not want progress. These forces are not just on both sides of the border, they are geopolitical players. Because when we are talking about the policy of the areas of influence and the attempt to create such exclusive zones today with regard to Ukraine, we must make it absolutely clear that both the genesis of the Macedonian problem and its present dimensions are part of this same policy and these same interventions of these players. We need to give a clear account of something that I would like to see as an emphasis that there is no way for us to talk about common history and about where we have divided up and how we have separated, without making an assessment and sanctifying what happened in the 1930s and 1950s, without making efforts on both sides to reveal all the archives, recognition from both sides for the violent actions that have been carried out. This also concerns Bulgaria, not only Macedonia. This truth, if not revealed, we have no way of answering the question: how did this state of affairs arise, how did this state of affairs come about? When we talk about the fact that Bulgaria's position is looking for one thing that may be a little difficult to move in the language of political pragmatism and political technology. We really need to look into the eyes of all this complex history and violent action by totalitarian regimes on both sides of the border. It's not gonna work anyway. You, Mr. Prime Minister, have an extremely complex task, including something that we from the "Democratic Bulgaria" will always focus on. Yes, Bulgaria must find a way to solve these problems before giving the green light for Macedonia's accession to the European Union, but also with full awareness that the European Union and Macedonia's accession to it is not just some reward, but it is part of the solution. We must find a way for European membership, the pre-accession process, including negotiating preparations, to be the platform that will enable us to look for a solution. By the way, we should do it in a way that does not pour water into the mill of anti-Bulgarian propaganda. Because we see that the Bulgarian position is not simply poorly explained in Europe and in Brussels, we are losing the war to explain our position in Skopje and in Northern Macedonia to the people we really want to be seen as friends. In this sense, Mr. Prime Minister, I think that your approach, which some people think I understand the logic of this, does not criticize it, perhaps too optimistic and too smiling, and your visit, which has been criticised to choose you to go there, perhaps contains something that is worth all of us to support, an attempt really to approach It's a complicated situation. In Bulgaria there is a high degree of consensus regarding the objectives we set. One thing I would also like to highlight is that there is a wide toolbox that is known in the theory of international relations as a soft force. Bulgaria has much to do to activate this type of instruments, not only bilateral negotiations, not just diplomacy and formal diplomatic talks, the economy and connectivity on which you place emphasis, but also topics related to the cultural exchange, Bulgaria's information presence in Macedonia. This also requires a real budget. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] When we discuss the budget for culture here, we should view it not just as something that is of the interest of a separate sector in the Bulgarian society, but as a tool for politics and including such a soft force in relation to the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Thank you for being here. I hope that we will all be able to make progress together best on this subject. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u109	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister! Since the Macedonian question has always been multilateral in it, unfortunately, it was not only Bulgaria, and because, unfortunately, over the years back the last, say, 110 years, our country has not shown high political and diplomatic culture, we suffer a series of short-sighted, harmful and traitorous actions of the Bulgarian political elite 100 years back. From this point of view, I would like to focus on four things that actually come out as a conclusion after what has been done here, and by observing the cabinet's actions in the last few weeks, which, in relation to the newly born Bulgarian-Macedonian relations, are actually active, and in what direction this activity will develop, we have yet to see. Firstly, since this is a multilateral issue, I would like to point out the role of our so-called partners in the European Union. Even the previous mentioned that we have a problem explaining to them our position, which I fully agree with him, because in conversations with our so-called partners sometimes I get the impression that our representatives do not go to talks, but to a report or an briefing. I hope this impression will be refuted by the subsequent moves of the government, because ultimately Bulgaria is a sovereign member of the European Union and we should use our membership there for our benefit, not to receive instructions and not to give reports and in return to receive some small promises as European funding for the railway network. Secondly, relations with Macedonia in Skopje should not be seen as only economic or political. They are related to me and I pointed it out in the question just now, which I asked with a continuing historical forgery and a continuing repression over the Bulgarian population in Macedonia, which is over a million and a half. A large part of it at the moment, unfortunately, has a rather hazy self-consciousness, but its origins and roots are Bulgarian anyway, and we must not stop repeating that thing. Above all, and first of all, we must repeat this to our partners in the European Union so that they know what the truth is in our view. Then we have to repeat it to our partners on the other side of the border. Because if we don't say it, there's no one else to say it, you know? It's just that if we don't protect our historical truth, no one else will do it for us. This means that we must be absolutely adamant in defending the Bulgarian rights in Macedonia and the Bulgarian population there. We can't even step an inch back. Thirdly, the Macedonian question will find its solution here in Sofia. It has always been a function of the actions of the Bulgarian responsible factors. Bulgaria's biggest geopolitical defeat in the 20th century is the creation of the Macedonian nation and its recognition in 1945 since the ruling Bulgarian Communist Party. And to this day, we are reminded of that. Here is the time to make a remark by our Prime Minister, who is obviously inexperienced in relations still and especially perhaps because there is no historical culture.. he mentioned a line which can be used and will be used in my opinion, to our regret, with a very negative shade in terms of fascists, Bulgarians, fascist regime and so on. That was very vaguely mentioned. I am sure that the Prime Minister has done it with good feelings, but how it has been interpreted, how it is perceived and how it will be interpreted from now on in time, yet to be seen. Our Macedonian partners are very clever in propaganda. It has been pointed out by others here before me that they have and continue to have very serious propaganda in the European Union and beyond the Ocean, until we have one. Because we, from the past century, believe that as we are right and as the truth is on our side, then everyone knows it. No, that's not true, unfortunately. So we have to be the ones to do what we need to do so that our historical truth can be seen by everyone out there. There is something else about the economy and transport schemes, which is, of course, not to be underestimated, and it is that we are practically the ones behind in the development of transport connections. The checkpoint was completed by a Macedonian country in Ljubcho Georgievski in 2001. On our side there are 13 km real meadows. The road from Saparevo, where it ends, to the Macedonian border, is not even black; there are only trucks of forest that cut wood. And that's our problem, we had to do it, we didn't do it. It's the same thing with the railroad to the border. It is our commitment to complete it 2027 according to the 2017 Memorandum, and the Macedonians have signed 2025, which means that if they complete it, we will wait two years after that to do our work. It's like they have more interest in the relationship between the two sides than we do, and we say the opposite. What are we supposed to believe? The words or the deeds? The same thing applies even more to the road connection, because the railway line is at least spoken of, and the highway?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We have no highway between Bulgaria and Macedonia, and all the other countries around us are connected in this way. Finally, because my time is up and I don't want to prolong it too much, I want to point out the following, and it must be very carefully known by each of us. Macedonia's entry into the European Union in any unreformed form will be the second geopolitical disaster for us Bulgarians after that in 1944 and the creation of the Macedonian nation. Because, compatriots, Macedonian so-called language will become one of the official languages of the European Union, there will be official Bulgarian-Macedonian translations and they will already be with the notary certification of the European Union, that is, a cominternist forgery, as is the creation of the Macedonian language and the Macedonian nation, will receive a modern Euro-Atlantic notary verification. I don't think that's normal. We are the ones who need to do everything we need to do using the scientific potential of our nation and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Institute for Bulgarian Language and the Institute of Historical Studies to do what is necessary to prevent this from happening. We have time, we are warned, we warn one another, and if we actually approach ourselves as a nationally responsible political elite, and not as those who back in time betrayed the Bulgarian national interest, we will not allow it. At least for us from ARCHER, I can be firm about this, we will do whatever is necessary not to happen. I very much hope that everyone here in this House is thinking about this and we need to think absolutely identically, starting from the MPs and getting to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u110	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. We have thus exhausted item 1 of the agenda for today, namely the Prime Minister's hearing. I'm calling a break till 11:00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We resume today's regular session. Since we have already entered the last three hours of the Friday sitting, we start with a third point: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u112	Mr. President, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that there were some official guests just now, and I suppose they were students, and I have no idea, but to congratulate you on letting them go. In this regard, I would like to ask you to revoke the order that prohibits external visitors from entering the National Assembly building. I believe that what we have seen today is a good initiative, and that your order may be revoked as of next week, at least because I think that nothing else gives us more than to limit people. It guarantees absolutely nothing and no health security gives anyone. Moreover, the order in question limits the possibility, purely operational, for people who would help us in our legislative work as MPs. I believe that this would be a good act on your part if the order in question were to be revoked and proceed to what we have seen today, to have outside visitors. And there's nothing to be afraid of, on the contrary, it's an extremely good sign from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. I'll review the warrant. I'll think about it. Please, Members, every question does not need to be submitted to plenary. My office is always open. Welcome to any matter that you think is really relevant to the work of the National Assembly, but we do not need to discuss everything in plenary. We start with: Parliamentary control. First of all, I would like to inform you of questions and questions received about the period from 21 January 2022 to 27 January 2022. Written answers are received from: - Minister Aleksandar Nikolov on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Asen Vassilev on a question from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova and a question from the National Representative Hristo Gabzhev; - Minister Asena Serbenova on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Taslakov, to a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmedov, to a question from the National Representative Elisaveta Belobradova, to a question from the National Representative Stoyan Taslakov; - Minister Atanas Atanasov on a question from the National Representative Zarko Marinov; - Minister Boyko Rashkov of 10 questions by the National Representative Hristo Terziyski, to a question by the National Representative Alexander Ivanov, to a question by the National Representative Elisaveta Belobradova, to 2 questions by the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and 3 questions by the National Representative Hristo Terziyski; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Environment and Water Borislav Sandov on a question from the National Representative Vladislav Panev, on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and on a question from the National Representative Plamen Abrovski; - Minister Georgi Gokov on a question from the MP Elisaveta Belobradova; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadzhov on a question from the MPs Aleksandar Dunchev, Tsvetelina Zarkin, Miroslava Petrova and Zornitsa Stratieva, to a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov, to a question from the National Representative Ivo Ruschev, to a question from the National Representative Mladen Shishkov and to a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister Ivan Ivanov to a question from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev, to a question from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva, to a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev, to 6 questions from the National Representative Plamen Abrovski; - Minister Nadezhda Yordanova on a question from the National Representative Hristo Terziyski; - Minister Nikolay Denkov on a question from the MP Elisaveta Belobradova; - Minister Nikolay Subev on 2 questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev. We'll start with parliamentary control. First of all, the questions to Borislav Sandov, Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy and Minister for Environment and Water, who will answer a question and 5 questions. First of all, the question by the National Representative Stefan Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u114	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister. I am doing the following procedure because I have asked Minister Bojanov a question as Minister of Electronic Governance on the activities of............................................................................................... He correctly returned my reply that he could not answer me, since the Ministry of Transport is responsible for the services of the Ministry of Transport. Accordingly, I asked the Minister of Transport, who returned it to me and said that this should be a question to the Minister of Electronic Governance. Now I understand that changes in the rules of procedure and legislation are taking place, so I understand in this direction. My request is, if you can specify to whom is the service at the moment, so that I can know to whom to ask the question, and if the question is to one of these two ministers, do not return it to me, that it has already been asked once. So, if we could just sort this thing out in the meantime, just so I know where to ask my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u115	Thank you, Mr. Gadget, for bringing my attention to this case. I'll check it out. As I said, my office is always open to discuss such things, they don't have to go through the room. We move on to the questioning of Stefan Ivanov Shilev about regulatory gaps, making it difficult to achieve the standards of air quality. Here you go, Mr. Shilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u116	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Environment and Water. Atmospheric air quality is undoubtedly one of the important factors for protecting the environment and protecting human health. Analyses show that the main reason for the deterioration of the quality of the atmospheric air is domestic heating and to a lesser extent transport. Minister, in a series of statements you assure that the problem of protecting KAV in the settlements will be a priority for you. The reason for this is also that the state is condemned by the Court of Justice of the European Union for non-compliance with the norms. In addition, the Bulgarian court obliges the municipalities of Sofia and Plovdiv to take adequate measures to improve air quality and gives a period of 12 months, which is already running. In implementing the measures, however, local authorities face a number of challenges beyond their competence and powers. For example, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy may limit social benefits given in the form of solid fuel, but it does not. The Ministry of Agriculture refuses to introduce a ban on the placing of wood with high humidity and has no standard for wood, although this is the second measure with the greatest contribution to reducing the emissions of fine particulate matter as defined in the National Air Quality Programme until 2024. Last but not least, the Ministry of Environment and Water has not prepared Guidelines for the Implementation of Low Emissions Zones, a very important document without which the implementation of the latter would be significantly difficult. In this regard, my question to you is: How will municipalities achieve the regulatory requirements for air quality when many of the instruments for this are missing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u117	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Here you are, Mr. Sandov, for an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u118	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shilev, in answer to your question, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Environment and Water has purposely led a policy to create instruments and implement measures at national level which aim to assist municipal authorities in fulfilling their obligation to achieve the required air quality. However, first of all, it must be clear that national legislation is fully in line with European legislation. The criminal procedure you are talking about is regarding the implementation of the legislation and not the harmonisation of the Bulgarian legislation with the European legislation. In addition, in recent years, actions have been taken to create a regulatory basis for reducing emissions from the two sectors that you are talking about, which are the biggest contribution to heating and transport, which are identified in municipal programmes as having the greatest contribution, precisely as I said, domestic heating and road transport. In this sense, it is not correct to talk about the absence of tools for work. What was undertaken at national level by the MoEW in relation to the regulatory base. For addressing the problem of fine particulate matter of 10 micrograms was adopted by Decision No 334 of 7 June 2019 of the Council of Ministers National Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality, which is from 2018 to 2024, that is to say we are within it. Currently, the following measures are implemented by the Programme: the quality requirements for solid fuels are introduced for coal and briquettes used for domestic heating by the population. The legal basis for these requirements is in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on Air Cleanliness, adopted since 2019. The specific requirements have been introduced by Decree No 22 of the Council of Ministers of 17 February 2020. "Description of the requirements for the quality of solid fuels used for domestic heating, the conditions, order and manner of their control. Second place. In addition, the Law gives the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests reason to adopt a Regulation on the requirements and control of wood used for domestic heating. This was adopted as No 6 in 2019, namely Regulation No 6 on requirements and control of wood used for domestic heating. It is correct that the issues relating to this legislative document be addressed, of course, to the ministry concerned. Third, the amendments of 2019 to the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act extended the powers of the municipalities with regard to the introduction of low emission zones. The changes created the possibility of local authorities to adopt measures to limit the use of certain types of fuels or heating appliances, to create low emission areas for harmful substances throughout the municipality or part of it, to restrict the movement of road vehicles or certain categories of road vehicles. Low emission zones are also used in some Member States of the European Union, precisely at the level of local self-government, but there are no common national or European rules established in this direction. This issue is within the competence of the local authorities. As far as activities of a different nature are concerned, under conditions specific to each municipality, and in the absence of European legislation, it is necessary that the municipal authorities themselves take the designated actions. Such, by the way, have already been undertaken, for example, by Sofia Municipality, but the process is not complete. The mayor of Sofia Municipality, Mrs. Fandakova, assured me that it is being worked on to have an area centre; an external centre area, but for example, in meeting with the representatives of the student councils they asked me to cooperate for this in Sofia Municipality to possibly be included in the area of a student town. However, the Ministry assists municipalities by providing means to implement measures to improve air quality. Under the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 "2020," which you know should end at the end of 2023 as implementation of the activities, 122 million are provided for measures for domestic heating and development of municipal programs, as well as 500 million for public transport. During the next programming period 2021, 2027 will be allocated if, of course, the Programme receives the notification from the European Commission and we conclude with the co-ordination process, about 750 million. lv. to improve the quality of the atmospheric air. A new mechanism, which is planned to be launched soon, is foreseen by national funds 47 million, and also if the National Assembly approves the draft budget, which I hope will be submitted by the Government in the coming days by the Council of Ministers, there will be an additional 30 million national funds for measures relating to the protection of air cleanliness through the Environmental Management Organisation. On your part, it will only require an increase in the cost ceiling of the PPOOS in order for us to be able to spend these funds in this direction. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that, if necessary by the Ministry of Environment and Water and together with other competent departments, further steps will be taken to improve the regulatory base, as well as to better implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u119	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you are, Mr. Shilev, you are entitled to two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u120	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Just one comment. First of all, what I have told you is that there is a bit of a mix-up between the different ministries, and you know very well that the National Association of Municipalities itself derives this disadvantage from the foreground. On the other hand, in the last two and a half terms the municipality of Plovdiv has advanced a lot in the fight against air pollution. In 2009 out of 165 out of the mid-day norm we already have as of last year, I think there are 47, not yet verified, which makes 130 days less, which is more than 90% reduction in all days, which should be reduced to 35. In other words, some 9,2% of these days or 13 days remain, but these days are the most difficult to reduce, because most measures have already been taken and much more comprehensive measures are needed both on areas and on point sources in order to achieve the real legacy goal of 35 days exceeding the year. Finally, the standard for the protection of the health of the population has been achieved up to 40 micrograms per cube. Mm, which is actually very good, and in recent years it's been spinning around 39. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u121	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. You have the floor, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shilev, thank you for these details. It is indeed a fact that in the last year we see a decrease in values both in the averages for the whole year and in the number of excesses as days of the year. But I want to assure you of something else. Examples from Europe show that local authorities can take more serious measures, for example in Krakow in Poland, which we know is most dependent on coal, local authorities have adopted a decision prohibiting the use of coal for households, heating and coal in general throughout the region. So in the case of certain more continuing and especially after the expected negative decision by the Luxembourg court, we may also need to proceed with more drastic measures. I am in communication with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the fact that aid in the form of coal and wood should be terminated as long as they deepen the problem. But let me assure you of something else, as you said about Plovdiv Municipality, and in the next question I will ask you because I have a question from your colleague Mrs. Kanazireva regarding careers in the area. For Sofia is about 30% after analysis, particulate pollution and is actually caused outside of Sofia Municipality. These are cross-border pollution, as well as pollution coming from neighbouring municipalities, especially from Pernik, so we really need to work not only locally but at national level with certain measures to achieve certain results. Besides, we have to have a holistic approach. It is a fact that the found mostly particulate pollution of the atmospheric air comes from domestic heating and transport, but serious emitters are also certain industrial activities, industrial enterprises, certain careers that are located near the major cities, and cross-border pollution from neighbouring countries, mostly from Northern Macedonia and Serbia, due to the natural transfer of particles that comes with the traditional wind from these countries to Bulgaria. So we really need to apply a holistic approach and evaluate all processes and through this prism in order to achieve good air quality, which has a direct effect on public health as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like to express your attitude, Mr. Shilev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u124	Mr. Minister, thank you for your tunic and for your clarification. I really think that a working meeting organised by you as Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy with the relevant ministers concerned with the issue of air quality would be a great approach and indeed at regional level should be the approach of air quality management and my opinion is the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u125	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. We move on to the second question to Borislav Sandov, who is one of the MPs Zornitsa Stratieva and Alexander Dunchev on poaching activities over wild goats in the National Park. Here you go, Mrs. Stratieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, with the National Representative Alexander Dunchev from "We are continuing the Change" on 31 October 2021 through media sources we have been informed of crimes committed under art. Art. 278d. 237 of the Penal Code, which is expressed in poaching hunting of wild goats, which were shot by a moving helicopter on the territory of the National Park of Central Balkan. The animals shot and beheaded in the park are by the endangered subspecies of Balkan wild goat, which is included in Appendix 3 of the Biodiversity Act and Resolution No 6 of the Standing Committee of the Bern Convention. The use of a helicopter in the execution of the act, of the crime poaching is a criminological novelty for the territory of Bulgaria and if left without consequences, there is a danger that it will become a mass practice. So far there are data on the participation of a Bulgarian citizen in the poaching hunt of wild goat with the help of a helicopter on 7 November 2008, but outside the territory of Bulgaria in Uzbekistan. Until now, a statement on the case has been made only by the District Prosecutor's Office of Stara Zagora, as well as confirmation from the press office of the Ministry of Environment and Water to journalists, but it is not known whether an investigation is being conducted and at what stage it is. In this connection with the People's Representative from "We are continuing the Change" Alexander Dunchev we ask you to inform us: what actions have been taken by the Ministry of Environment and Water and in particular by the Directorate of the National Park "Central Balkan" or by the Regional Inspectorate of Environment and Water "Stara Zagora," on the case at present, and in particular whether an administrative criminal procedure is being conducted by the Directorate of the National Park "Central Balkan" for violation of the regime of the Management Plan of the protected territory, which constitutes an administrative infringement under art. 81, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Protected Areas, or of the organizer of the hunting, which is a violation of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Protected Areas? If an administrative criminal procedure has been initiated, has the property of the helicopter in question been established from which the wild goats were shot? Who are the perpetrators of the crime or aide, and what measures do you plan to prevent such cases of poaching in national parks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Stratieva, Mr. Dunchev, I think he's gone! Indeed, on 28 October 2021, on the territory of the National Park of Central Balkan, a park section of the National Park was found at 13.50 pm, a decapitated wild goat, which was partially skinned in the upper part of the troupe. During his tour, the employee discovers at 2 p.m. and the second corpse of a wild goat, which is in the same condition. At 2:15 p.m., about 300 meters from the corpse of the second goat, smoke signals were observed periodically, and at 14.20 p.m., a helicopter lands at the site of the smoke signals, in which two people find themselves wearing cloaking clothes and scarves to the persons carrying the heads and parts of the skin of the animals killed, after which the helicopter takes off. At 2:35 a.m. again from the southeast, the helicopter arrives, once again lands, and a man without luggage gets into it. The employee of the National Park with his mobile phone takes pictures of the helicopter and the corpses of the killed animals and wild goats and the place where the landing took place. The officer reports on the case in the Parking Department......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's what the Ministry said. The following day the investigating authorities in the case called the Director, and on 30 October 2021, Saturday, the director and employees of the Park with the Police Department of Kazanlak, and DANS Stara Zagora, carried out a field check. Investigative officers have looked at the bodies of the animals, taken samples and compiled a protocol. At the Police Department, Kazanlak has been brought up in pre-trial proceedings under No ZM-1466 of 2021 under art. 237 of the Penal Code and a case has been initiated in the district prosecutor's office in the town of Stara Zagora, a territorial unit of Kazanlak with No 10384 since 2021. No administrative criminal procedure is conducted in the Directorate of the National Park "Central Balkan" because according to art. 33, para. 1 of the Penal Code, where criminal investigation by the authorities of the prosecution is initiated by an act, administrative criminal proceedings shall not be initiated. But this is where I open a clamp. There may be another production within the meaning of which we have currently formed it, even though the prosecution has not completed its verification of the destruction of parts of the Natura 2000 site and natural landmark of the Melnik Pyramids, RIEW Blagoevgrad, has formed another administrative file. It is conducted as an administrative criminal procedure, but not within the meaning of the Criminal Code, but within the meaning of the Criminal Code. The National Park Directorate Central Balkan is currently lacking information about the identity of the perpetrators of the crime and the persons who helped them and the ownership of the helicopter. As I detect on social networks statements that such information is available, I should say that it is classified and I do not have access to it. I wish I had it, and especially people who expect me to take action should know that they need to provide me with this information so that I can take action if we know who the perpetrators are. At this stage of the prosecution and the police department we do not have that information. An operational scheme for controlling and protecting and countering hunting poaching has been established and is implemented, with employees from other park areas being redirected to support security at certain times of the year. The organizing of meetings with the tenants and owners of cabins in the territory of Central Balkan, the preparation of warning protocols in order not to be allowed in the huts persons poaching and carrying hunting weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u129	Thank you, Mr. Sandov, for your comprehensive response. Is there a wish for a line? Mr. Dunchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! For such cases of poaching animals, colleagues from the forest system and hunters know about them daily and in huge quantities. We know that forest workers, like eco-inspectors and park rangers, are sometimes under pressure, and in other cases they are almost deprived of what to do, and that is why we are looking for all sorts of ways to harness civil society and hunters who care about animals and are also able to help. In the forests, we have created electronic systems with which citizens can send signals and, at the moment of poaching, the whole transparency system is to be activated immediately. And my supplementary question to you is: what measures will you take to make it possible for citizens, hunters, park visitors to also submit instant transparent signals to be reported in a transparent manner so that with this transparency we can compensate the pressure on civil servants and therefore generate much more control in these protected areas?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u131	Thank you, Mr. Dunchev. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dunchev, such additional measures are needed both in terms of technical provision, personnel, if you want even materially the employees, and in terms of improving and brightening the activities of these directorates, and their relationship with other institutions. In this regard, the app you are talking about, as an interactive tool, will look for a way to be better integrated into the Ministry's system so that our employees can also act more adequately and more quickly on such signals. I'm shocked, ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible for someone in National Park to go and shoot animals out of a helicopter?! It's just that I can't find anything... Maybe that's my understanding, but what's the pleasure of going by helicopter to a National Park where animals aren't normally subjected to some kind of pressure, and therefore they probably didn't even run off to shoot those animals and then take a trophy out of them?! I don't get it! But something that is important: Rangers to national parks receive extremely low remuneration. In 2020, during the wage indexing in the structures of the Ministry of Finance, only national parks were not indexed, and your attention in the budget, and with the agreement of the Ministry of Finance, we will seek this indexing because it was unfair for only these three national parks to remain without such indexing. I must confess to you that if this indexing does not happen and remain at this level, it may be that a ranger in a national park that fights poachers gets less reward than a hygienist in the Ministry of Environment and Water here in the central administration. I think this is extremely inadequate. I hope that you will support in this part the draft budget for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u133	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. We move on to the third issue, which is from the National Representative Victoria Vasileva, concerning an illegal dump on the territory of the municipality of Radomir. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, the problem with unregulated landfills is not from today and yesterday. Unfortunately, it has been for many years and is growing more and more. I am traveling around the country a great deal, and frankly I am beginning to think that Bulgaria is really starting to become a huge dump, which is a huge problem not only for the Ministry, because most of these problems are actually generated by the local government itself and by the carelessness of a huge part of the mayors. The specific question concerns the territory of the municipality of Radomir in the locality of the Vrabna warehouses. The question is after the village of Stefanovo and the village of Dolni Rakovets. In the direction of the village of Condofrey there is an unregulated dump, which is huge in size and territory. It dumps junk of all kinds of household, construction and dangerous. What is perplexing is why citizens are explicitly instructed by officials to transport the waste themselves, with the assurance that this is the mayor's order, which, of course, no one has seen. Also, according to information from citizens on the territory of the town of Radomir, almost in the very center of the city, namely the former military unit, is located another unregulated landfill. My question is: will you order a detailed check of the site for the buried garbage in the military unit in the town of Radomir? My second question is: what are your intentions to remove unregulated landfills located in the municipality of Radomir? Let me just say that I've also applied photos of the dump in question to my question. [[Shows them.]] I suppose you saw them, but a little later I'll explain why I'm showing them because they're also dealing with an important problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u136	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ms. Vasileva, following an extraordinary inspection of experts from the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Water, on 1 January an on-site inspection was carried out jointly with a representative of the municipality of Radomir. This is also the result of your question. It has been found that the existing unregulated landfill is located on the site of the Vulnerable warehouses, as you described it, to the left of the road, after passing through the village of Stefanovo and after the guide sign for the village of Dolni Rakovets, towards the village of Condofrey. To the dump leads an old asphalt road towards the village of Dolni Rakovets. Two black roads are also available from the object concerned leading to other settlements. On an area of three acres are accumulated large piles of mixed household waste, construction waste, cut shrub vegetation, which are mixed with sand of similar material with a beige-gray color resembling stone flour. The illegal dump is not surrounded, there are no ban signs for waste disposal. At the beginning of the asphalt road two piles of described sandlike material were poured out that restrict access to the site. Black roads have free access. At the dump there are traces of heavy machinery used to nudge waste and thaw. The mayor of Radomir Municipality has been given a prescription for cleaning the illegal landfill with a deadline of 25 February. After the deadline expires, RIEW Sofia will carry out subsequent controls. In the event of non-compliance with this prescription administrative criminal action will be taken. As regards your second question, I inform you that according to art. 19th para. 3, p. 15 of the Waste Management Act The mayor of the municipality is responsible for preventing the disposal of waste in unauthorized sites and/or the creation of illegal landfills and the organisation of their cleaning. The Ministry of Environment and Water reacts to all signals of unauthorised disposal, including on the territory of the municipality of Radomir, through regional environmental and water inspections. They shall prescribe the cleaning of contaminated terrains within a short period of execution and administrative criminal proceedings shall be formed upon detection of non-compliance. Here I will add the following: very often it is known who is doing this and if the municipality does not clean a landfill, it stimulates people if it is closer and easier to dump there. Secondly, which is more unpleasant, but of course this is the competence of investigative bodies, sometimes the municipalities themselves do not only allow, but carry out similar actions in order to reduce the charges that would cost them the deposit in regional depots or also reduce the costs of transport. These are serious violations of nature, and if you have such signals, please pass them to me and I, respectively, in sync with the competent authorities, will perform not only checks, but will also take further action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u137	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Would you like a line? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u138	Thank you. What I'm about to say is that they are not supplementary questions, but perhaps I should express a direct attitude towards the answer and add some additional information. When I received this signal, to my desire for the applicants, so to call them, to take pictures of the relevant landfill, people definitely refused because they were terrified of the fact that someone might see them and thus have a repression against them by the mayor of Radomir. Just to remind you that the mayor of Radomir is the same man who years ago took hundreds of thousands of levs to afforestate some slopes with forest. A year and a half later, at the time of a journalistic investigation, where, naturally, there was no forest, but they were naked meadows, to the question of where the forest is, he said: "The Rabbits ate it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. We move on to the next question to Borislav Sandov, who is from the National Representative Dani Kanazireva on stopping career activity in the village of Belashtitsa, Rodopi municipality, Plovdiv district. Here you are, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u140	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Although career activity concerns the municipality of Rodopi, Plovdiv district, I am sure that this problem exists in many other places. As a district governor, I had a very serious study of the problem, I had not one meeting with the initiative committee and with the residents of the settlements. Specific actions were taken and a decision was taken to put an end to the activities of the two quarries. One has already expired at the present time, and the other is due next Thursday. You are aware, by the way, the most important factology I have presented to you very thoroughly in four pages and I am glad that you were actually in Plovdiv district yesterday and raised this topic. The question is from now on not to allow the continuation of these careers and therefore to fulfil their re-cultivation obligations. I will refer only to two main points, namely: the presence of karst springs, which we have actually established by my order and following an investigation of the area, they are from 1967, but were subsequently included in the water supply system of the village of Belashtitsa at my request. The same are threatened with extinction, given their nature, by explosive activities. From then on, I insisted that sanitary zones be designed, and I have confidence that they fall into Belt II, which categorically prohibits career activity. Here is the most important moment, not to turn out at some point that are in Belt III and respectively to bypass this text. It's all in the hands of the Swimming Directorate, which is for you, and therefore the VAC to step up action, i.e. to speed up the pace and do their job faster. Secondly, there are several landslides nearby, one of which is active. Since we were just talking about violations, from here on out of the stands, I'm taking advantage of giving you one of those signals. On one of the careers of........................................................................................................ My request and my signal to you are: to refer accordingly to the competent authorities for the infringement committed and to impose not only criminal sanctions but to take the relevant activities to end the infringement. My specific question to you is, of course, it is mainly to the Minister of Energy: what measures have you taken and you will take, as well as the Regional Inspectorate of Environment and Waters, respectively, Plovdiv? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u142	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kanazireva, as you pointed out in fact, there are really two careers. One expired on a concession contract over the past year, the other expired on the contract next week. And as far as at least one year in advance has to be carried out the extension procedure, and this has not happened and there is no way to happen within the next week, my opinion and reading the question is that this will run out of work due to these concessions. I really met yesterday with the governor and the Initiative Committee of Belashtitsa and I am familiar with all those signals that they have given over the years, as well as with the file that is held at the Swimming Directorate Plovdiv. I have, of course, the prepared answer, but it's much longer. To present to you all things, I will rather tell you the following: from today, with today's date, a new director of the Swimming Directorate of Plovdiv has been appointed. One of his first tasks is to examine precisely the part with the sanitary and security zones of the village of Belashtitsa, so that it can move the file and establish whether they fall into this area and if they fall, whether this could not be deterring any such activities with any other concession or in any other way. I just mentioned something that is also important to note. Because I know the area well and this northern collar of the Rhodopes, there is a specific wind there, which, fortunately, during the summer, slightly cools in the low part, and on the very slopes it warms for the rest of it, the Gornjak, the low man, has different names for this local wind. There is no way there will be no transfer of particulate matter from both careers in all this time to the city of Plovdiv, especially if they work in some cases outside the standard working hours because we know about such cases. So I give part of the problem of pollution to the city of Plovdiv and to this. And I cannot understand why my predecessors have never considered this type of background pollution when talking about the city of Plovdiv! Otherwise, only to complete the exam procedures have been conducted. In the course of the procedures under Chapter VI of the Environmental Protection Act, the competent authority requires opinions from other competent authorities: from the At present, the Director of RIEW Plovdiv has not issued individual administrative acts authorising the implementation of activities concerning the extension of the locality of Bellashtitsa and the extension of the concession for the extraction of For the other concession, because it hasn't been exhausted, maybe I don't have any information to present to you, and, no, here I have. In relation to the activities of European roads.. this is the other career. Belashtitsa................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For me, a key issue will be from here on, as far as the 50th year has already been produced there, I think that the beginning of the activities related to Belashtitsa's career is from exactly 50 years ago and, as I recall, it is also explicitly stated that certain natural resources should not be exploited in a particular place for more than 50 years. However, in my opinion, the question is closed anyway and it is only necessary to examine whether there are violations of the use of the quarry for the purpose of extracting material or transporting material from it by the concessionaire who has expired the concession contract. Including in a conversation with the governor, I have asked that certain checks be carried out by other institutions and that he order such checks to be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u143	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Would you like a line, Mrs. Kanazireva? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u144	I have no further questions, Minister. I assure you that in the territory of Plovdiv for every environmental infringement, very serious and active measures have been taken. I'm familiar with every single violation regardless of its character. I am also willing to cooperate in the future, as I know the problems. Unfortunately, eight months have been lost during and the ministers of the service to take steps to speed up the activities of designing sanitary areas, and that's where the key is. I assure you, not a few experts have consulted these areas, and I assure you that they fall into Belt II. Just pay attention so they don't turn out to be, again, in Belt III. From then on, I'll expect an extra... I now believe that there are sufficient reasons to cease this career activity in the future.................................................................................................. But as far as I know, one concession is 1997 and the other concession is 2001. Back in time I don't know if they reach 50 years, but it's a fact that can be verified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u145	Thank you. The next question to Borislav Sandov is from the MP Vladislav Panev on the Environment Protection Program under art. 79 of the Environmental Protection Act for Shumen Municipality. Here you go, Mr. Panev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u146	Dear Minister, on the territory of Shumen District and in particular in Shumen municipality there is systematic neglect of environmental problems related to the regional municipal waste depot. Its support has been entrusted to a municipal enterprise, the Cleanliness, and there are numerous acts drawn up. Also, information on systematic pollution of the river Golyamo Kamchia is available in RIEW..................................................................................................................................................................................... Shoumen has been giving prescriptions over the years, and Shumen Municipality has systematically sent intentions for an upcoming activity to limit the leaks from the landfill that it subsequently does not comply with. My question is as follows: has information been provided in RIEW "Shoumen," as to whether the mayor of Shumen Municipality has developed, is the Environmental Protection Program under art. 79 of the Environmental Protection Act and with what programming period is the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u147	Thank you, Mr. Panev. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u148	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Panev, according to the information received from the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Water in Shumen, no official information is available at present on the development and adoption by the municipal council of the Environment Protection Program of Shumen Municipality according to precisely the Order, which you also quoted. 79 of the Environmental Protection Act. It's not available! In RIEW, no reports on the implementation of the Environment Protection Programme are presented in accordance with the requirements of this Article, but para. 6 of the Law. Except for the programs under art. 79 of the EEAG municipal waste management programmes are one of the important tools for the implementation of waste management legislation at local level. They shall be developed in accordance with art. 52 of the Waste Management Act. According to the same art. 52, para. 2 Municipal waste management programmes are sectoral programmes and are an integral part of municipal environmental protection programmes. On 16 June 2021, the Council of Ministers adopted a National Waste Management Plan for the period 2021 - 2028 and the municipalities are obliged to develop their municipal waste management programmes for a period that should coincide with the period of action of the National Waste Management Plan, i.e. 2021 - 2028. The Programme is also developed in accordance with the structure, objectives and forecasts of the National Waste Management Plan. The last municipal waste management programme of the municipality of Shumen, adopted by the Municipal Council, is for the period 2015 - 2020, therefore they do not currently have one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u149	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. A line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u150	Declaration!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u151	May I, Mr. Bikov, the final question to release Deputy Prime Minister Borislav Sandov? Okay, thank you very much. We move on to the last question to Borislav Sandov, who is from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva. The question is about a constructive protocol for an illegal landfill. Here you go, Mrs. Stratieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u152	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Sandov, I appeal to you on the occasion of a consolidated RIEW protocol from 10 September 2021 for an illegal dump in properties with IDs 07822.17.2 and 07822.15.124, which are located in the village of Bunzevo, Yakoruda Municipality, which according to Yakoruda Municipality does not have. The Conventional Protocol contains provisions for the removal of infringements with a deadline for their removal until 1 October 2021. Despite the explicitly indicated period RIEW lv. of Yakoruda Municipality for the landfill, which according to Yakoruda Municipality is null and void. According to information from the Municipality the checks carried out by RIEW, Blagoevgrad, on the territory of the municipality are held in the presence of a representative of the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Water and are often co-ordinated with a municipal adviser from the political party GERB. In this regard, I would like to be informed whether, at the date of issue of the criminal decree by No 2-03 of 21 December 2021, by which the RIEW... Blagoevgrad imposes a fine of 3 thousand. lv. of the Municipality of Yakoruda for the landfill, RIEW.. Blagoevgrad, has there been a real landfill of land in the two properties located on the territory of the village of Bunzevo, Yakoruda municipality, and if there is, please provide a photo or any evidence? If there is an established practice, together with RIEW staff, for the checks to be attended by municipal councilors from the municipalities and the district, to inform me, and if there is such a practice, how often are such joint checks carried out, which offenders covers and in which municipalities such checks are carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Stratieva, after receiving a signal from 31 August 2021 in RIEW, on September 10th, such a check was carried out on the territory, as you mentioned, with complaints about illegal landfills created on the territory of the village of Bunzevo. The inspection has ended with the establishment of Constitutional Protocol No 44-03.. You have already mentioned it. A member of Yakoruda Municipality and a RIEW official took part in the inspection, in addition to the draft minutes. No persons other than those mentioned were involved or present during the verification. According to the verification carried out in RIEW, Blagoevgrad, the claims of Yakoruda Municipality do not correspond with the actual factual situation and the evidence collected in the case. The inspection revealed illegal landfills, including in land properties 07822.172 and 07822.15.124 in the land of the village of Buntsevo. According to the finding from the verification of each of the locations with the specified point with coordinates, a tug, earth-massing was carried out. This is evidenced by traces of material seized in close proximity from the skates, traces of waste are also identified. Similar was the situation in the other places, which the photograph material attached to the protocol testifies to. [[shows photo material]] and I'll give it to you afterwards. The terms of the contract shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 113, para. 3 of the Waste Management Act establishes that, in relation to infringements detected in an inspection carried out, the Director of the RIEW or an official authorised by him shall give binding prescriptions with a fixed time limit for their removal or draw up acts for the establishment of administrative infringements. With regard to the second question: in RIEW, Blagoevgrad, there is no practice in which the checks should be carried out with municipal councilors on the territory of the municipality concerned. There have been checks by citizens who have reported dirt in order to indicate the specific location. On the side of the RIEW, photos of the contaminated terrain have been sent to you and I can give them to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u155	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Would you like a line, Mrs. Stratieva? No. Dear Mr. Sandov, thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. There are no more questions for you. Come in for a statement, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take this opportunity to raise once again a topic which is perhaps the most important topic for the Bulgarian society at the moment, for the Bulgarian economy and for every Bulgarian citizen. This is the price crisis, which is no longer a crisis only in the field of energy, which is already spreading to all sectors of the country's economic life, in all the public spheres and in all the lives of people who live with anxiety and fear that they will not be able to pay their next electricity bill. I will remind you that this price crisis, whose consequences we are already consuming, was missed as early as autumn in the update of the budget for 2021. Then we repeatedly raised the question that electricity prices were growing headlong, that they would continue to grow in the coming weeks, and yet we did not get any understanding from the then quasi-manhood in the Forty-sixth National Assembly and from the then Minister of Finance in the caretaker government Mr. Asen Vassilev, who left no buffers in the budget for 2021, which could now offset part of the problem. Moreover, if the right measures were then taken to compensate the business, which began to feel the price of industrial electricity every day, we would have stopped the price growth of other products. At the moment there is talk of inflation of 7.8%, but keep in mind that inflation in the most needed products is about 20%. This is what people who consume the most necessary products are suffering; low-income people; people who work but are already working poor and have not been working until 4 months ago. [[Reply from "We are continuing the Change: "Come on now! "]] This is the situation, this was the situation in October. And then they said, "Come on now." And do you know what the proof is that there was going to be a price crisis? The proof that only the Committee on Culture, as funny as it may be, envisaged an increase in compensation for electricity prices, which are also extremely insufficient and which, by the way, due to the incompetence of the Minister of Culture, were not effectively used. We are now in the phase where we must not fight the expansion of the crisis, and we must fight the growing crisis, the crisis that is becoming an epidemic! Whole public systems are about to block: schools, theaters are downloading performances because they can't pay for electricity, hospitals, community centers. Any type of institution that is not industrial enterprises but pays industrial electricity: churches, mosques, any kind of temples that do not do business and cannot in any way survive in these times. We are not talking here at all about the stopped businesses that are better off than to continue working, because their losses will be much greater if they continue in this direction. And we hear a lot of inadequate announcements of the type: "For me, inflation is not a problem. " Ladies and gentlemen, for all of us and for every Bulgarian citizen inflation is a huge problem! The announcement given for the forthcoming budget is that pro-inflation policy will be conducted! Not only will no measures be taken to limit inflation, but will be conducted, will be poured, will continue to pour money, and it with borrowing that will cause a secondary inflation wave! This is extremely inexplicable behavior for us. And even more extremely inexplicable behavior is the refusal of the ruling majority to have any conversation on this subject. As much as you imagine that this problem does not exist or that this problem is not that important, it is the most significant problem at the moment! The most significant problem for every Bulgarian citizen! From this problem will also result in an increase in unemployment, and a burden on the state with new social costs for unemployed. And you will see that at the end of 2022, problems can turn out to be even bigger in times bigger than at the moment! This is the second time we've warned you. Last time was October, now we're telling you again. We have proposed certain solutions that can solve some of these problems at the moment. The state must do everything it can to save the ho-ras! Even if we talk here about some vision, about some long-term solution, we're talking about people, businesses surviving, public systems not blocking, and it all depends on the ruling majority! We offer solutions. We're doing this because you don't offer solutions. If you propose solutions, we are ready to debate them, we are ready to help you, we are ready to support you, we are ready to make proposals to these solutions. You haven't proposed a single solution. The government has not proposed any solution that will somehow stop this wave, which is about to flood the entire Bulgarian society. An example of such ineffective activity being done is the Temporary Energy Commission, which was the first thing that the Forty-Seventh People's Assembly did, one of the first things. Then we asked you repeatedly: why do you need this Temporary Energy Commission, provided that in a few days there will be a regular Energy Commission? You pointed out in your reasoning: we will analyze and propose solutions. And today, more than a week after this Commission's term expired, it was one month's time, we ask you: what are the decisions that have taken this committee, which have only been assembled once? I will reply to you: there is no Commission report, there is no item on the Parliament's agenda to show that it will consider the work of this Commission, to adopt the report, and eventually if there are certain measures in it, to submit them as a proposal to the National Assembly and to accept them. There's no such thing. And here is the big political problem that you need to think about. You do not have a decision-making mechanism on any matter! I don't know what your Coalition Council is, so far I've heard that he once met online, but I never understood what this Coalition Council decided then. From what I hear, he's been working on your announcements, in your words, with the judicial reform. Nothing against judicial reform, but if you had real decision-making mechanisms in your quadruple coalition, which is complicated enough, you would already have some suggestions, you would be discussing problems that are literally in front of our eyes! You refuse to discuss the things that bother you. You refuse to make decisions. There's no vacuum in politics. If you cannot make decisions and if the decisions are not made here in the National Assembly, they will start to be taken elsewhere. And they're taken! The price of electricity is rising, people are left at the mercy of fate. I see that you are ready for dialogue and to make some working groups only when a few thousand people flock to parliament. If you are waiting for a few thousand people in front of parliament for the price of electricity, keep in mind that this will lead to a very complicated situation for yourself. Take precautions on time. And here I'm not threatening you at all that we're bringing some people. People will come alone at some point! And it's extremely unpleasant, I'm telling you from experience I've been in a situation where there were people in front of parliament, but they weren't for the price of electricity, by the way. For the price of electricity is much more unpleasant, for the price of bread is much more unpleasant. And I warn you very well: if you don't start making decisions, if you don't start pursuing any political action, if you don't start facing the problems, and not trying to bypass them and sweep them under the carpet, there's nothing good waiting for you! Unfortunately, nothing good will expect any Bulgarian citizen! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u157	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, my procedure for you is as follows: You, in charge of the plenary sitting today and this parliamentary control, in addition to closely monitoring the speaker from this platform, must also follow the Members of Parliament in this Chamber and their behaviour. Unfortunately, I did not miss one manifestation in the Chamber by the other colleagues from "We are continuing the Change".... how at times they were grinning and may not have followed carefully the speech and declaration of our parliamentary group. Unfortunately, I was under the impression that you were committed to reading something and obviously did not do it to you, but to call on you at another time to pay attention to your colleagues in the Chamber when there is a declaration, when important things are spoken, to observe the good tone and to listen to each other. And among colleagues who may have had something to make them laugh, grinning at the moment when we discussed this, there are certainly good economists and they cannot be impressed that it is not a funny topic, colleagues, precisely when we pay attention to you to such a problem the inflation pressure that is on Bulgarian citizens, especially for the working poor, who at a price of 1 BGN. on bread, if the salary is BGN 700 gross, they will buy 350 breads. However, if the price of bread, as it is today, is BGN 2, they can buy half the bread, so this is not funny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u159	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Not only during declarations, not at all during a sitting of appeals from the Chamber are not desirable by any parliamentary group. We are now going to the questions to the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov. There are three questions for Minister Rashkov. The first question is from the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev on an investigation by the sector "Fighting with Organized Crime" at the Ministry of Interior Varna, with production number 2527-2019. Here you are, Mr. Ganev. You have two minutes to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u160	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Rashkov, my question is as follows: in 2019, as a municipal councillor at the Municipal Council of Varna, it became known to me that illegal activities were being carried out in the Directorate of Local Taxes at Varna Municipality. By letter, entry number "not to quote it at the moment, from 9 December 2019 I asked the mayor of the city Mr. Ivan Portnich, but I have not yet received an official reply. As far as I know, basic indicators have been changed which determine the tax assessments of properties, respectively the taxes and fees due for them: constructions, year of construction, location of the city's construction borders and the like. The budget of the municipality of Varna is wronged by millions and by improper use of energy efficiency certificates. The budget is mainly for hotels and other non-residential buildings. The taxation of motor vehicles has also been found to be unlawful. I have repeatedly made inquiries to the mayor of the town of Ivan Portnich: has a thorough examination been carried out for all these abuses and have there been any revelations about them? How many of the funds that have not been collected from these checks have been recovered and are there any employees being held liable? I didn't get an answer to those questions again. As far as I know, an investigation has been carried out by the organized crime sector at the Ministry of Interior. The production number is 2527.2019. In view of the above, please answer the following questions: Is there any development in this case? If there is, or if there isn't, what is the reason for this? How long will the guilty persons who have caused damage to the budget of the municipality of Varna be covered? And thirdly, but no less important, is: has Mayor Ivan Portnich been hiding the actions of the suspected employees and had any benefits for these actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u161	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you are, Minister, for a response within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In answer to my question just now, I can inform the following: In 2019, information on illegal activities of management employees and experts at lower levels in the administration of the Municipality of Varna was received in the Office of Organized Crime in Varna. The data is that benefits have been received and distributed, which have damaged the municipal budget in particular large amounts. After analysis of this information collected by operational route, a reference has been prepared and sent to the Special Prosecutor's Office. These data also show evidence of corruption by officials organised in a criminal group. On 11 February 2020, by order of the Prosecutor of the Special Prosecutor's Office, Pre-trial proceedings were initiated No 15 of the same year. It is the record that I believe we have heard.. 2527 since 2019, that since January 2016 an official has led and participated in an organized crime group, created for a quest and in order to commit fraud for obtaining property, bribery and document crimes. That's, I can tell, I don't know how appropriate it is. 212, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 308, Art. 313 of the penal code, crime under art. 321, para. 3 in connection with para. 1 and para. 2 of the Penal Code. In the course of the investigation of pre-trial proceedings, numerous interviews of witnesses were carried out, experts were drawn up, documents from various institutions, natural and legal persons were incorporated. A report was sent to the monitoring prosecutor on 28 October 2021. That's the practice. By letter dated 9 November 2021, the Special Prosecutor's Office requested the pre-trial proceedings which were sent on 11 November 2021. Until now, there are no indications received by the Special Prosecutor's Office, so from now on I cannot give you any other information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u163	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ganev, would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u164	Mr. Rashkov, first of all, I'd like to thank you for the information you've given us, because this is the first step in this case. Kazus, which affects public money within millions, tolerate certain circles close to the government in Varna, of individuals who are benefiting. There are documentaries. I hope that the prosecution will really say that this will eventually be brought into court so that the necessary attention can be drawn to these individuals. Once again, thank you. However, there has been a development in a case that has been hidden for years and has not been moved to where it is right now. Now, too, we have been observing... for several months there has been no development. Let's hope there is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u165	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. We are moving on to a question again from the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev about a signal to the District Prosecution Office Varna, with entry No 294-9-120, from 26 February 2022. Here you are, Mr. Ganev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u166	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Rashkov, in 2020 I sent a signal to the District Prosecution Office Varna, with a number of which, regarding an urgent check for the way two properties are acquired in the city of Varna and its illegalness. I don't have an official answer at the moment. It is about two properties in the area of Bchelina with identifiers as follows: according to Mrs. Tsveta Yancheva, who sent the signal to me, the described properties have always represented a gorge. In the summer of 2019, Mrs. Yanchevai and other neighbors close to these properties, which I have referred to you as data, notice that the trees are cut down and the ravine is covered with dirt, probably to undertake construction activities. A number of signals have been sent, including to the Council of Ministers. The Regional Forest Directorate of Varna has confirmed that the properties are led to the State Forest Fund. This means that the trees that were cut there are also state-owned. On 19 January 2020, a view of the place was made by me and a group of municipal councillors. Together we saw and found the things that I described a little bit above. You can clearly see a pipe in place that takes the water from this gully down the road. It also became clear that this sleeve of the ravine is already filled with dirt and construction activities have begun to be carried out on it and can not take the water away. In this regard, as far as I know, pre-trial proceedings have been initiated, and as municipal councillor, I have been called to testify. I haven't been informed at the moment about the development of the case file. I would like to get the following answers to my questions: is there any progress on this file if there is no, what is the reason for this? Have the officials who conducted the investigation from the Economic Police established the actual facts that the gully is buried and there are trees carved there? What did they do after that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u167	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the issues raised, there are several, I can inform the following: first, on 26 February 2020, a signal has actually been sent by you as a municipal councillor in Varna, in the prosecution, where a file with a certain number has been formed. It shows data of illegal "This is the initial assessment "Pushing with dirt and cutting of trees into two land properties, I will save the numbering, in the area of Franga Dere in Varna, which is allegedly falling into a forest fund and are state property. On 10 March 2020, the file was sent to the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, Varna, where a preliminary check was carried out as to whether there was any evidence of a crime committed. After its completion, the materials are sent to the District Prosecutor's Office Varna, to rule on this issue is there a crime, or is there no crime? By order of the monitoring prosecutor of 16 April 2021, On 16 April, you can see the rate at which we are moving in these inquiries and these statements, about one year, have been refused pre-trial proceedings by the prosecution due to lack of sufficient data, according to the prosecutor who ruled, data on a crime committed within the meaning of the Criminal Code. The paperwork has been terminated, respectively. In connection with the other part of the signal to the mayor of Varna, it is known that pre-trial proceedings have been initiated, which, however, refers to another case of different factology. On the second question, is it established whether the accumulation of the ravine and the cutting of the trees there have been done legally? Regarding the legality of the construction activities carried out there at the signal of Mrs. Tsveta Yancheva in 2019 again by employees of the Directorate of Public Order Management and Public Order Control. It is clear from the answer that the property in question is urbanized territory on the Cadastral map and cadastral registers in Varna. The pouring and spreading of unpolluted land masses is not contrary to the Law on Construction in the Area, allowing public events by the owners of the regulated land property at their expense in view of its functional purpose and future construction according to the existing planning plans of the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u169	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a line, Mr. Ganev? No. We move on to a question from the MP Atanas Mihnev about the aggressive behaviour of the protesters during the protest on 12 January 2022 and the measures taken by the Ministry of Interior. Here you are, Mr. Mihnev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Rashkov, of course, it is quite possible that you do not remember, as this was a miniature new event, but on January 12 there was a kind of protest on the streets of Sofia, which started from the square of the National Assembly. There was a certain amount of people gathered that seemed more like a handful of people. At some point during the protest, tensions escalated. The protesters tried to invade the National Assembly building. Personally, it seemed funny to me because it was their building and they could walk in whenever they wanted, but they tried to invade the empty National Assembly. After all, after the intervention of the authorities of the police until the invasion was not reached, and the protesters continued their slumbering procession. In this regard, since I cannot ask you from this handful of people how many of them have been vaccinated, although I am sure that the percentage is much higher than the national average, I can ask you: what was the number of participants in this grand protest? In other words, how big was the handful? Were there any violent people among the protesters? However, what data does the Ministry of Interior have for victims of protesters and members of the police? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u171	Thank you, Mr. Mihnev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Mihnev! Sometimes we have to admit that it is not as important as the number of protesters - fewer protesters - I say this in the circle of the joke - they can cause more harm than when they are a larger group and which a larger group has no aggressive behavior. Not only have I noticed that there has been a protest, but we have also created the necessary organisation so that the protest goes according to the order that the country's laws foresee that there will be no harm, that there will also be no damage to the citizens, of course, and to police officers. Perhaps you have noted that the police have been extremely tolerant of the protesters. That's what I'm telling the gym. I have received, including from the Chair of the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection, a thank you message that police officers have shown unseen patience so far. Police officers during the day worked without shields and without any other means of their personal protection, which is legal. In such a way, they signaled the protesters that they were not their opponents. I think it's a very important novelty in the relationship between protesters and police officers, whatever behavior that we didn't notice a year or two ago. In this sense, I just want to say a little bit more that the policemen involved on this day deserve a bow for their stoicism, heroism and so on. More specific questions I will tell you: from 12:00 p.m. On 12 January this year there was, of course, a movement on the central part of the National Assembly, protest events were held. They were declared in accordance with the relevant legal order. So far, absolutely nothing bad. Every citizen will protest when he feels he has a place to express his disagreement with one or another. It was a protest event against the green certificate. We all know that there are both supporters and opposers of this measure. To ensure public order. Of course, we have taken the necessary measures. I assure you, this is not an easy job to predict and possibly surprises. There were some, and now I won't miss to inform you, you know. We took a lot of serious forces that day from the police, from their day-to-day commitments, so that we could ensure the normal course of the protest. The estimated number of citizens we believe were at the protest is between four and five thousand. If we don't match these impressions of yours, please excuse me, but that's what we know. Secondly, we will not, and we will still be... as obviously I will not have enough time. How many individual employees from different departments of the Ministry of Interior, this is not so important. However, there are about 1143 police officers in the area here and in the square of Nezavistvo. Indeed, the presence of aggressive citizens among protesters has been found. Images of the kind, we all heard them, of course, not saying anything new: Today we will go in, we will ask a question. We'll take them out with our feet first thing tomorrow. Let's go and get into parliament and ask them to remove it from the stands. I call on every citizen to enter civil disobedience and get inside now. Please proceed to the side entrances and from there kindly come in and ask. Now, it is known that the protesters have made unsuccessful attempts to drill and tear the built police cordons. There have been pressured citizens - these are facts that have been assisted by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior themselves, their removal to a safe place, medical assistance has been provided to them. The Ministry of Interior has taken timely measures to protect public order. What do I mean? Two persons were detained before and during the protest events as follows: one missed through a filter point at which a check was subsequently carried out on the motor vehicle, its light car in which it was driven, and 1 ammunition was found in the vehicle. In this case, pre-trial proceedings have been initiated for illegal possession of ammunition under art. 339 of the Penal Code. Work on the case continues. There's no data...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u173	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt, because we've doubled our time, possibly, in the back of your jacket to continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u174	I see.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u175	Thank you if there is such a possibility. For a line, Mr. Mihnev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u176	Dear Minister, thank you for your information. Of course, I didn't want to replicate that you didn't notice this protest, perhaps you've already forgotten it because of the nature of it being insignificant 4,000 people. I do not agree, in my opinion, the figure was considerably smaller, but we will trust the authorities of law and institutions. We thank the law enforcement authorities for professionalism for protecting human life and health. We regret that there has been an aggression directed against citizens. I hope that in 2022, when we read declarations of the Holocaust anniversary, such manifestations of unhappy fascism will diminish. We also thank the Prime Minister Mr. Kiril Petkov, who heard the protesters and showed the new way to work "invited them to a joint committee to clarify what the truth is and this committee is working. This is how we intend to work the ministers and the parliamentary group. I see Minister Serbenova is here too. We're not going to ask if a cluster of 4,000 people is causing the danger of a horse, because most of them have probably been vaccinated, so it's okay. And lastly, we can still hire a psychiatrist for this handful of people. Thank you. [[Noise and Resurrection lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u177	Wait a minute, I'll give you the floor, Mr. Ganev, for procedure. Mr. Mihnev, please refrain from such statements from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u178	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u179	Mr. Ganev, let's just finish the procedure. Mr. Minister, if you'd like to come in. And then you for procedure, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u180	A few more data I'd like to give you for fullness. With regard to this man, production has been formed. Of course, the materials were sent to the Sofia District Attorney's Office in view of the crime he committed. Now, regarding citizens, there is no record of hospitalized ones. A complaint has been filed with the Ministry by four journalists from BTV, by the way, I want to tell you, I don't know if it's right to announce the names, of course, Mr. Chairman, if you judge, I'll say them, if not...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u181	I'd rather not quote names.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u182	...who have filed a complaint and which tells how they were pulled and treated quite harshly with insulting expressions that microphones were destroyed, damaged and so on. As far as the employees of the Ministry of Interior are concerned, 9 out of 11 people have rib pain, abdominal pain, and two other employees have just separated them, I don't know why they did it, but there are 11. They're not severely damaged, and everyone, I think they know why it is, because the collision is objective, we all saw it, and we couldn't help but see similar results. So I can add that to that. You know, published materials regarding a protesting citizen who was also pressed to the point of losing control of herself, but, thank God, we have no serious incidents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u183	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question for you. [[Noise and Resurrection lines.]] Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Mr. Ganev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u184	Mr. President, it is extremely impressive what you allow to happen again in this House.. representatives of a coalition of parties once again to accuse the Bulgarian people of being a handful of unhappy fascists. I really admire how double standards can be displayed once again. Two of your coalition deputies took the liberty of doing this right here. Third, of the so-called Lefty accused me of being also a fascist, and this thing goes unnoticed by you as chairman. Please, be so kind when the Bulgarian people of this tribune is defamed, when for the second time representatives of your coalition deputies directly say that the Bulgarian people are a handful of unhappy fascists, at least show a little dignity not to punish them with a remark, but to be expelled officially. Because it does not honor those people who are currently sitting and looking with admiration at their colleague, because he is not my colleague he is yours, I am ashamed of him when the same person and one such colleague accuses the Bulgarian people, the people who have chosen you to be a handful of unhappy fascists. I'm going to go beyond the definition of what the protest was like, and some such epithets. It is shocking that out of this tribune you also allow yourself, Mr. President, to tolerate and not punish directly by eviction a man who repeatedly accused the Bulgarian people of being a handful of unhappy fascists. Let it be known when you go to your constituents tomorrow to answer questions: are we, or are we not? [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u185	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. As you can see, I did not remain silent and made a remark to my colleague to refrain from such definitions. We are moving on to the questions of Minister Stefan Yanev. We have a question from the MP Hristo Gajev about the role of the Ministry of Defence in protecting the state border and maintaining the security infrastructure. Here you are, Mr. Gazhev. Develop your question within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the question, by the way, I have already made it on 14 December. Today it has come to its response, in fact it concerns the activities of the caretaker government, of which you were also Prime Minister, carried out after the update of the state budget in August and September 2021. As you know, one of the reasons for the adoption of both the update and a lot of money in it was precisely strengthening the capacity of the Bulgarian state to meet a possible refugee crisis, as well as repairing the deterrent facility along the border. In this regard, the Ministry of Defence further allocated around 25 million, of which 5 million to restore and upgrade the capabilities of the Aerosonde M.k 4.7, which is one drone system and another 20 million. BGN, which were calculated in different calculations by the Ministry of Defence, represented in the Defence Committee, at that time, for repairs of one helicopter, wage costs, missionary and overhead costs and for the GM where necessary for deployment of servicemen at the border and the like. In this regard, my question to you: what tasks has the Ministry of Defence carried out on the state border since September? There was one announced by the Council of Ministers, there was also a press conference from the border of defence ministers and internal affairs by the caretaker government, so there is definitely something fulfilled. How much of the funds allocated with the update have been spent and for what? Is there a contract to upgrade the capability of the aircraft? What activities and in which sections of the border are carried out for repair and maintenance of the subject infrastructure of the protective facility? What are the costs of the Ministry of Defence for these activities and how are they provided? Based on how much increased migratory pressure has been decided to include the border guard army and is the Ministry of Defence continuing to participate in additional activities to date? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u187	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u188	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gazhev, yes, the statement of your question contained the consistency of the decisions and their justification in their order. This is really the case with the budget update provided this money, as you mentioned. A contract to repair the aircraft is not included due to non-compliance and technical details, which I do not think is the time and place to comment on here. The talks about the repair of the helicopter, Cougar, continue, so I guess things are fine there. With regard to the activities carried out by the Ministry of Interior in support of the activities of the Ministry of Interior, border police, border protection, patrolling, the activities normally carried out and in relation to the restoration of destroyed areas where there is, it is approximately as follows: At the end of October and the beginning of November, the Ministry of Defence joined with a joint plan, together with the Ministry of Interior, such as the workload of personnel directly involved in the implementation of this task, ranged from about 450 at the beginning of November to about 250 at the end of December. The activity carried out was: first of all, joint patrol with Border Police, mixed patrols between border police and forces of the Bulgarian Army, as well as certain logistical activities. Logistic activity is the easiest thing to understand is restoring the integrity of the fence facility where sections are defined as critical. In this regard, the participation of the army and the real aid that has been carried out has been re-installed the facility of the order of 50 km total length, which is part of two main border sections. The Svilengrad division and Elhovo. Or roughly, it's about two thirds of the entire length of the border facility. Within these two thirds, I speak quite conditionally with figures, in the order of these 150 km, for example, about one third are repaired with the necessary repairs made where there are fallen fence panels, adding the necessary fence wire, repairing infrastructure, approach roads, drainage channels, and removing this vegetation, which is close to the fence facility. In terms of this vegetation, I think the figure was in the order of 27 thousand. kv. m. It is somewhat difficult to digest exactly how it is checked and calculated, but in practice a very bulky work is done because it is about on both sides of the fence panels, because over time this vegetation, especially where there are more serious plant species and begin to grow, are able to lift it up and self-destruct it so to say with natural forces. It's done. Of course, this operation was officially terminated in mid-January, that is, during your questioning. Once its official phase is terminated due to the obvious climatic conditions, the Bulgarian Army continues to participate with another 20 people who perform transport tasks where it is necessary to move, certain logistics tasks to be solved. I have an estimate of the funds spent in the period November-December, which is of the order of 200,000. lv. for missionary, fuel lubricants and other materials which have been incurred as expenses only by the participants in this operation by the Bulgarian Army. With regard to the necessary materials that were used to repair the fence, they were made by the Ministry of Interior, so it is not necessary to talk about this figure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u189	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gajev, for further questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! From your answer, I've learned that the aerodynamics have dropped out, as well as the negotiations are continuing so far. I assume you asked the Minister of Finance for these funds, which were planned in budget 2021, to be transferred to budget 2022, because otherwise it would mean one additional resource for the Minister of Finance, but would not go to the target to improve the state of the Bulgarian Armed Forces or restore and upgrade their abilities, which would not be right because the Ministry has received these funds for these purposes and must use them. I won't forget one statement, there was an interview by your predecessor the minister of service who boasted that the only thing the Ministry of Defense has purchased for the servicemen on the border is gloves to stretch the fence. If this is logistics, at least I was a little offended in that regard. The two supplementary questions: firstly, are the funds intended for a transfer to budget 2022 because it is important to understand what is happening? And in fact the other funds that were allocated during the budget update, they were actually reimbursed to the Ministry of Finance or rather remained in the Ministry of Finance and used, as far as you can answer, how were they used by the Minister of Finance and the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u191	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u192	Dear Mr. Gazhev Yes, the 5 million in question provided for the repair of the aircraft have not been used since the end of the financial year, of course, with the provisions and are practically returned to the Ministry of Finance. The contract for the repair of the helicopter, which we are talking about, is worth about 12 million. BGN, passes through the NATO Support Agency and the contract is made through it, so it will be implemented, hopefully by the middle of this year. This type of payment is intended to be, that is to say, transferred to the budget and the money is available, it is not necessary to look for new funds. In terms of what, when medialy said, I can tell you in figures, in particular what was done by mentioning some figures. From the point of view of the removed plant environment, the renovated panels are, I think, between 350 and 380, about five kilometers of new barbed wire was made, about 50 km of roads and approaches were repaired with the funds of the Bulgarian Army and involved in this operation. So it's not just about gloves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u193	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gajev, about attitude. [[Reply.]] Mr. Taslakov, are you for procedure? When Mr. Gadget is finished, it's you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u194	Dear Mr. President, Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think that the state of the fence facility is extremely important, in fact, whether all the measures that should have been taken have been taken and taken. And as much as whether it was just that, as you yourself said, without commenting, this was a statement by the Minister of Defence and I refer to the words of the Minister of Defence at that time, and as you yourself said, the other funds are provided by the Ministry of Interior, as far as I understand by the Council of Ministers' decree, so the Minister of Defence has no way of telling which one or more of them was spent. For colleagues who were not here during the previous National Assembly, the budget update voted over 60 million. lv. for measures to assist border guards. I think it is important for all of us to understand how these funds have been spent and whether they have been spent at all, or whether they have gone on any other priorities, whether to the caretaker or to the regular government, at the end of the year? Therefore, Mr President, I am providing you with a Draft for a debate, that is, a proposal for a debate and a Draft for a decision on the question that has just been held, which aims to provide information to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on how these funds have been spent, how many of them have been spent, whether all measures on rehabilitation of the protective facility have been completed, so that at the beginning of the year, and especially in the debates that are ahead for the adoption of the State Budget Act, let us know if this work is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u195	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Taslakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm in the way of conduct. From your position a moment ago you did not notice, but the colleague who came out after asking the question showed the middle finger to the colleagues in the Chamber and I would like to draw attention to you to check whether this is the case and accordingly to punish our colleague. We must not allow such manifestations, as you know and realize the heights of this tribune and this institution. So such a manifestation should not be allowed to be tolerated in the future, rather it would be acceptable to the Grinder platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u197	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. This situation will be verified. Mr. Gajev, I'm asking you to enter this project into the Office. [[Reply from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] Let's not let the administration in on its own. Asked by the National Representative Elena Guncheva about the joint military bases used in Bulgaria. Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva, to develop your inquiry within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! On 28 April 2006 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America was signed an Agreement on Joint Bases. They are on Bulgarian soil and there are a number of clauses in the Agreement that we consider unacceptable and we believe are damaging the Bulgarian national interests. They provide that there may be up to 2,500 American servicemen, and their number may be increased to 5000 within 90 days. It is also envisaged that U.S. aircraft and vehicles are not subject to scrutiny and that they do not pay fees for passing through our airspace, port charges, light or parking fees. The United States is also expected to pay a reasonable price for services they require. Therefore, my question is: at present, how many US servicemen are in joint use facilities, according to the agreement cited above, and are there more servicemen than those agreed in the Agreement and for how long? How is the number of U.S. military personnel established in the bases? Are there constantly Bulgarian servicemen in these bases to control compliance with the Agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u200	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Guncheva, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States on Defence Cooperation was ratified by the National Assembly on 26 May 2006 and published in the Official Journal of the European Union, respectively. 55 of the same year. It is an international public contract leading to the scope of art. 5, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, under which international treaties ratified by constitutional order, promulgated and entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria are part of the domestic law of the country. This Agreement lays down the framework for enhanced partnership and cooperation in the field of security and defence between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United States and complements and specifies the basic concepts and conditions established by the Agreement of the Parties concerning the North Atlantic Treaty on the status of their armed forces.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In this context, under art. 4, § 3 of the Treaty or of the Agreement, it is indicated that the number of civilian and military components present in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, I mean, this contingent is civilian and military in total, cannot exceed 2,500 people. You rightly pointed out that this number cannot exceed the total number of 5000 people within 90 days. Until now, since 2006, there has been no case in which American servicemen have even approached the figure of 2,500 people. There was always less presence than that number. When I say presence, bear in mind that we are talking not about a permanent presence, but about this type of teachings that take place at the school range of the New Village, in the sense of numbers, even with rotation, when a teaching is longer. Speaking of rotation, what am I really trying to explain?! One exercise can last two, three, five or six months, which means that there is no one doing the same thing, and there is a recurrence of events, i.e. different divisions from the framework of one company are currently conducting exercises, another company is coming in its place after one month, that is, players are changing. This is the type of rotation that is practiced on this polygon. In this sense this number is not a constant presence of this polygon, this number is precisely based on this rotation. Even with all the rotations on an annual basis, the number does not exceed 2,500 people. Specifically, your question: how many people are currently carrying out this type of teaching? By the time the question was asked in mid-January, they were exactly 206 American servicemen with the relevant equipment, armaments and are currently continuing this type of exercises, because at the moment the Bulgarian and American armed forces have been conducting such exercises since the beginning of January, which will continue until June, exactly this type of rotation that has been mentioned. In this sense and on the basis of the question whether there are permanent Bulgarian servicemen on this type of base, let me answer this. The facility itself refers to four military sites, four geographic locations. What we are talking about so far in relation to the number of people in Novo village, this is the school range. The other two bases that are used for joint exercises are Airobase.Graph Ignatevo. The 2006 initial agreement also provided for a warehouse area in the city of Aytos, but it has never been used and has been effectively removed from this agreement due to a lack of interest in its development and update. With regard to the general use of these types of facilities and the general responsibilities of the two countries, respectively the Republic of Bulgaria and the United States respectively within these facilities, and the United States of America have the right and invest mainly in infrastructure, of course, with permission and in a certain order from the Bulgarian country. There are constantly servicemen in these facilities, as they are Bulgarian facilities and at the same time within the meaning of the treaty and American. That's why we call them joint facilities. In other words, making investments and improving infrastructure and where additional funds are invested are made on the basis of permanent bodies for coordination between the Ministry of Defence, the command of US troops for Europe and the US Embassy in Sofia respectively. This activity is coordinated. It must be done, including through political control, that is, without a minister's order, nothing is done in place there. So with that, I think I answered your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u201	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u202	Dear Minister, I never understood what the US troops have to do in Bulgaria? We are a member of NATO, not a protectorate of the United States of America. You claim that these are Bulgarian military bases with joint use. Then my supplementary question is: why are almost all the inscriptions in these bases in English and English is an official language? As I recall, according to the Constitution, the Bulgarian language is the official language. And how exactly is the number of servicemen being controlled, given that the aircraft vehicles and all the equipment that goes to these bases are not subject to review? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u204	Dear Mrs. Guncheva, I think I've made myself clear. All actions taken in this type of facility shall be subject to the permission of the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence, respectively the Minister of Defence. That means the drill plans, the exit and entry plans, available personnel, equipment and everything else on the military channels. For the process of coordinating this activity is known in advance and is confirmed by the Minister of Defence, that is, these facilities are under Bulgarian control and the suggestion that they are some kind of American bases is rather incorrect. I don't know what it's about or how you use it, but I don't think it's right. Since the decision to create this type of joint facility has been taken by the then government and the National Assembly since 2006, and at the moment to look after past years of criticism regarding the then political representation, whatever it is, it is, so to speak, not a very correct dispute, as it is not adequate in time. From the point of view of coordination and what you call lack of checks. That's not true. Checks are carried out respectively not in the sense of customs checks that we are accustomed to seeing at civil airports, on civil sites crossing the border, but there is a necessary order. When ground machinery crosses the border, it is planned in advance, the composition is known, the way it is transported, convoyed. Of course, it is always convoyed by Bulgarian military police, meaning we have complete control where, when, what is moving. Similarly, the military equipment that lands at the airports concerned is controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u205	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Attitude, Mrs. Guncheva, would you like? We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev on the preparation of infrastructure in Military Formation (WF) 28000 Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u206	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! As you know, the government has allocated to 2020 " 2021." 200 million. lv. for the construction and modernization of the infrastructure of Aviobaza (Graff Ignatevo) mainly related to the acquisition and deployment of the new fighters, the first units of which we expect to arrive 2023. A delay in the construction of the infrastructure in question has also slowed down the acquisition of the military equipment itself because it cannot be located when the necessary infrastructure is not built. Your predecessor and minister of defense had some considerations that he had made publicly available on the subject. I don't know from there on what work he's done, whether by inspection or by analysis, as it is very modern to say recently, to the construction in question. I dare say from this tribune that for everything that is foreseen, as far as I know, a requirement has also come from the Bulgarian Air Force, i.e. all the infrastructure to be built is custom-made by the armed forces. It is important for us to understand how the process of completing the infrastructure is going, because if it is not ready by the end of the year, or in the worst case until the middle of the next, it will completely delay the process of accepting the new type of combat plane? And I think neither you nor the National Assembly are interested in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u207	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u208	Dear MPs, dear Mr. Gazhev! Your question is rightly formulated and I agree with you that it is not in any interest of the armed forces, nor, in particular, of the Ministry of Defence and the management, to allow delays for the development of this type of construction of almost new infrastructure, the renovation of the airport of Avioza, Graf Ignatevo. Citing what the former Minister of Defence stated, and so far as there was doubt, necessary checks have been made on some of the contracts already concluded on this infrastructure. Part of these checks have been submitted to the Military District Attorney's Office and the State Financial Inspection Agency. Two inspections are currently being carried out. One by ADPI started in October 2021 and the second in December 2021 by the Military Appeal Prosecutor's Office, and the results of these inquiries are not yet known, so we will see what this is about. In terms of the complexity of the project. Yes, I confirm that it is such a complex project and it becomes a task of the Air Force, but the point is that the Air Force itself does not have enough knowledge and expertise about what is coming, what are the final requirements and parameters. So far, there's still a fine adjustment of some of the parameters, resulting in potentially... I could still speak and what you said sounded like a concern for a further delay. In order to avoid this further delay and to be as sure as possible that the requirements that we have known have entered this type of performance assignment and as upcoming tasks. Next week I have called the Defence Council and one of the points is to see that all the necessary analyses, preliminary information and the requirements that we need to meet, we have them and from now on we know that the process is going in the normal way of building this type of infrastructure, in order not to get this delay, which you mentioned and which will be very unpleasant and will affect the functioning of the Aviation in the future. For illustration only, I can tell you that so far what you mentioned in the past years and in 2021, over 45 contracts have been concluded to build different elements of this infrastructure, and companies are at least 25. The interesting thing about the whole case and what I was familiar with about my entry into the Ministry, and this problem is that we do not have a system administrator of the process, that is, this type of construction has not been done by our prepared people. This is not about a construction supervision, it is about a complex project that must be looked at in its full depth and consistency of the actions that need to be done so as not to have to be where we have built the track, then dig it up, because we have forgotten the cables or plumbing, roughly speaking. What we see sometimes happens on the streets and the sidewalks we walk on. In this sense, it is very important that this sequence and this system we have, because the most important part of the base, the most visible of the repairs to the runway for take-off and landing, as we call it, is intended to begin in the middle of this year. To this end, the necessary procedures are being carried out together with the NATO Investment Agency, so that things are going normally there and we hope that around the middle of the year this renovation will start, which will be fundamental for everyone else, because in practice, the aviation will be closed for use, the aircraft available will be partitioned at another airport and, accordingly, the entire complex of activities should be carried out with maximum focus, coordination and with the necessary depth and amplitude of what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u209	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gazhev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u210	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, first of all, if there are officials who in any way have violated or exceeded their powers and this has led to a violation of the Law, they must suffer the consequences. I think that's why we're all determined here, and we'll see how the processes develop from here on out. I hope this doesn't slow down the construction of the infrastructure itself. There is or does not have an understanding of exactly what to do and therefore there was a project management that was created precisely to manage the more complex projects, from now on we will see whether with changes in the Rules of Procedure and so on, how will the project management continue in your time. Because it is really important, especially for complex projects, and not only infrastructure, but also for the acquisition of weapons and equipment, to have the capacity to implement them. Speaking of the fine settings you mentioned, I am impressed that the 2022 budget does not provide 100 million, but 180 million for the completion of the aviation infrastructure, that is, 80 million more than initially foreseen. And whether this is based on inflation, whether it is based on fine-tuning of additional projects, or perhaps from slowing down, or dropped out and unused from 2021, it is important to know why they are increasing. Because 80 million is a solid amount of money and we should also have clarity by asking the Council of Ministers to approve them for what they are for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u211	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u212	Dear Mr. Gazhev, it's not serious here, from this tribune, if we say 80 million is for fine-tuning. They are rather funds that have not been paid out last year, and of course other ideas that, when the time comes, here in this Chamber will be shared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u213	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are going to ask the National Representative Elena Guncheva about the joint use of military bases on the territory of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u214	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, so that I do not repeat what I just said, I will briefly say that my question again relates to the American bases. As I have already pointed out, American servicemen, as well as civilians in their contingent, do not pay taxes and fees on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. They're free of them. The Agreement provides that, if they request any services, they should be paid at a reasonable price. In view of this, my question is: have the US paid them services over a period of five years back in relation to joint use facilities; how is the reasonable price determined and for what services is paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u216	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Guncheva, as in the previous answer, we are talking about joint facilities. In practice, in the international treaty, there is an obligation of the parties involved in this international treaty to do certain things or not to do them. With regard to payments, receivables and donations. This international treaty provides for the mechanism by which financial relations between the two parties are to be regulated. The US country has invested money in the construction of infrastructure in the new village. Not only common spaces and buildings, but respectively infrastructure of the polygon itself Of course, this is, again, co-ordinated all this time with the Bulgarian side and where one investment supplemented the other, there was coordination and continued in the same way. With regard to these buildings, which are supplied with electricity and sewerage, all the time these accounts are paid by the American country where it uses these buildings, and of course from the Bulgarian country where the Bulgarian buildings are used. There's a mechanism in place, and you know who's taking over what kind of activity. From the point of view of the investments invested, from the perspective of the costs incurred in infrastructure, in everything that money is spent there, the notion of a reasonable price is little, how can I say, it is not appropriate to speak as a principle of giving and making. Because the reasonable price is in the documents that sign each other and agree in this joint work mechanism in terms of who puts what money into an activity. With regard to the services the US country uses, it pays them on the principle of hiring foreign companies with the corresponding contracts according to the Bulgarian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u217	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u218	Dear Minister, I have only two supplementary questions. Do you think that this agreement for the American bases in Bulgaria is beneficial to the Bulgarian national interests in economic, foreign policy and defence aspects? By asking you to answer yes or no. The second question is: will you support the termination of this agreement? I'm also asking for a brief answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u219	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Guncheva, I can answer your question regarding the assessment of the necessity and effectiveness of this type of agreement, which concerns the joint facilities from a military-technical point of view, yes, it is useful for the Bulgarian Army and its training. From this point of view, I would not support the annulment of this agreement because it is useful for the Bulgarian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u221	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Guncheva, would you like two minutes of treatment? No. Thank you. With this, the questions to the Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev are over. Thank you, Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions and questions to Minister of Health Asena Serbenova. The first question to Minister Serbenova is from Professor Kostadin Angelov about providing the vaccine Novavax. Here you are, Professor, for a statement of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u222	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Serbenova, we have received disturbing signals that the caretaker government and Minister Katsarov have given up the delivery of the Novavax vaccine against COVID-19 for Bulgarian citizens. Please answer: is this the case and what were the motives of the caretaker government for making the above decision? I am aware of the fact that the current government has taken measures and that in early March there is a possible supply of Novavax vaccine to Bulgarian citizens. My question is: has the government refused to order this vaccine for the Bulgarians in our country; what were the reasons and whose decision was it for the non-ordering of the Novaax vaccine for our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u223	Thank you, Professor Angelov. Here you are, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u224	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Angelov, by Decision No 491 of the Council of Ministers of 16 July 2020, Bulgaria has approved an Agreement authorising the European Commission to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines with their producers, the purpose of these agreements being to supply the countries with vaccines in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19 under the conditions of subsequent ratification by the National Assembly. The agreement was ratified by the National Assembly by the Law on ratification of the Agreement and promulgated in the Official Journal. The Commission shall be empowered to On the basis of this agreement, the Republic of Bulgaria participates in the vaccine delivery agreements concluded by the European Commission and the manufacturers of Biontech Manufacturing GmbH and Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium NV, AstraZeneca, Sanofi Pasteur SA and Glaxosmithkline Biologicals SA, Moderna and Valneva Austria, under which it is to receive and receive vaccines in subsequent months against COVID-19. Bulgaria's participation in each of the agreements, including what you are referring to, concluded by the European Commission and the manufacturers of medicines, has been decided by the Council of Ministers. The vaccine produced by Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, Bulgaria receives on the basis of an Agreement to support the resale from and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Sweden and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV for the purpose of buying and supplying a vaccine against COVID-19 to Bulgaria and the Agreement between the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Bulgaria on the resale of a vaccine against COVID-19 which was developed by the quoted pharmaceutical manufacturer. They were ratified by the National Assembly by the Law on ratification of the Agreement, which was promulgated in the Official Journal, No. In accordance with Article 21 of the By Decision No 591 of 11 August 2021, the Council of Ministers decided that the Republic of Bulgaria should not participate in the Agreement on prior purchase for the development, production and priority purchasing and delivery of a successful vaccine against COVID-19 to the Member States of the European Union concluded between the European Commission and Novavax. When taking the decision, the following considerations have been taken into account at that time: quantities of the COID-19 vaccine provided in 2021 exceeding significantly the population wishing to be vaccinated; significant quantities of Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine provided for 2022 and 2023; third place is indicated the possibility of providing additional quantities of Moderna vaccine in case of need by changing the decision on Bulgaria; prior consent to participate in a future contract of the European Commission with the company manufacturer Valneva; possibility to apply for doses of the vaccine of Sanofi Pasteur and Glaxosmithkline Biologicals and given the above at that time that sufficient quantities of vaccines of four different types of In order to supply quantities of the vaccine against the COVID 19 to Novax for the country at the moment, as you have noted, opportunities are being explored to secure it for the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u225	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The line, Professor Angelov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u226	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Serbenova, from your reply I understand that Rumen Radev's caretaker government has refused the delivery of the Novax vaccine by decision of the Council of Ministers No 591 of 11 August 2021. It is extremely important for me to get acquainted with the protocol of the working group which recommended this decision to the Minister of Health, and, of course, if it is not difficult for you to obtain this protocol and therefore the report of the Minister of Health to the Council of Ministers, with which it recommends this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u227	Thank you, Professor. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u228	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Angelov, I noted your desire to receive the protocol of the working group and the relevant motives. And in addition to my reply from a while ago, to inform you that in the event of a conversation with the representative of Sweden on the Management Board for vaccines against COVID-19, the European Commission was prepared to initiate a discussion on the conclusion of a bilateral agreement in order to ensure quantities for Bulgaria for the first quarter 2022. In the case of a decision to declare quantities of the vaccine, negotiations should be held with Sweden or another Member State. That is, we can no longer take advantage of the possibilities of the treaty, but we have entered into talks with Sweden, or negotiations for donation of doses of this vaccine by a Member State of the European Union, for Bulgaria. That's also an option. In both cases, of course, in order to conclude the agreements, the procedure laid down in the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria should be followed. If these agreements also include arbitration clauses and applicable foreign law, the agreements should also be ratified by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u229	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to the second issue, which is also from the National Representative Kostadin Angelov, concerning illegal acts and abuse of public funds of the Executive Director of Lozenets "Professor Radosvet Gornev." Here you go, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u230	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the issue has almost lost its relevance since it was asked more than two weeks ago, but still. At a regular meeting held on 17 November 2021, the KKCONPI adopted a Decision establishing a conflict of interest of the Executive Director of the Hospital of Lozenets and Associate Professor Radosvet Gornev. The proceedings started on an alert claiming that associate Professor Gornev voted in favour of a meeting of the Board of Directors and signed an additional agreement to his employment contract at the same time as an employer and employee, i.e. with himself. Documents from the Ministry of Health and Hospital Lozenets are requested during the verification of the signal. It has been found that as a public official, associate Professor Gornev has exercised powers of service in his own private interest. It was also found that on 9 July he signed the supplementary agreement with himself. Thus, by negotiating with himself, he received remuneration. In relation to the above, I ask that you reply to me at what date in 2021 the Minister of Health Stoycho Katsarov was informed by a member of the Board of Directors or another person about the illegal actions of Associate Professor Radosvet Gornev and what actions the principal then took. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u231	Thank you, Professor Angelov. Here you are, Professor Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u232	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Angelov, in the period June 2021. The Ministry of Health received signals from a member of the Board of Directors of the Hospital of Lozenets from 4 August 2021, 11 October 2021, 20 October 2021 and 27 October 2021 stating the alleged unlawful acts of the executive director of the medical establishment. The signal of 27 October 2021 was sent by the alerter and to the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office. The alerts are subject to checks by the Internal Audit Unit at the Ministry, the results of which the Minister of Health has been notified. On 12 October 2021, the Ministry of Health received a letter dated 37-00-197/12.10.2021 from the CPCONPI requesting information on an received alert to the Commission concerning the medical establishment. By letter No 37-00/197/24.11.2021, the Ministry of Health received Decision No RS-785-21-089 of 17 November 2021 of the KKCONPI concerning an established conflict of interest in relation to Associate Professor Dr. Radosvet Gornev. Assoc. Prof. Dr. Radosvet Gornev appealed the cited KKCONPI Decision and case No 12693/2021, according to the description of the Administrative Court of Sofia-City. Following the checks carried out by the internal audit unit and in relation to findings of infringements with the Protocol of the sole owner of the capital of the Hospital, Lozenets and EAD, a change was made to the composition of the Board of Directors of the medical establishment for a period until the event was held. As of January 19, 2022, Associate Professor Dr. Radosvet Gornev has not served as Executive Director of Hospital Lozenets-EAD, that is, the actions have been taken by the current government and the management of the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u233	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u234	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Serbenova, congratulations on your actions. I understand from your reply that the Minister of Health Stoycho Katsarov in the government of Rumen Radev has closed his eyes repeatedly, namely with the signals of irregularities received on 4 August, 11 October, 20 October, 27 October, the demands of KPCONPI and the KKCONPI's decision of 24 November. That is, he has not taken any action as the principal of the medical establishment. I have a supplementary question. Are there any protocols that came to the Minister of Health from the Internal Audit Unit to the Ministry of Health, which clearly show that the Executive Director of the Hospital was violating the law? If so, I ask myself the logical question: why did Minister of Health Stoycho Katsarov keep quiet and why did he conceal these illegal acts? The answer, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Bulgarian citizens, can only be one of us knows this answer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u235	Thank you, Professor Angelov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u236	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Angelov, the complaints have been submitted to the requests, which I quoted, the four signals of the Internal Audit Office in the Ministry and the results of the internal audit with the relevant protocols have been notified by the Minister of Health Dr. Stoycho Katsarov. In the reports of 8 September 2021 and 23 September 2021, the Council adopted Decisions (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] and (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). for checks carried out concerning the conclusion and execution of a contract between a law firm and the relevant hospital for legal services, there are in fact violations, which I will not now quote in detail, but these violations constitute part of the protocol by my colleagues from the Internal Audit Office, which they have introduced to the Minister of Health. In a report of 16 November also from the Internal Audit Officers for an audit commitment to consult on the accuracy of the facts presented in the alert of 11 October 2021, it is also acknowledged that the facts and circumstances presented in the report notes by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Hospital Lozenets EAD regarding the activities of the Executive Director are partly confirmed by the fact that they are: failure to comply with decisions taken by the Board of Directors, increased staff turnover and risk of non-covering the duties of the medical institution. A separate audit commitment was made in January 6 January due to all these signals and non-receiving actions already imposed by me on the consultation of staff members at the Lozenets Hospital for the period from June 2021 to November 2021. It has also been found that no employee evaluation forms have been drawn up, no requirement has been met by members who will not be burdened here by quoting them. The minutes of the comprehensive evaluation, including the name of the Executive Director, are endorsed by him and so on. Thank you for your attention. I think I confirmed your questions with this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u237	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to a question from the National Representative Kostadin Angelov concerning four procedures for purchase of rapid antigen tests for students. Here you go, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u238	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Serbenova, KKCONPI completed the inspection at the Ministry of Health for the four procedures for the purchase of rapid antigen tests for students and the public was aware of the conclusions of the inspection, namely: data were collected for changing the conditions of the procedures at the stage of signing a contract after the evaluation and ranking of the participants. It has been found that certain companies have been tolerated and certain supplies have been delayed, as a result of which companies have been benefited and this has led to damage to the budget of the Ministry of Health. In your interview on bTV on December 13th, you said: "I will get acquainted with how the public procurement for students' tests was organized. " - Why didn't one ministry want to organize it and organize the other? What were the supply problems? Here I also open a clamp to remind my esteemed MPs and Bulgarian citizens that Minister Denkov himself went out to the public and said that the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science were expelled from the Commission when the prices were opened and when the work of this committee was carried out and he himself heard from the media about the results of the action of this committee. In relation to the above, please answer me what violations did you find during the verification of the above procedures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u239	Thank you, Professor Angelov. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u240	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Angelov, the transparent spending of public funds and the care for the health of children are one of the priorities of the current government. The Ministry of Health organised four procedures for the provision of rapid antigen tests for students from 1 to 4 grade for the normal course of attendance training at school in October 2021. On 9 December last year, the Directorate-General for Anti-Corruption in the KKCONPI launched a check in the Ministry of Health on the procedure for the purchase of rapid antigen tests for students. The verification shall be subject to an alert containing allegations of serious infringements committed in the selection of contractors and their rankings, as well as in media publications. By decision of the KKCONPI, all verification materials were sent to the Prosecutor's Office, given the Commission's established existence of data on corruption crimes committed. In view of the problems identified by the Commission and with regard to the initiated new procedure for the delivery of tests for students from 1 to 12 grade, I gave my order from 6 January 2022 to the Internal Audit Unit of the Ministry of Health, it is obvious that these days it is one unit that is exclusively employed to carry out a comprehensive review of the four procedures for the delivery of tests for students from 1 to 4 grade. During the checks carried out, the auditors have made recommendations on improving the organisation of the procedure and compliance with the stated conditions which I have taken into account in this procedure, which has now been completed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u241	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u242	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I understand from your reply that the Commission, which has also checked the Internal Audit Unit, has found evidence of corruption actions by employees of the Ministry of Health. I will ask you on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 111 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to provide me with a copy of this audit commitment by the Internal Audit Office at the Ministry of Health. If you insist, I can submit my request in writing to the Ministry of Health to obtain this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u243	Thank you, Professor Angelov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u244	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Angelov, not corruption actions, but corruption risks in the way the procedure was formed. With regard to student tests from 1 to 4, KPCONPI has conducted an analysis of agreed prices, delivery times and changes in them that you mentioned from the 15 contracts available so far. On 18 January, the Special Prosecutor's Office initiated pre-trial proceedings on the basis of those materials provided by the KKCONPI for the four procedures in question for the delivery of rapid antigen tests that you quoted. In view of the pre-trial proceedings, the information specifically from these four procedures is so limited in volume, but I can confirm to you that, on the basis of the verification that I have commissioned, there has been a change in the liability clause of the contractors concerning the penalties provided for in implementation. In relation to the delivery procedures, the following recommendations have been given: to terminate the invitation of 30 December as the same conditions are repeated; to declare a new The announced and lots were also in line with the Ministry of Education's schedule and include quantities and delivery schedule, which was not made in previous procedures. In view of the specifics of the subject of delivery, we have also included representatives in the Commission of the Drug Executive Agency, which has not been done before either. The results of the Commission's work are public. I can say that the price they achieved on average in the three positions is about 30% on average lower than those procedures that you are quoting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u245	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We are moving on to a question from the MP Andrey Chorbanov regarding the introduction of a T-cell test to determine protective immunity against the coronavirus. Here you are, Professor Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! The theme concerning the pandemic and everything related to it as measures is the introduction of all types of repressions, vaccinations, other measures that may help limit the spread of the virus. Dealing with the pandemic is a topic that excites the entire society immensely. It is clear that the publicity required in such debates is extremely sensitive and sensitive to many people. The topics must be as public as possible. That is why solving each choice in terms of a decision for a test, for some restrition as measures, must be made public. A government committee was therefore formed to comment on these measures, to comment on everything concerning the pandemic. I, as a member of this committee, was very surprised today that the representatives of the Council of Ministers refused to publicly broadcast something that should not be a problem, given the interest of the public in this topic. That is why my question concerns the introduction of the T-cell test to determine protective immunity against coronavirus. It is important to know that in order to introduce any measures, they are based on any results of the actions of the population, whether in the form of certificates on the basis of these data, whether it be any restrictive measures, antibodies and the measurement of antibodies as such has long been shown that they cannot be an exceptional quantitative test, but can only be indicative, whereas T-cell immunity is the one that is truly protective, can actually tell what part of the population is protected and on the basis of which measures can be taken. Of course, this was also included in the coalition agreement, and the idea was for the government to have an idea of what was the percentage of protected people and on the basis of expecting something to happen. My question is: what steps have been taken towards the purchase of T-cell tests, the identification and validation of T-cell tests, and their introduction into laboratory practices, as well as as as part of government policy? The question that is related to all of the above is: why is the register of adverse reactions for any vaccines and medicines of the Drug Executive Agency not public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u247	Thank you, Professor Chorbanov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chorbanov, on 14 January 2022 the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria approved the National Plan for coping with the pandemic of COVID-19. The aim is precisely to create an adequate organisation to take the necessary actions in a timely manner to limit morbidity, assess new knowledge of disease development, as you rightly pointed out, to provide optimal treatment options according to the world-wide standards, both treatment and diagnosis. At the same time, this government approach is also aimed at what you have mentioned in coordination with the other ministries, as no doubt health decisions affect all areas of our lives. In this regard, point 4.1 of the long-term measures provides for exactly what has been referred to in your question.. conducting studies in the field of epidemiology and prevention of COVID-19. We are on the subject of the establishment of scientific advice from specialists in the field of epidemiology, virology, statistics, crisis management. The Council will plan the scope, method and manner of conducting these studies. Performing such a detailed study that you mentioned, including the T-cell screening, will be one of the tasks of this council in order to be able to make a real assessment depending on the situation and the available data that you mentioned. With regard to the second part of the question: why is the register of adverse drug reactions to the Drug Executive Agency not public, I inform you that it contains personal data and the public provision of information is not allowed in accordance with the legislation on personal data protection. As a Member State of the European Union, Bulgaria is part of the harmonised system for monitoring the safety of medicinal products. All adverse reactions reported in the Drug Executive Agency by various channels, including vaccines, shall be brought into a single European format and sent within the time limits set in the European database of adverse drug reactions Eudra Vigilance. Eudra Vigilance has been functioning since 2001 as a system of collection, management and analysis of reports of suspected adverse reactions authorised for medicinal products authorised within the European Union. The organisation of work shall include continuous monitoring of data and the implementation of an internationally standardised methodology for detecting new risks and monitoring of existing risks. In order to achieve the provision of maximum permissible information in compliance with the Personal Data Protection Regulation, the European Medicines Agency's access policy for the Eudra Vigilance database is also subject to multiple revisions and updates, given that this information must be made available to the public. The data in Eudra Vigilance is provided for public access in aggregated form and to this link that we quote in the reply, there is also an explanation for how to interpret it. Online access to the suspected adverse reactions reported to the European Medicines Agency is also possible in Bulgarian in a link that we have indicated in the reply, i.e. all reactions submitted to the Drug Executive Agency are transferred to Eudra Vigilance, and hence there is public access, including in Bulgarian. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u249	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Prof. Chorbanov, just before I give you the floor, to announce that the meeting will be extended by 10 minutes with a view to the declaration of the parliamentary group of GERB to 14.10 pm. Here you are, Professor Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u250	Thank you, Lord Chairman. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer. Of course, we have seen in the public domain the creation of this working group, which has to deal with and make decisions. What caused a slight disturbance was that finally there was a picture of the participants from the ministries participating in the group, but fellow clinicians tried to find the composition of the professional working group of listed virologists, immunologists, epidemiologists as a composition. It turns out that the list of these names is more secret than that of the guerrilla squad, Anton Ivanov, and they couldn't find it anywhere. This was an interest of society, as well as an interest would trigger the deadlines in which this would be given, because without pretending to be a mathematician, I can say that perhaps a month of February doing any T-cell tests and analyses would be pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u251	Thank you, Professor Chorbanov. Do you wish for the duplicate, Madame Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chorbanov, what I would like to add to my reply is that the T-cell screening board in question was included in the National Plan on January 14th, that is, two weeks ago. You may be referring to another group, but this one hasn't been created yet, so there's no way to find the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u253	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A message was received regarding the submitted draft decision by GERB-SDS regarding a reply to a question by letter No 47-254-00-13 of 28 January 2018, submitted at 13.25 pm. A request for a debate on the question No 47-154-058 of 14 December 2021 and a draft decision on the inquiry by the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev to the Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev on the role of the Ministry of Defence in protecting the state border and maintaining the security infrastructure was received. The proposal and the draft decision are signed by 59 MPs, the requirement of art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly more than one-fifth of the Members of the National Assembly to make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 101, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Hristov about the obligations of the state and municipal hospitals in the country. Here you go, Dr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Professor Serbenova, in recent years the Kovid crisis has shifted one of the main problems in Bulgarian healthcare. Public municipal hospitals are one of the most irregular paying agents who regularly do not pay their debts for a minimum of two or three years. In principle, their outstanding debts over the years have moved about half a billion, but lately they have managed to exceed this psychological limit. This is due, on the one hand, to objective factors My question is: how have the duties of medical institutions been moving over the last 10 years, including the overdue ones, and how many are there at the moment? In this regard: how were the same obligations of the two largest hospitals in the country moving? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u255	Thank you, Dr. Christov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u256	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Hristov, on the first question you asked about state institutions. As of 31 December, the total liabilities of the state-owned health care facilities, with more than 50% State participation in capital, amounted to 264 million. lv. This is as of 31 December 2011. Ten years ago. For a period of ten years, i.e. by 31 December 2021, the same were increased and from 264 million was 608 million. lv. The increase in absolute value is 344 million. lv. or 130%. As of 31 December 2011, the municipal hospitals, i.e. a ten-year period back, total liabilities of municipal hospitals amounted to 61 million. lv. For the ten-year period covered by your question, there is a trend for an increase as of 31 December................................................................................................... The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the The increase in absolute value was 118 million. BGN, or that's 193 percent. For comparison, the overdue debts of municipal hospitals of 33 million. lv. In 2011 it decreased to 30 million. lv. On 31 December 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 31 December 2020 to 31 December 2020. Your second question concerning specific medical facilities. As of December 31, 2011 for UMBALSM, N.I. Pyrogov "EAD." In total, the hospital's duties amount to 12 million. lv. for a period of ten years. As of 31 December 2020, the latter were increased and amounted to 56 million. BGN, i.e. for a 10-year period of 12 million. 56 million. lv. As of 31 December 2011, the medical establishment did not account for any overdue debts, but as of 31 December 2020, 10 years later, only the overdue debts amounted to 9 million. lv. In relation to the University Hospital "Alexandrovska" EAD. As of 31 December 2011, the hospital's total liabilities amounted to 9 million. lv. For a period of 10 years, i.e. by 31 December 2020, the same increased and amounted to 56 million. lv. As of 31 December 2011, the medical institution reported outstanding liabilities of 1 million. BGN and 10 years later, at 31 December 2020, the overdue debts amounted to 9 million. lv. As healthcare establishments are reported quarterly, preliminary data for 2021, i.e. for the past year, are currently collected and processed and may be further provided on demand, but the information requested on 30 September 2021 can be provided, of course, and in writing, i.e. by 30 September 2021, is state-owned medical establishments, including those you specifically mentioned in the questioning, the total liabilities are 558 million, of which the outstanding liabilities are 103 million. lv. Of course, as you mentioned, there are also objective factors to increase these obligations, so the management of the Ministry of Health has focused its efforts and resources in order to find a legitimate option for overcoming this general debt of medically brought aid. In this regard, changes have been made in the regulations and Regulation No 5 of 17 June 2019 on the validation of standards for financial activity applied by state and municipal hospital and complex oncology centres, with the aim of transparency of the information on the state of hospital care establishments, the data on key financial and medical and statistical indicators for public and municipal hospital care institutions are published on the website of the Ministry of Health, but the Regulation in question draws attention into action in recent years, and you refer to a larger period of time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u257	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Would you like a line? Here you go, Dr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u258	I thank Minister Serbenova, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, for the detailed information. As you can see, the painting turned out to be even worse than we thought. They've long been outnumbered by half a billion. You see, the amount goes to 800 million, of which more than half have been accumulated in the last 10 years. If you look at who the ministers have been in the last 10 years, there is no point in saying. And I would even ask to see against these duties of which minister they were made. The situation is clear, as it is clear, that we will all have to pay this money. Whether we'll pay for it next year or next year, but we'll pay for it. And this has been going on for more than 10 years, colleagues, and there are no measures. These duties were not done by doctors and nurses. Many of the doctors and nurses lost their lives receiving some symbolic money. These duties are done by incompetent managers and directors or more greedy. And they were made under the eyes of a whole series of ministers of GERB another topic is whether they have seen them at all and whether they have not participated in it. And here every day this GERB sets us up with a dinner party, an actuarial event, crying and tears in more than half the parliamentary time. Within this evening he teaches us, instructs us, even plays the role of a village teacher. And three of the prima donnas of the GERB in question [[(Reply from Desislava Atanasova, from the place:]] , three of the prima donnas...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u259	Mr. Christov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u260	...have been involved in the accumulation of the duties in question and are among those who are most actively teaching us. Next time you get up and start teaching us or our colleagues from.. We continue the Change.... or any other group, I will remind you of the 800 million. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u261	Mr. Hristov, thank you for your speech. Indeed, let us keep the good tone from making such definitions to specific groups. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS:]] I'll give you a chance. We have to wait for procedure. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u262	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear Dr. Hristov! The information is available and can be provided in breakdowns, such as, of course, there are wishes of a monthly, one-year-old, and, of course, a careful analysis needs to be carried out, as you mentioned, both on objective and subjective factors. We're prepared to provide that information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-28.u263	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That was the last question for you. Thank you for participating in today's meeting. That concludes the meeting for the day. The next will be held next week on Wednesday with an additional agenda announced. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
