ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats! Please register! 144 registered MPs. There's a quorum. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, the agenda for today includes: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY THE ENTITY OF TURN. 91 of the Rules of Organization and the Activities of People's Revelation. First of all, debates on questions by the MPs Stoyan Taslakov and Nikola Dimitrov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Governance Kalina Konstantinova on the state of the Bulgarian Post Office and then answers questions and questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u2	Declaration!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u3	Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! Mr. Chairman, for more than 24 hours, our entire society is excited by one question: who and why has put bars on the front door of the National Assembly... [[Noise, laughter, and cheering]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u5	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u6	Colleagues, I understand your excitement, but other questions are being asked. ...who and why ordered it, who will pay their installation and disassembly and the penalty for the administrative act imposed on the National Assembly? Mr. Chairman, you probably know, and you repeatedly stressed yesterday that in order to talk about parliamentaryism, there is not only the letter of the law, but the spirit, atmosphere, architecture, perception and trust. Yesterday was demonstrated by you and your colleagues necessarily respecting the letter of the law, not so much of the spirit. And according to the letter of the law, no one can destroy a building by installing any facilities resembling a cell structure. That is why the resonant question is: which law did you comply with, Mr. Chairman, in allowing this abuse with a monument of culture of national importance? Perhaps you, too, and the honourable Members, who so eagerly applauded my exit and this declaration, know some facts about the architecture of this building. Not only is this building one of the first to be built after the Liberation, as early as 1884 with the decision of Prime Minister Petko Karavelov, but is a symbol symbol of the independence of the Bulgarian state. Through this entrance, honourable colleagues and Mr. Chairman, the entrance with your bars entered Ferdinand to welcome the Bulgarian people after the declaration of Bulgaria's Independence to the Fourteenth Simple National Assembly. Under the inscription of the Bulgarian crest, the Union makes the force, you have installed, respected Change, bars, and metal fences have been against it for months now. What are you afraid of, gentlemen ruling, the Unification, or the Power? After all, the compound united you in a hybrid called government, and a team, a brotherhood of the honorable, you walked with signs: We are not afraid, you were the choice of those who empowered you, you respected the will of the people, gentlemen of the Democrats, and by this will you are in this Chamber. I don't know if you realize that even in the darkest times of totalitarian communist regime, no one has even allowed such a thing to happen to the building of the Bulgarian Parliament... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u7	Quiet, fellows!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u8	...I don't know if you realize that the ones you're protecting yourself from are your employer? Do you realize? Have you erected metal walls against them, or are you guarded by the power of discontent, from the righteous anger of men, from the possibility that someone might call you to account that you are ruining our country? Do you remember, Mr. Chairman, who signed the order for the installation of the bars? Because claiming that you are not the author of this decision means that someone else is making decisions in Parliament, claiming that you do not remember, is somehow inappropriate for your young age, claiming that someone has ordered you, is dangerous to the position you hold because of the Constitution you are responsible. And I don't want to think that someone could order you another one, for example, to dig a water pit around parliament or towers, or to put electricity on the bars. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Looking for indulgence in recommendations is inappropriate. Why did you do it, Mr. Chairman, and who will pay the bill? I don't know if you have some kind of a fetish for the bars. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Your Prime Minister has requested bars for the leader of the opposition. He got them, and 24 hours later, the court ruled that they were illegal. You requested bars for parliamentaryism, and after 24 hours you were ordered to remove them. Guys, this isn't funny. Take a lesson! Do not try anything else, for the people will not give you such a deadline. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Received written answers to questions and questions for the period 13 May 2022 from: - Minister Aleksandar Nikolov to a question from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva; to two questions from the National Representative Vladislav Panev; to a question from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev; to two questions from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; to six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from the National Representative Filip Popov; to a question from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; to a question from the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Asen Vassilev on a question from the National Representative Vladislav Panev; on a question from the National Representative Denitsa Nikolova; on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tashev; on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Asena Serbenova on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; and on a question from the National Representative Rositsa Kirova; - Minister Atanas Atanasov on three questions from the National Representative Hristinka Ivanova; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Yordan Karadjov on a question from the National Representative Vasil Stefanov; on two questions from the MPs Desislava Taneva and Maria Belova; on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on a question from the National Representative Stefan Apostolov; - Minister Dragomir Zakov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Klisurski; - Minister Ivan Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Mladen Shishkov; on a question from the MPs Zornitsa Stratieva and Alexander Dunchev; on two questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on two questions from the National Representative Petar Petrov; - Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova on a question from MP Hristo Gazhev; - Prime Minister Kiril Petkov on six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; and on a question from the National Representative Slavena Tocheva; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Cornelia Ninova on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister Nadezhda Yordanova on a question from the National Representative Bogomil Petkov; - Minister Nikolay Sabev to a question from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva; to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Nikolov; to three questions from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; to a question from the National Representative Ina Ivanova; to five questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova and two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Minister Teodora Gencovska on a question from the National Representative Ivan Klisurki. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Gajev. Then we will move on to discussions on questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! I'm taking a procedure in the manner of conducting the written responses that have just been announced. I would like to inform you that two of them have not actually answered my questions, which you have just said to Minister Radostin Vassilev and Minister Nikolai Subev. I have asked all the ministers questions about the composition of the political cabinet of the ministers, the deputy prime ministers and the prime minister and, accordingly, most have answered. You get two cases interests. The two who have not responded to the composition of their political cabinet are, in fact, these two ministers. I'm going to ask them some new questions today. I hope you will allow them, so that they can ultimately fulfil their parliamentary obligations, and therefore their parliamentary control duties. That's the first one. The second thing that impressed me here comes from the work of the administration of the National Assembly. I don't know if there are any new instructions or not, but for the first time, the names of the political offices are deleted. For those of the viewers who do not know, political cabinet are chief of cabinet, parliamentary secretary and advisors, the people who run the ministers' policies, because the ministers are busy people, can't do everything on their own. So I think it's public information about who these people are who really run the country. It turned out that for the first time this became personal data and was respectively censored on the website of the National Assembly. I'm giving you an example. I've asked the same question to both office offices since last year. One, by the way, was in the beginning of December of this legislation and respectively today to check on the website of the National Assembly, these names are public. Now it turns out that only for the regular office are the secrets. I hope that you will carry out checks and cancel this deletion because I think that publicity will add to the transparency of a government to know, after all, which are the political offices. I would also like to make another remark: Minister Bozidar Bojanov has already publicly announced them precisely because he does not think it is correct to delete such information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gadget, for bringing this matter to my attention. We'll check it out. The way you're leading it? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to support my colleague, Gajev. Just to ask you, when you extend the check, to extend it within the framework of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, as the same questions he is asking now, I have then asked for all the ministers, for the entire administration, for all the agencies. The answer was that it was personal data and that it could not be published by your ministers. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS: "I" are currently on the site.]] So, indeed, if it is not personal data, let them be returned retroactively and pay, wages and additional material incentives are shown to the Council of Ministers within the framework of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u13	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. For a replica-type procedure, Mr. Gajev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u14	To clarify the procedure we are talking about. It is good because it should be known that for the forty-fourth National Assembly, if you go back both for forty-two, and the third and so on, the names of the composition are public information and are uploaded to the website and can now check them. I have asked questions about the remuneration of the members of the Cabinets from there is answered correctly, by the way, from all three Cabinets so far, that this is personal information, and the remuneration is determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. If this is going to be published, I'm really curious to see them right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u15	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. We'll check that out. We're moving on to the questioning debate. The inquiry was from the MPs Stoyan Taslakov and Nikola Dimitrov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Effective Governance Kalina Konstantinova on the state of the The questions by the MPs Stoyan Taslakov and Nikola Dimitrov were answered in the plenary session on 13 May 2022, Friday. At the same meeting, 52 MPs from the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament Continued the Change, the Parliamentary Group of the "Democratic Bulgaria" and the Parliamentary Group of the "There is such a people" and the parliamentary group of the "BSP" for Bulgaria have tabled proposals for discussions on the questioning together with the Draft Decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for the debate on the questioning and the draft decision were sent to the MPs in electronic form on 13 May 2022, Friday. The submitted draft decision to be voted on is: The draft decision submitted by 52 MPs from the parliamentary groups of I remind you that the time that the parliamentary groups have during the debate is a total of one hour: I give the floor to the importers to present the proposal and the draft decision. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Last Friday, after asking fellow MPs, we took advantage of the opportunity given to us by art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in order to propose to the National Assembly to take an audit decision for the Bulgarian Post Offices. I don't think anyone would mind such an audit, given that the post office is a very important institution. In all European countries, this is the face of every country. In Bulgaria, perhaps most of you know, others do not, but the post office employs 9000 people. There are a total of 2973 post offices all over the country - 633 of them in cities, 2340 in villages. In fact, the post office is a very important infrastructure that has been neglected for a very long time. We have therefore decided that it is important, as the National Assembly, that we enter into our functions and assign an independent body, which is the Court of Auditors, to carry out an audit, and I will therefore read to you the very proposal that we have for a decision: "1." Instructs the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance with the financial management of the Bulgarian Post Office for the period 1 January 2020. 30 April 2022 2. The audit shall start on 23 May 2022 and the deadline for submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors shall be 29 July 2022. It is important for us that this audit be carried out as quickly as possible in order to be able to step on it and the new vision that we have prepared for the development of the post office to step on specific data made by an independent body. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I am opening a discussion on the debates. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! We will support the ruling coalition's request for the full revision of the Bulgarian Post Office. It is good to know what has happened to this company in recent years, but agree that even more than a month after the attack of the Bulgarian Post Office they still do not work at full capacity. In my speech, I would like to address several issues and make a concrete proposal to you, Mrs. Konstantinova. For the people of the villages of the Bulgarian Post Office in a large part of their activities perform social activity there people receive postal records from their children and grandchildren, there they pay their household bills and also receive their pensions. First of all, the problem is that there are still people with unpaid pensions and as strange as it sounds, there are also people with unpaid Easter allowances. I know about three cases. Another significant problem is that in some less populated areas where there are no regular lines of long-distance transport, the Bulgarian Post Offices are the only place where people can pay their household bills. Here comes the big problem that people are starting to get notice of blackout. Agree with us that in the 21st century the electricity of people in their villages is a big problem. Here comes our proposal to you, Mrs. Konstantinova: make a meeting with representatives of the ERP associations, introduce them to the problems of the post office and agree conditions to protect the interests of Bulgarian citizens in the villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u19	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any lines to Mr. Dimitrov? I can't see. Georgi Gkozdeykov for speech. Halil Letifov is also listed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Although I am not a financier, I have bothered to read this report, presented by you, and I ask myself: was this company managed effectively as a commercial company such a state, because there is a trend from 2015 to last year If we make an analogue with the management of private capital companies, whether this discipline would likewise be tolerated to end the years of losses and this systematic underfinancing of the Bulgarian Post Office led to an accumulation of over 80 million. lv. And, yes, we from the Parliamentary Group of "Keep the Change" will support this project for carrying out an audit by the Court of Auditors, and we will insist that the reasons which led to this financial result of "Bulgarian Posts" EAD be really explored and presented to the public. And I really hope that, with the funds laid down under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, this will be changed and from now on, the management of this company will show a real result, as the services of the Bulgarian Post Office have a very significant social impact for the society. We'll keep an eye on the outcome from now on. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u21	Thank you, Mr. Gkozdeykov. Are there any lines to Georgi Gkozdeykov? I can't see. To speak, Halil Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! I welcome today's debate on asking, including the draft decision that has been proposed. I will propose to the importers an editorial amendment to you, Mr. Chairman, in the Draft Decision. Point 2: The deadline for the submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors is July 29, 2022. "Let July be replaced by August, and I have the following arguments in this direction. August is also a vacation month for the National Assembly, but even if it is working for the National Assembly, the society is on vacation, enjoying its summer vacations and holidays, and the topic is too serious. It is unlikely that anyone will be opposed to carrying out a thorough audit, but it will also be effective. Then to be effective and the debate itself, which will be, understand, in active mode, and will not be in the summer regime in August, when the inspection itself will be completed quickly, and the debate itself will be beaten up quickly from the results of this check. These are my main arguments in this regard, and given what is happening at the moment, with the cyber attack, with the delay in the remuneration of the employees inside, I think there is a reason for prolonging this check as efficiency. Secondly, the debate should be really interesting and public, so I am making this proposal. With regard to the Bulgarian Post Office, we had an interesting debate when changing the Postal Services Act, transferring state policy from the portfolio ministry to a representative Deputy Prime Minister. Currently this is Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova, but there remain a number of questions about the future of the employees of the Bulgarian Post Office, of the service provided by the Bulgarian Post Office, and what Mr. Nastimir Ananiev said that more than 2300 of the post offices are in the small settlements. The Recovery and Sustainability Plan lays down one point as a project: To ensure the pilot deployment of charging stations for electric cars, for charging at the end point, in up to 100 selected settlements in rural areas, located on routes in tourist activity. "There are several questions here: firstly, is this state aid? Is such a notification of this State aid received? Secondly, how will these 100 settlements be selected in the presence of 2300 and above? What will be the criteria? How exactly is this thing going to be done? Next we read: The investment will be in full compliance with the principles and guidelines of the EU instrument for 5 G cybersecurity, where necessary, a preventive analysis of the risk of suppliers, the use of certified components and processes, as well as continuous testing and audit will be carried out. This is great, of course, and it is very important, only that in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan 5G connectivity has dropped out as a project and there has been done something that is not clear to this day either for the sector Not to mention that because of the change that happened in the Recovery Plan, there was also an investment that was committed by mobile operators to this connectivity. In fact, we are limiting connectivity, which, understand, to some extent, is becoming a more complex task in terms of performance, but a more complex task becomes cybersecurity itself. But let's go back to the universal postal service. One question stands with a terrible burden and we owe an answer to the public and to all working employees of the Bulgarian Post Office. We know what the universal postal service means, which includes the following activities: acceptance, transport and delivery of domestic and international postal consignments, correspondents, small packages, printed works, consignments for blind and under-seeing persons, acceptance, transport and delivery of domestic and international postal parcels up to 20 kg and so on and so on. By contract this service is replaced by the Bulgarian Post Office for a period of 15 years, which is promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, pc. 102 of 2010 This contract expires in 2025. The question is how do we protect the performance of the universal postal service? Will this contract be continued? Will we improve the working conditions of the workers and employees in the Bulgarian Post Office in order to preserve this institution? She's not just a cameraman. Are we going to return its competitiveness, which has been taken away in favour of other operators, so that these settlements do not lose their status too, given that we welcome the idea of doing administrative services there in the Post Office, given that these remote and weakly populated areas do not have access to administrative, state authorities, services and Post Offices are the only state institution that exists in these small settlements. Depopulation is largely that reason. We're shutting down schools. There is a problem with transport, with the connectivity we are talking about in over 60% of the settlements in the country. We shut down hospitals, offices, and the Post Offices, they will have no connection with state institutions, and this is a serious question to which we owe an answer. We talk, we have good intentions, of course, but the questions remain: how will this be implemented, will the rights of employees and employees of the Bulgarian Post Office be protected as an institution, will the investee be effective in them, so as to retain their status and be competitive, will the rights of employees and employees of the Bulgarian Post Offices be maintained, which deserve a decent pay for their work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u23	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Replices to Halil Letifov? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Letifov! You mentioned one of the four activities that will be on PWU. Actually, let's say, maybe, people who aren't aware that we're talking about a measure that's approved at a value of 101 million in total. But the measure that you said is the fourth measure, in fact, by the least means separated, and this is for the charge stations only for 1.9 million of that 101 million. Also the focus of these 100 locations is in remote and hard-to-reach places, but which correspond to the descrips for traveling, for places that are used, I imagine them, for example, in Smolyan, in Kardzhali, as locations for most of them. However, it may be more interesting because you have also addressed activity 3 in your speech, which is related to the provision of 450 telemedicine apparatus precisely for remotely accessible locations. You know that over 200,000 Bulgarian citizens live at least 20 km from their municipal center, where they can usually receive medical care. For me, this measure is also important, as in many places, as it is said, there is no one to measure your blood pressure, to measure your blood sugar, and many other minimal things to do. And the idea is to have 450 telemedicine devices that are digitally connected and submit to one person's file and should have access to this file so that he can monitor how and whether the patients he cares about in any way, I mean, are not in any bad condition. I will only say, as my time is running out, for Activity 1 there is 24 million allocated, and for Activity 2 - 68, for Activity 3 -- 6.7, and, as I said, for Activity 4 -- which you mentioned -- 1.9 million. lv. A total of 101 million that we will assist through the PWI for development and for the new face of the Post Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Any other lines to Halil Letifov? I won't. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Letifov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! Mr. Ananiev, I generally agree with your statement by accepting some of the arguments, but therefore also affected the effectiveness of the measures implemented. We will fight cybersecurity, and most of it will go to this by means, but this does not directly correspond to the effectiveness of service and connectivity. We will see this only after these projects are implemented, on the one hand. On the other hand, it's great that we're going to invest so many millions on telemedical equipment to measure blood pressure. At the same time, however, the policy of NHIF and the Ministry of Health is to limit the clinical pathways, funding, access to municipal and state hospitals, with the idea of becoming 100. These remote settlements you're talking about will have someone who can measure their blood pressure, find out there's a health problem, but there won't be anywhere to treat them. This should not be a tear-off policy or a partial approach. This is great, but there really must be a connectivity, since we will invest so much money in this equipment to find that there is really a health problem the respective Bulgarian citizen we need to find and who to treat him to be hospitalized. If the two policies do not correspond, this expenditure will be absolutely unnecessary, because we will decorate the hospitals, of course, will not open this topic at the moment, but there must be connectivity once we have established that there is a problem, we must also give the solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u27	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The hacker attack on the Bulgarian Posts in fact showed how for many years they have been systematically unsupported and systematically ignored the security of the personal data of the people who benefit from their services, as well as the effectiveness of the services itself, as said colleagues. In fact, our role as National Assembly is to request information, to seek a quick solution to problems, as well as to seek legal changes so that this does not happen again. Because, let's not lie to each other, it's a dangerous precedent that actually affects, unfortunately, the most vulnerable group of the community right now. Quick action is needed, first of all, to clarify the circumstances under which it has come to the collapse, but also the root causes and primary sources for the entire activity of Bulgarian Post Offices and the lack of activity of Bulgarian Post Offices and here we must give a clear signal to the citizens that in fact their data, their pensions are in safe hands, that they will not be lost and that postal services, no matter where they are located, will be effective for them. We from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and we support the proposals Project for a solution and in this case I will make an editorial proposal. Since colleagues from the DPS have proposed extending the deadline for drawing up by one month, then I propose that we extend the scope and start it from 1 January 2019, i.e. by one year to extend the scope of the verification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u29	Mr. Kirilov, your editorial proposal is in this section. 1 For the period from 1 January 2020 to Thank you. Are there any lines to Blagovest Kirilov? Stoil Stoilov for a line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I agree with you, I just wanted to fix you a little bit. This is no precedent, we have seen such an attack and in the past the public remembers most of the cyber attack against the National Revenue Agency. It seems that for many, many years, cybersecurity has not been the priority of the previous governments of the state. I agree and let us work together to improve the cybersecurity of the entire administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u31	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Is there a second line to Blagovest Kirilov? I can't see. A hole? No. Any other speeches? I'm recording you, Mr. Petrov. I give the floor to Mrs. Konstantinova and then I record you for speech. [[Reply from Kalina Konstantinova.]] You're giving him the spot? All right, here you go, Mr. Petrov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the House, Dear Minister! First of all, I would like to make an editorial proposal in point. 1 of the Decision, where the current period is from 1 January 2020. Dear Members of Parliament, I believe that the time limit could be slightly increased with a view to making the verification more comprehensive. I personally did not see any reason why, from January 1, 2020 exactly, and why we should not increase it by two more years, for example, from January 1, 2018. I believe that in this way, we could verify a more serious activity carried out by the Bulgarian Post Office back in time and possibly, if any violations were found, the relevant sanctions could be imposed. Let us not limit ourselves to 2020. However, damages can be sought in a five-year period back in time. I very much hope that the more comprehensive this verification is, the more detailed analysis we will receive afterwards, the deadline that has been set by 29 July 2022. So my editorial proposal is in point. 1 the time limit to be not 1 January 2020 but 1 January 2018, i.e. from 1 January 2018 to 30 April 2022, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u33	Thank you, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u34	Finally, Mrs. Konstantinova, we are looking at a draft decision for a past period, respectively for an audit of a past period, but let us at least focus your attention on the current problems of the Post Office. I'll give you a quick example. 10 days ago I went to a branch of the Bulgarian Post Office, especially in Lozenets, to try to post a letter to the United States. They turned me down for a reason that they're not working right now, they can't send a letter to the United States, and they directed me to a private courier who, unfortunately for me, took a larger amount of money from me. I therefore believe that I have damaged a state-owned company in favour of a private company. Please do something if you want this portfolio to be yours. Do something so that the state company takes money first, instead of paying more to private companies, as we should be able to send letters abroad, including to the United States of America. This is my personal request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u35	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to Peter Petrov? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Konstantinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I wanted to make a few comments on the things that were said. You know that every time I am here, I am terribly happy that so often the topic of the Post Office is discussed and about your broad commitment to all the topics that can be discussed. So I'm very happy to see that you've met the ticket on the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. So you have a big commitment to operating even the Post Office. That makes me very happy. A comment I wanted to make on the first proposal and recommendation from the National Representative from the National Revival. Let's go backwards. There are no unpaid pensions and Easter allowances. There's always been all the money you needed. The process is paper. If there are any who, for the reason that registration at a permanent address, should have received their pension and therefore not reached, can make a phone call and go to a place where their money is waiting for them. So these are extremely few isolated cases and are not a matter of any obstacle that stops or lacks money. So 100% of the eligible pensions have been paid. On the line of payment of accounts, this is a market service that the Post Office provides, that is, they do not have the exclusiveity to provide it, there are many other places where people can pay their bills. But in these stations, which are far away, it is the fact that the next place where they can pay their bills is much further away. Just to say that it's not an exclusive service that only the Post Office offers. In this order of thought, from the old leadership on the third day of the attack, seeing its scale and the damage it caused, it was at my request that a letter was sent to all companies to be warned that it would not be known how long it would take to recover this service. What I just checked and asked, because you know that the management is responsible for the operation, is that there is also confirmation from two of the largest companies that the accounts will not be suspended for this reason in these remote locations. So measures have been taken from the first day, and I think people, given the stress that this whole attack has caused, we don't have to strain them anymore on things that we don't need to. On the line of the stations for electric cars this is a horizontal policy that you can see in many of the tickets in the Plan. There it is quite logical and resonant to take advantage of the wide network of the Bulgarian Post Office, so if you look at the whole Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability, the idea is to make a comprehensive network around the country in different places, such as the Post Office, given some of its remote locations, will cover exactly in this horizontal analysis those places that are farther away and are most logical to be attached to some of the stations. Let me also draw attention to the investment related to the digitalization of the Post Office. Bear in mind that these two thirds of the ticket, over 68 million under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, have been all the time since the first day, because this ticket has been written since the beginning of this term. It has always intended, in addition to improving information security, to improve digitalisation in the company, which is related to the provision, improvement and modernisation of all the services they provide, i.e. universal postal service, and everything. Not only new services, and not just additional activity, and not only information security, which is rather an operational moment. So I would like to thank you once again for debating today and I hope that you will take the decision that has been tabled so that the Court of Auditors will carry out an audit of the Bulgarian Post Office. For the wider period I think, the better. As a principal, I have used all possible legal mechanisms to determine whether there are and exactly what the abuses committed in the management of the Bulgarian Post Office are, and this is the way to subsequently claim responsibility of the persons concerned, for whom, as a result of the checks are established, if they have been committed, violations. As you know, I personally, as the principal of the company, have initiated all possible checks that the Law allows me to do. In the first month of my inauguration, I appointed the Internal Audit of the Council of Ministers to check the state and ownership of the properties in the Bulgarian Post Office for the last two years. I referred to the Minister of Finance at the beginning of months ago to exercise its powers of emergency inspection, which ADFI should carry out on the financial situation of the company for the last two years. After the results of the Internal Audit check, I also prepared a signal to the NRA regarding whether the state budget has been damaged and how much, as well as for carrying out a verification of compliance with the tax legislation in the Post Office. I also referred to the attack and the Interior Minister to commit to actions by the Cyber Security Unit at DGBOP, as well as the Chairperson of the SANS, to commit the actions of the competent cybersecurity structures to carry out the relevant checks. The same appeal to the Minister of Interior shall contain a request for the Economic Police and other competent authorities, at its discretion, to carry out appropriate investigative actions to collect data to refer the prosecution to the existence of criminal offences, if available. In April, as I told you in the Committees and at the previous hearing last Friday, we received the results of the Internal Audit on the state of the estate and their management. The results are quite tragic. At the moment, the verification of ADFI continues, with the expectation that the report will be ready at the beginning of June. It is important to note that in the Internal Audit report, as I shared with you before, there are more than 30 findings of violations in the way of management of property of the Bulgarian Post Office, about some of which we have already told publicly, such as the property in Pamporovo, dedicated for 2 BGN. on a high-season room. It is your power to assign the Court of Auditors to carry out the verification that is within its competence, and I trust that you will exercise this power. Moreover, the Court of Auditors will carry out this examination with a special priority, given the great public attention and importance of the Bulgarian Post Office. I believe that all of you, as MPs, will defend the public interest and you will vote for the full transparency of the activities of one of the most important enterprises in the country. It is the only way that the guilty who brought him into this sad state can bear the full responsibility of the law. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Konstantinova. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Actually, I'm going to make an editorial proposal, too. As the title of the Decision should reflect the questioning, so I make a proposal in the title of the Project This is the text that is present in the questioning of the MPs Stoyan Taslakov and Nikola Dimitrov. It just has to be one-to-one in both the draft decision and the decision itself, so I'm making the editorial proposal. Before we go to the vote, I will read the draft decision. Project! DECISION in connection with debate on questioning, No 47-254-05-79, of 28 April 2022 by the MPs Stoyan Taslakov and Nikola Dimitrov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Effective Governance on the State of the Bulgarian Post Office The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Court of Auditors to audit compliance with the financial management of the Bulgarian Post Office for the period from 1 January 2020 to 30 April 2022. 2. The audit shall start on 23 May 2022 and the deadline for submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors shall be 29 July 2022. Editorial proposals are: In the title made by me, after the end of the text to add a dash and the text to the unpaid salaries of employees and the hacking attack to accurately reflect the questioning. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 Editorial proposals concern the audit period. The proposal of Blagovest Kirilov is to replace the period of 1 January 2020 by 1 January 2019. That is to say to extend the period by one year. On the other hand, Peter Petrov's proposal is to replace 1 January 2020 with 1 January 2018, so that the scope can actually be extended by two years compared to the main proposal. And Halil Letifov's proposal in t. 2 is the deadline for the submission of the final report of the Court of Auditors to be no 29 July 2022, which is two days before the beginning of the summer vacation of the National Assembly of Rules of Procedure, but to be 29 August 2022. So these are the proposals. Let's move on to the vote. First of all, I put to the vote the editorial proposal which I have made and which concerns the title of the Decision. They voted 165 MPs: 165, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We move on to the editorial proposals under point 1. 1. First of all, I put to the vote Peter Petrov's proposal because it is the broadest in scope and it concerns the period for which the audit to be carried out to be from 1 January 2018 to 30 April 2022 and not from 2020. Vote 157 MPs: 57 against 12, abstention 88. [[Reply.]] We're overreacting. Vote 157 MPs: 53, Against 9, abstention 95. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next editorial proposal. It is by Blagovest Kirilov, again concerning the period for which the audit is to be carried out. Voting mode. They voted 161 MPs: 152, against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. [[Reply.]] Revoting? We are revising the proposal of Blagovest Kirilov. They voted 161 MPs: 155, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We move on to the latest editorial proposal of Halil Letifov: "2." The deadline for submission of the report to the National Assembly shall be 29 August 2022 and not 29 July. Voting mode. Vote 162 MPs: 141, against 6, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. We move on to the vote on the main text, I will read it to you together with the editorial amendments adopted: Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on question No 47-254-05-79 28 April 2022 of the MPs Stoyan Taslakov and Nikola Dimitrov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Governance on the State of the Bulgarian Posts The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Court of Auditors to audit compliance with the financial management of the Bulgarian Post Office for the period from 1 January 2019 to 30 April 2022; 2. The audit shall start on 23 May 2022 and the deadline for submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors shall be 29 August 2022. Voting mode. Vote 166 MPs: 166, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. With this we have exhausted the debates and the adoption of a decision on the questioning of the MPs Stoyan Taslakov and Nikola Dimitrov to Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova. We move on to the part of parliamentary control concerning answers to questions and questions. You've come before for a procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. President, I would like to ask you a few questions and I think there are many more questions that we have prepared for Minister Rashkov about the militia that we witnessed during the July and November elections 2021. Along with this thing, Mr President, you know very well that the relevant documents have been requested for each of the specific cases, and at your request there are already more than 150 requests for each particular occasion and case. The first thing I see, Mr. Chairman, is that the Parliamentary Control Programme will once again have no opportunity for Minister Rashkov to answer the questions asked. But the second, which is more disturbing, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, is that until today, Mr. Chairman, on none of the cases we have received documents that we are trying to throw here from this tribune, some papers are fluttering Mr. Rashkov, and claims that they are documents relevant to the questions asked. I therefore appeal to you, Mr. Chairman, to take on your role as Chairman, to make a program for Mr. Rashkov to answer his questions, on the one hand; on the other hand, to do your job as Chairman and to insist that Mr. Rashkov present the documents that we have asked him. Otherwise, it becomes clear to us as a political party that I am finishing, Mr. President, because at the time he was Minister of Interior and may have participated in this militia, so he does not answer any questions and has no control over this period. [[the President signals that time has run out]] But, Mr. Chairman, you become an accomplice. Obviously, the minister must also be replaced to have control over this period, and perhaps he will have to replace the President, and to have control over the ministers as well. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u39	And thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Regarding oral questions, we have been notified by four members of the Council of Ministers, one of which is Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov, that due to urgent commitments they will not be able to participate in the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u40	We apologized for today, but for everyone...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u41	Either way, Mr. Karadayi, Mr. Rashkov was quite far back in the line for the ministers' answers, and we discussed this at the Conference of Presidents as the last parliamentary review before today ended with questions to him. So for today's parliamentary control he was backwards. I hope we can do more questions today, so the next time...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u42	And we're not getting any papers!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u43	Within the oral answer you can not get the documents. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Within the oral answer, I don't see how you'll get it. On written questions, yes. Mr. Karimansky is for a procedure in the manner of conduct. Are you asking him to sign up for the transcript?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u44	This is a reason to ask for your resignation. There is a Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u45	In writing questions, Mr. Karadaye, you can get, of course. Here you go, Mr...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u46	Please, you're an accessory to this trial!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u47	If you want, I'll wait for you to finish...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u48	No, come in, Mr. Karimansky. [[Executive lines by MP Mustafa Karadaye.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u49	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For another week, my question to the Minister of Culture is postponed, and this time the argument with which the Minister postpones my question, I really cannot understand it. I printed out the letter of the Minister of Culture and I find it very strange the argument inside the organization and my presence at events related to the celebration of the Day of Bulgarian Education and Culture. First of all, I cannot admit that a minister is engaged in organizational work on a case even such a celebration as is the celebration of Bulgarian education and culture! Secondly, I checked.. he does not participate in the delegation to Italy, but if he participates, please correct me. Thirdly, should the organizational qualities of the Minister be more important than the question of a Member of the National Assembly? I can't accept this thing. And I very much ask the Minister to clarify whether he is here, why is he not really present in the Chamber once again? There is no way to accept that a minister is engaged in organizational activities and does not engage in politics and all that the people's representative is interested in and should answer here in the Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u50	Thank you. Mr. Karimansky, I agree with your arguments regarding the apology.... so to speak, the apology reasons. Let's start with questions and questions. First of all, a question by the National Representative Hristo Gazhev about the government's policy for receiving people fleeing from war in Bulgaria. Kalina Konstantinova will respond to the Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Governance. Here you are, Mr. Gadget, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, we have warned you for another December of this month that this apology note will become a door in a field, it seems to be already happening and the government is dissatisfied. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Minister, colleagues! I'll avoid the preface of my question. It is related to the government's subsequent reaction to the refugee crisis in Bulgaria, or rather what we will do with those who received temporary protection status Ukrainian citizens in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria Here I was impressed that on Wednesday a decision of the Council of Ministers was adopted to grant 60 million targeted funds to support refugees in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Now out of 148 million, which the instrument from the European Commission has given us an opportunity, we are using 30, perhaps further will be used precisely, but the interesting thing is their distribution itself. They are intended for three main purposes: the provision of basic food and non-food goods at the adoption stage, i.e. for new entry, support for non-governmental organisations and support for regional administrations. This clearly shows the government's refusal to cooperate with municipalities as they are not included at all. But what's interesting is the very distribution of funds - 26 million of these 60 million are for educational integration and day care, which is correct and should be included in principle, but the interesting thing is that the beneficiaries see that the state education system and kindergartens are excluded here, because otherwise they will rely mainly on non-governmental organizations, perhaps this and in the context of a statement by people from your team, that they are learning remotely anyway, what they need more to be involved in the education system, which, at least in my opinion, is an extreme mistake. Five million are provided for domestic transport after the initial reception, i.e. to accommodation centres or accommodation places wherever they are already, and 30 million for the accommodation of refugees through the Ministry of Tourism and initial aid for basic food and non-food goods. So let's say that non-food aid is off the table and all 30 million goes to pay for the accommodation of refugees and at the reduced rate of 40 levs. 15 BGN, as the government plans to do, that's 66 thousand. 666 nights per month, accommodated according to official data in hotels 63 thousand. souls, that is, money in about a month. The question is, what do we do next month? Not to mention that the big problem is where these people will actually be accommodated, because once they are expelled from the government on May 31st, I am very curious to know if there is an opportunity, now an organization where they will be accommodated, because the sad thing in all history is that according to the data of the State Agency for Refugees there is currently a tide of people registered in Bulgaria with temporary protection status, i.e. people prefer to return to the war rather than remain protected here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u52	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Konstantinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, before the time goes by, can I ask you a question on procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u54	You can come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u55	Great! Given that 99% of Mr. Gajev's question is different from what he has as a question asked to me, I will answer him.........................................................................I don't mind telling him in essence about what he asked, but given the fact that the question he has been publicly on the Parliament's website for ten days and which is full of false and incorrect statements that I want in my response to disprobate, what should we do? Do you mind reading the real question with the things that are quoted inside? I, if you give me 30 more seconds, will answer, first of all, the question that has been submitted and who has been sitting on the site publicly for about ten days. And second of all, I'm gonna answer the extra question, because I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u56	I'm sure I'll give you 30 more seconds. And, of course, answer what you're asked as a question if there's anything extra in here that Mr. Gajev has said, outside the question, answer him as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u57	Okay, so I'll refer to his question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u58	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u59	Because he asked almost nothing of the question that was signed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u60	The question is, what's the policy?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u61	Dear Mr. Gajev, before I answer directly to your question, I am obliged, as I have just explained, to refute all the false claims that you quite frivolously articulate from this high tribune an act which I find not only inappropriate but also irresponsible, given the position you hold. I find it completely unacceptable to generate false news from MPs, given the fact that perhaps in those 10 days you have realized your error in the data and the question you have asked, so now you have escaped from it and are asking a brand new question. The only true statement in the so submitted question to me by you is from the first introductory paragraph of your questioning that there are currently over 100 thousand in Bulgaria. The man fleeing the war in Ukraine. From then on, either a deep ignorance of the reports of the High Commissioner for Refugees and the European Commission, or experience very elementary, and failure to manipulate the information. A total of 270 thousand arrived in Bulgaria after February 24th from Ukraine. Souls. The difference between arriving and remaining is enormous. The first is those who pass transit through Bulgaria, and the second is those who choose to take shelter in Bulgaria. That is why Bulgaria is actually seriously affected and affected by this crisis, given that 102 thousand. people number more people than the entire population of Shumen region, or 1.5% of the entire population of the country, which automatically puts us on the list of the most affected countries in Europe. And we've been doing just fine for the last three months. At the same time, just to remind you that in the first three months of the Syrian refugee crisis during the reign of GERB in 2013 for 7 thousand. 144 refugees GERB created incredible chaos and crisis from Sofia to Harmanli. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Not to mention the inhumane conditions they lived in for months, running away from the war then. Perhaps a small part of you remember what the Military ramp centers, the Hostile, Harmanli were like, misery, lack of hot water, food, medical care and basic conditions for a normal life there and no chance of integration of 7 thousand. The man, against the backdrop of 102 thousand. The guy. The question of where the others will be spent because this was what you asked first, two thirds of the REACT-EU program is again inaccurate because this 100 million. BGN, which you insinuate that will not be targeted against the refugees, this 100 million. lv. they have already been spent exactly as agreed in the months before the war and will cover the costs incurred under programmes to help small and medium-sized businesses deal with the crisis, i.e. the remaining money from this tranche. euros will be used to help refugees and I will tell you in more detail the whole context of what you asked in a moment. But before that I return to another false statement in your question, which you conveniently did not read. The issue of temporary protection not only started a month after the decision of the Council of Ministers, but on the contrary, five days later, on 15 March. I remind you that Bulgaria was one of the first countries to transpose the European Union Temporary Protection Directive, although the administrative preparation that we inherited from you for this was absolute zero. By March 15, this year, refugees could register for protection in three cities, in total, in digital and speech, five desks in the country. At this point, temporary protection can be granted in over 90 settlements in the country, over 120 locations in 214 desks, five to 214! Despite the tragic legacy you have bequeathed to us, Bulgaria ranks first in percentage registrations for temporary protection. This percentage today is 99%. Do you know what this percentage is for the countries quoted earlier by you, which are in your question, which is why you did not mention them? You don't know or maybe that's why you changed it, because you would never do me this favor to ask me that question. In Poland the percentage is 50.7, in Romania the percentage is 31, and in Hungary 5.6. And your claim that there is a risk that people under temporary protection will be left without a roof, I can only classify as ridiculous. Bulgaria is obliged to provide shelter to all people with temporary protection for the entire period of temporary protection, which is currently 24 February next year. After providing one thanks to the extremely successful public-private partnership with the hotels, we will continue to do so at a price of 15 BGN. per person per day in state municipal bases and in all accommodations from the national Trade Register, which wish to volunteer to participate in the new program. The common bed base of hotels of one and two stars alone has more than 175 thousand beds, and the government bases have more than 33,000 beds, so we are talking about a total capacity of over 200 thousand beds, with the maximum need of 60 thousand people, who are currently accommodated in hotels by sea. So whatever concerns you may have had, there is no basis for them, because the people fleeing the war will not only be left without a roof but will be accommodated in more cozy places than the miserable camps in which your government has accommodated Syrian refugees. And in view of all that has been said so far, I can answer your question as to what is the government's policy of providing protection for those fleeing the war in just one way. The policy of the government of Bulgaria regarding refugees for the first time, Mr. Gazhev, is correct. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u62	Time more or in a line, because he's gonna ask me about the money to explain?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u63	What he's gonna ask is I can't be sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u64	I'm okay to answer for the money, if you want to ask me anything else and I'll answer you together.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u65	Here you are, Mrs. Konstantinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u66	I've already explained about the 148 million, about 48 of them being rerouted. The mechanism to redirect is what the European Commission gives us is flexible, so not spent on the funds agreed on under all European programmes that could not be absorbed can be targeted at refugees. This applies to all operational programmes plus REACT-EU. So that's where the $48 million was raised. EUR, are the residuals of REACT-EU, and about 100 million. lv. are the funds for now that we see remaining under the operational programmes, but within the next month - two will be possible to have other projects that fail to be implemented and there will be additional funds to be redirected. The decision you quoted in half of the government bases and most likely this lower class of hotels does not necessarily have to be fed, so there are these additional funds where we can provide food, despite the lack of such a service that is provided in these places, and all the other costs are completely consistent with transport during 31 May and so on, so this is the overall picture of European funding. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you are, Mr. Gazhev, for further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u68	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Konstantinova, first of all, the data I have quoted in the question is from the official website of the UNHCR, so it can't be fake unless they also distribute false information. As for the population, Slovakia is a million and a half smaller than Bulgaria and four times more registered refugees. But this is about the comparisons that you announced were false news, I think they are official data from the High Commissioner for Refugees. As for this, you are talking about the REACT-EU tool, I am talking about the CARE tool. That's a little bit of two different things. As for when the reception started and when the documents started, I think it was the first days of March when the decision of the Council of Ministers passed, but the procedure really started to take place 23 March and 25 March and until then, and the answers to the hotline on the phone of the site that you left, which, by the way, was well done, said only this And that's a fact. If you see the very number of registered people when Durankulak's point was opened, how many had already entered Bulgaria and waited to be registered then. So in this respect, the data is reliable. The issue remains about access to health care, access to education services and the labour market. I raise the issue especially about social services, because I do not know whether you are impressed with the number of people who benefit from single help. If you look at the very requirements for providing one-off assistance, one of them is to have a certificate for a current address for a foreigner issued by the Ministry of Interior. This is one of the requirements of the ASA to relax them, which cannot be issued to a person accommodated in a hotel. And that is why the aid is only within about 20% of all of them entered Bulgaria and received temporary protection status simply because they cannot receive such assistance while staying in a hotel. Please note this so that people can still get the opportunity because you have provided it, but in reality it is not available for much of the status received. As for the question, yes, well, you provided $48 million. The question is how will they be walked and, by saying from June 1st that hotels one, two stars and state bases will be used, I hope this means that we will not see unpleasant scenes with people when moving from their hotels to the sea or inside the country. They are not only at sea, there are many people who are inside the country, people who are accommodated in guest houses. Perhaps it would have been good to ask the hotels themselves, which they have now set up, whether they would like to continue the similar program with them and not need unnecessary logistics transfer. Thank you for giving me more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u69	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here you are, Mrs. Konstantinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Gajev, the figures you have quoted compare through the territories of these countries: Poland 3 million. 167 thousand; Romania 857 thousand; Hungary 557 thousand; Slovakia 390 thousand, and you compare them to those 100 thousand that have remained in our country. I'm telling you why it's incorrect. It is not correct because Romania, through which 857 thousand have passed, has remained in its territory 80 000. That is, for one country bigger than Bulgaria, the rest are less than in Bulgaria. And the registered ones are 30 grand! I mean, this is an incorrect comparison again. In Bulgaria, yes, they cross the border, the burden of the border is much less, but Bulgaria is one of the most affected because even compared to one Romania, more people choose to stay here. Your insinuation about how they're leaving here, why they're not feeling well, is exactly the opposite, because there's no such high percentage of people left behind. This is by line of data because, speaking of data, the truth is only one.. it cannot be different. Regarding the social measures you mentioned. Given the fact that there is Minister Gokov, over 10,000 people who have already received this one-time assistance. Even if there is some delay, there is no serious administrative problem. Trust me. It's the same for hiring. All the insinuations you make, all these processes can from the first week or the first few times when they are executed, yes, they should have been rebuilt. But, here, for example, there are 3,500 people who have already started working on employment contracts and that is 5% of the entire working-able population of the people who are here on our territory. Given the volume and quantity of people, I see no reason for any panic on the subject that they cannot receive these funds. On the integration line, it's a process that we think, let's not lie about it from day one, because at first we were focused on lifting up all those processes that we wrote. And no, in any way, there has never been any stress associated with the registration. Absolutely everywhere in Europe we were first and now we continue to hold the top position not only on the start of registration, but on the implementation of this task. As I quoted you, 99% of the people here are registered. Other countries are still struggling to be able to provide a convenient enough way of registering so that they can provide access to all the services of the country of war fugitives. So whatever you're trying to say, the data speaks for itself. This is what we do for integration, and we've been working on it for over a month because we realized that this is the real task. In fact, these are the things that no one has ever worked for them. That is, the institutions we inherit from you have no experience with this task. And in fact, what we can do quickly is to feed existing successful measures that were also available under operational programmes, and things that we have seen that they are enjoying great success, such as some of the employment measures that we have currently fed, you have seen in the decision of the Council of Ministers on Wednesday with additional funding, the operational programme that provides such measures that have a success of over 70%. This is what we have done. We have looked at the things that have been the most successful at least along the line of integration of Bulgarian citizens. Yes, they are attached with additional training in Bulgarian and so on. So we apply things that have been successful and to refugees, because our approach is to have no discrimination at all, neither positive nor negative, and to adopt them. Bulgaria's unemployment has just increased by 1%. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Konstantinova. Attitude? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u72	Dear Mrs. Konstantinova, I will explain it again, obviously slower to understand it. And I'm glad Mr. Gokov is here. In the Agency for Social Assistance, when submitting a document, a person has received temporary protection status, there must be a registration by the Ministry of Interior, otherwise the ASA does not take his documents. And this registration for a current address can only be obtained by a person who has a current address, i.e. either bought an apartment, or was rented, or is accommodated free of charge by a volunteer who has surrendered his residence. If he is at a hotel, the Bulgarian legislation does not allow him to have a current address. Accordingly, by going to the ASA to ask for help or to submit the documents, it is returned for the simple reason that it does not have the documents and cannot submit the documents. That's why I'm paying attention to you because these are cases, so only 10,000 people have received. Because this is happening on the spot. If it is not a targeted document that is required. Please do, I use that you are both here, drop information to the counters and to the people in the ASP, because they require it because so far these are the requirements they wanted for Bulgarian citizens, and they apply the same to foreigners, the only difference is that they want current registration for a foreigner. I'm just paying attention to this because it's really important so people can get their help. We're also talking about access to health care, and it wouldn't be bad to have an information campaign about how they can be used. We've adopted changes to the Health Insurance Act. Then the argument was where the funding would come from. Then our colleagues from "We continue the Change" said: "Yes, it will come from European funds, through the programmes that are coming. I hope they come, but can they still benefit from health insurance? The biggest problem is access to education. Because, especially people who are with young children and children under 12 years of age, while sitting at home, they and parents are sitting at home, there is no place to go. It is nice to be able to also kindergartens, and the different centers where you offer this service to volunteers do a great job, must be supported for them to be able to take over the children so that they can... == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Keeping Changing From Place]] Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u73	I've got three minutes, what time?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u74	Two minutes is about attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u75	Two, okay, thank you. So, Mr. Ananiev was right, I won't abuse time. It is really nice that people can still get involved in the labour market to benefit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u76	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. [[Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova is going to the stands.]] There is no answer to the attitude of the Rules, Mrs. Konstantinova. Continue the discussion with Mr. Gajev on a professional level perhaps, but not here. [[The National Representative Nastimir Ananiev wants the floor.]] Of course, come in, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u77	Can't I take the floor anytime?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u78	Of course, you can take the floor. Here you go, as long as you don't respond to the attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u79	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. As you know, under the Rules of Procedure, a member of the Council of Ministers may take the floor at any time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u80	Of course!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u81	Well, you just didn't give the floor, so please...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u82	I just gave her the floor, you just rushed out, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u83	It didn't look like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u84	Mr. Ananiev, I beg you very much. Here you are, Mrs. Konstantinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u85	Mr. Gajev, all the questions you raise are really important, and that is why I wanted to take the floor so I could answer them. Because in governance, a crisis, and even though we manage to manage it so well that there is absolutely peace, is a crisis, so information is important. I'll address all the things you said. The information campaign is available.. You yourself said that the portal is wonderful. At the moment, for the first three months after the proposals that you, as National Assembly, have accepted, have been paid for the health insurance of absolutely all people fleeing the war. In three months' time, the expectations are that they will get back on their feet and those who are working at a working age will be able to pay their own contributions. Until the end of temporary protection, we are obliged under the directive to provide access to health care, that is, to have paid insurance for all children and all people of retirement age. So this happened, the campaign was made through both the portal and the groups. We are in permanent coordination with the NGO sector from the first week of this crisis, and they are participating in all the thematic working groups of the Headquarters. Every Friday, we personally meet with them and discuss these particular issues, these particular topics, what is on the agenda and what is being undertaken. Drama we don't have in this communication. I also haven't heard from them that much of a problem. Realistically, 18,000 people, not what I said. So that's 20% of everyone else, and it's not isolated at all in those people who aren't at a hotel. So even if the procedure is a little more delayed, it may eventually take a little more time to be quite light, but the procedure works and yet, if they need to be given these funds, it is okay to make all the measures that Bulgarian citizens are doing. On the basis of access to education. The first thing I have to tell you, Mr. Gazhev, is that Ukrainian children are currently completing their education online in Ukraine and will receive diplomas for the year in all classes. So at the moment quite a small part of them have sought to enter the Bulgarian educational system, which awaits them and where there is room for 63,000 children. There are a lot of calls, they call the RIO directly, asking them what their address is and pointing them to the closest school to them, which also provides additional lessons in Bulgarian language to facilitate their integration. What we expect is for the summer to have more clarity on how many of them will decide to stay. What you mentioned and we all know is that they all sincerely want to go home, go home to their family, get together with their spouses, because they are women and children here. So they're going to make a decision at the last minute, but the education system is absolutely prepared to take over. You mentioned kindergartens. In all cities outside Sofia and perhaps depending on how many are left, there are places in kindergartens in Varna, especially given that after the 31st we are still spreading this concentration across the country. So there is no drama outside Sofia and they just have to keep their commitment to compliance with the vaccination passport and levelling the vaccination of their children so that all Bulgarian children can have equal access to kindergarten. The measure that we have in mind for Sofia, where we can take care of in a more general, flexible format, is currently being developed for several weeks by the Ministry of Education in coordination with the Health Ministry. We hope to be able to let her go by the end of June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Konstantinova. Attention, Mr. Ananiev. [[The National Representative Hristo Gazhev wants the floor.]] You have nothing to do with this, Mr. Gajev. Please, listen to me! The questioning procedure implies that once the additional questions are completed and you take the attitude, no speech, and I quote literally the third sentence of para. Art. 3 of art. 99: A reply from the Prime Minister is not allowed, the Deputy Prime Minister in this case. You have made a line and now it is logical that Mr. Gazhev would like to take an attitude, but we are not in the process of free discussion, but in parliamentary control, where we have questions and questions and we should follow the Rules. Again, you should, because everything here is wishful thinking. Mr. Ananiev, I would ask you really not to take any attitude when I lead, especially when you mislead both the audience and those who want to speak. [[The National Representative Nastimir Ananiev wants the floor.]] Of course, I'll give you procedure anytime. Then I hope we can continue with the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u87	Mrs. Kirova, the fact that you are sitting on the highest stands does not give you the right to tell me when you will give me the floor and when you will not give me the floor. So get into the shoes of a man who's holding this meeting. Don't act like someone who's the last resort. When the MP asks for a procedure, you will give him a procedure. You have the right to answer him for two minutes. We've heard your answer, and there's no need to go into any explanation of your emotionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u88	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Since you've addressed me, I'll answer you this way. As chairman of this sitting, I can decide whether or not to give you the floor. I think I'm doing it and I'm giving you my word. Even in cases where I am absolutely convinced, based on the knowledge of your nature and all the abilities you have demonstrated so far, that you will say something absolutely unnecessary, I do so because I think it is right. I'm listening carefully and patiently. I did the same thing in yesterday's session when you failed the audience. I had to show you with a transcript that you lied literally from the stands. You do so often, and that is your right, of course, and your personal conviction. I won't give you my word and I want to continue with the next question. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] Here you are, in the manner of conduct, colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u89	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure towards you is in the manner of conduct. I believe that this National Assembly has so far been extremely democratic and at a high level. My request to you is: let us adhere to the standard that Mr. Minchev set, and I believe you will all agree, let us hold the meetings of this expected high level of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u90	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u91	Madam President, I would like to ask you to take a little more stringent measures because we spent four hours yesterday precisely because of this thing that is happening right now. When people like Mr. Ananiev confuse aggressive behavior with arrogant behavior and allow themselves to behave in a way that is, to put it mildly, and to remove insulting, it makes me uncomfortable to sit here and listen to how he can behave from this tribune, specifically from this tribune against a woman, well, to put it mildly, not insulting, but arrogant. That's unacceptable. If you think this way, with your arrogant attitude, you will win what is happening, well, to put it mildly, you will gain nothing. So I'm asking you very much to take steps to stop this thing. If Mr. Ananiev plays with these games, he will leave and pick fruit that will not win anyone, and once again with him and his coalition will become something that is unpleasant. I therefore ask you once again, for the third time, to put an end to such arrogant statements, because they are, to put it mildly, offensive and arrogant. I don't want to hear his outbursts here. I want to hear the questions and answers from the Council of Ministers. So as not to waste time and not to waste another half day in such verbal outpourings. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you are, Mr. Gurov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u93	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I would like to point out that we did not see any arrogant behavior on the part of Mr. Ananiev here. What we have seen is the protection of his right to take the floor, and your duty is to give him the floor without making pre-emptions about what he will say and what he will not say. This is his right, and you must not violate it, so I ask you to return to the normal holding of a meeting and to take matters into your own hands, to give the procedure as requested by you, so that we do not, as Mr. Ganev mentioned, make new procedures concerning the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly who exceed their rights. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u94	Thank you. Next procedure, please come in, colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u95	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is to you as the chairman of the sitting. You must follow the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, any Member of the National Assembly may at any time require a procedure and you are obliged to give him the floor. It is your right to take the floor if the people's representative comes out of the procedure, but not to give him the floor. So, please, follow the Rules of Procedure and when a Member of the National Assembly requests a procedure in the manner of holding it, give him the floor. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u96	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Mr. Gazhev, come in for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers! Let me join you in a little bit of a series of procedures. You correctly noted what is the procedure for asking parliamentary control, and what are the opportunities for giving the word, how the word is taken. Yes, when a person asks for the word for procedure, it should be given to him immediately. Whether the procedure is correct or incorrect, it is already judged by the President, he can take the floor away and he has two minutes to answer. Here we have another hypothesis and it is in the part where the Minister is a member of the Council of Ministers and takes the floor on a topic that is not on the agenda. Of course, any member of the Council of Ministers can take the floor at any given time, only there are two hypotheses when it is on the agenda or when it is on the agenda, in this case the agenda is parliamentary control. That is, the last participation on a topic outside the agenda, which means that by Rules of Procedure we must continue with two minutes of respect from each parliamentary group, such is the Rules. So once we are done with all the procedures that colleagues have decided to do today, let's move on with the relationship as it is under the rules and then we can now continue with parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u98	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are there any other procedures? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u99	Mrs. Kirova, my procedure is with you. A few details. You checked the transcript yesterday, I also checked the video from the transcript. You obviously forget that when there is a loud applause in the room, as was the fact, there is no way to hear that you are asking if there is a line. When a meeting is held, wait for the applause to be completed and then check if there is anyone to take a cue, as was the case yesterday with Mr. Rakshiev's statement. Then you should take the floor of Mr. Ganev, or at the very least make a remark to him when he threatens once again MPs from this tribune, and he is the Vice-President supposedly of the National Assembly, so join your function. Last but not least, you don't have to discuss my nature because you're standing there in the highest place. There is also a responsibility to this highest place, not only to take and give the floor. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u100	Are there any other procedures? Wait for the loud applause. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u101	Madam President, my procedure is with you. I would like to ask you not to succumb to the obvious provocations of the ruling coalition that are trying to make you lose your temper and look like their vice-president. I hope that you will demonstrate the extremely healthy nerves that you will need, and now all the more so that we see the government trying again to delay the time as much as possible so that their ministers do not answer the questions, which I think is wrong. Again, I ask you for patience and for not succumbing to obvious provocations. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u102	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Ms. Konstantinova's statement is assumed to be on a point that is off the agenda, all parliamentary groups are entitled to two minutes for consideration. We'll start with the change. You have the floor. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] I think the argument is unnecessary. You have the opportunity to make an attitude. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] We must proceed with the meeting with a normal tone and what is happening is not good. Do you have a relationship with GERB-SDS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u103	My speech is not in the manner of conduct, but in relation to it. Last week was the same case, wasn't it? So let's have a little memory. Dear Mrs. Konstantinova, I say again, given that since April 1st they have the possibility of a one-time social assistance for nearly two months, and there are only 18 thousand. souls who have taken advantage, maybe a little red lamp can light up and check if there are really any administrative obstacles? I'm telling you, there is one, and please pay attention. It happens, maybe it wasn't seen, I'm saying it for good, I'm not saying it to pick a fight. The same applies to a better communication campaign for refugees themselves and their communities, not only for the non-governmental sector, but they are doing their job because in the communities themselves and their groups and their communication channels there is not much information that health insurance can benefit from reviews and so on. I say this so that people still know what opportunities they have in Bulgaria. Communication can be made a little more effort towards the communities themselves, not only to the volunteers from the Bulgarian country, but also to the communities themselves who are in the territory of Bulgaria. These are the two things that it's nice to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u104	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. This has exhausted the discussion on asking Mrs. Konstantinova. We move on to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Georgi Gokov. There is a question asked by the National Representative Krum Zarkov about compliance with the right of free association of employees in.. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister of Health, Dear Minister Gokov! In April 2022, a strike was carried out in Libher-Hausgerete Maritsa (EPP) with a key demand to increase the wages of employees in the enterprise and the value of food vouchers, as well as to pay overtime wages. In order to protect their claims, the enterprise shall establish a trade union section of the KT "Support" and an invitation has been sent to the employer pursuant to art. 3 of the Law on the Settlement of Collective Labour Disputes. However, negotiations have not taken place, something more than KT "Support" argue and I expect you, Mr Minister, to say whether this is true that the chairman of the trade union section is forbidden access to his place of employment, and other trade union members have been threatened with disciplinary dismissal and forced to sign release orders by mutual agreement. On this occasion, Dear Minister, please answer me, have the Executive Agency taken action in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u106	Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u107	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Zarkov! "Libher-Hausgerete Maritsa" Ltd. is a company for the production of refrigerators located in the land of the village of Radinovo, Plovdiv district. The enterprise employs 2,100 people, in addition to being employed in its territory, and workers sent by temporary work enterprises is important what I say. On the occasion of the social tensions, the organized protest of workers in the enterprise in April, the Department of Labour Inspectorate Plovdiv is constantly monitoring the situation and when he receives information related to a violation of labour law, he intervenes in due time within his competences. In connection with a signal received on 15 April 2022 by the Syndicate Regional Union of Plovdiv, a verification of compliance with labour legislation has been launched. A reason for the verification is set out in the alert information that the Chairman of the trade union section and other workers are not allowed to enter the territory of the undertaking. The alert shall provide information that the management of the Libher is notified by letter of the formation of the trade union section at the plant and of the desire of the trade union to open negotiations on 15 April 2022 in relation to the demands of the workers. In the verification carried out, the signal was found to be legitimate, and indeed to the representatives of KT.Support, including Mr. Bozhidar Mateev, Chairman of the trade union section in the enterprise, no access is provided to the places where work is carried out, as well as to the territory of the enterprise at all. With this, the employer commits a violation of labour law. In this respect, a mandatory prescription is given for the performance by which the employer is obliged to provide the representatives of the trade unions with access to the places where work is carried out and to the premises used by the workers in the plant. The deadline for the removal of the infringement is 21 April 2022. The results of the verification are notified in a timely manner and the Syndical Regional Union. In relation to the signal received and in order to ensure the rights of employees, the Labour Inspection has also carried out controls on the charging and payment of wages, including overtime. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Labour Inspection has the power to control the charging and payment of agreed wages, but the increase in their size can be done through talks and negotiations between the employer, employees and employees. On 4 May 2022, a re-check was carried out at the undertaking where it was found that the representatives of the KT Support had not been admitted to employment again. By doing so, the employer has failed to comply with the mandatory prescription given by the control bodies on 20 April 2022, which is why the employer has been called for administrative responsibility. It should be noted that the workers in "Libher-Hausgerete Maritsa" EOOD deposited on 15 April 2022 a request to the employer in accordance with art. 3, para. 2 of the Law on the Settlement of Collective Labour Disputes. Despite the requirements of the legislation for the start of immediate negotiations between the parties in the company, there is a refusal by the employer to enter into negotiations for a collective employment contract. In the framework of legal relations, where any Party refuses to negotiate in collective labour disputes, each Party may seek assistance in settling it through mediation or voluntary arbitration by the National Institute of Reconciliation and Arbitration. However, no request for assistance has been made to the National Institute for Reconciliation and Arbitration so far by any of the parties to the dispute concerning its settlement by means of mediation or arbitration. This legal option can only be realised after a request has been made by one or both parties to the dispute. Finally, I would like to stress that the right to association is a fundamental right of employees recognised by Bulgarian and international law. Both in this case and in similar situations, the Labour Inspection will take timely action within the framework of its legal powers to guarantee the labour rights of the employees in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u108	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u109	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Minister! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply and thank you for the actions of your entrusted Chief Labour Inspectorate. However, the specific case leads us to ask ourselves a few questions and make a few comments. The main labour inspection works well and effectively within the current legislation, but let us understand it. There is no you, dear Mr. Gokov, who we have worked with for so long to convince about the importance of social dialogue both at the level of an enterprise and at the level of the industry and at the national level. However, social dialogue cannot happen qualitatively if workers do not have the right to associate and use trade union support for this. Here in this case you have issued a timetable, it is not respected, now you will impose a fine, but large companies are often more willing to pay the fine than to comply with the legislation. These companies are important, Liebher and others, they give a lot of jobs, but this must be done in the implementation of our labour legislation. Two things I want to say. We also see in this case that temporary employment, which sometimes lasts a year, a year and a half, two, is not really temporary employment, but is a way to take people to work without signing employment contracts to give them protection. Take a look at this. And since I'm running out of time, one last line. It is extremely important from now on when we are chasing and looking for foreign investors that we need to know that this should not be at the cost of the rights of Bulgarian citizens or the way... What we are doing in recent years is reducing taxes, making black holes in legislation, looking for a competitive advantage in this way does not work. It does not work to attract these investments, nor ultimately to what we have brought them for, namely to receive additional know-how and to raise the standard of living of Bulgarian citizens. In this order of thought, and this will be my next question, Dear Minister, to you we need to see exactly how the law of association is implemented, as well as the common labour law in industrial areas and elsewhere, made to attract large enterprises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u110	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Gyokov, you have the opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u111	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I will agree with everything you say and as findings, and as conclusions from my response, at all, as some sort of not-so-in-in-depth analysis of labour law. I think our labour legislation in this direction is good. The question is what is culture in trade unions and employers' organizations to take this legislation seriously and to apply it very seriously in practice. Of course, these are two sides in a negotiation that have their interests, and sometimes protect them in such a way that is incompatible with labour law, or result in a violation of labour or trade union rights. I'll use the line to give you some more information. In the labour inspectorate's checks, it was found that in this period 14 April 1 May the employment services of 32 workers were terminated. Of these, nine persons were terminated by mutual agreement after their written application, five persons.. within the test period and 18 persons were terminated on the occasion of written notices to the employer. The 27 written applications and applications submitted contain signatures under the names of the applicants, with only eight submitted after 13 April. Workers shall also have the legal opportunity to challenge the grounds and legality of termination of their employment contracts in court, using all evidence, including testimony. It should be borne in mind that employment proceedings are free of charge for employees. The labour inspectorates do not have the authority to examine the allegations of coercion for the signing of applications for termination of an employment contract. Competent in this case are the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office who are also responsible for matters of coercion or harassment when signing the documents. In the company's inquiries, in the case of Liebher Hausgerete Maritsa., it is found that Mr. Bozidar Mateev is the chairman of the trade union section of the company, not a worker or employee of the company, but is sent to temporary work in it by an enterprise that provides temporary work........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... With effect from 9 May 2022, Mr. Bozhidar Mateev's employment relationship with the Council of Ministers of Bulgaria has been terminated on the basis of a request for termination of the mutual agreement on 5 May 2022. This is more data rather aimed at those people who need to seek their rights, what is the way to do it. Otherwise, the issues you are raising may cause discussion, including trade unions and employers' organizations, including national representation and seeing what changes we could make in legislation in the direction of avoiding such or when such problems occur, to resolve them in the easiest way. The last thing I say, perhaps the trade union in this firm, in this enterprise, should really address this national arbitration for reconciliation, in order to use its resources to resolve the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u112	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. With this, the questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy are exhausted. We're moving on to... [[(Replication by National Representative Venice Netzova-Angova:]] A declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group will follow, then we will continue with you, Mrs. Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u113	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Bulgarian citizens! One day after the so-called constructive opposition, the attempt without real arguments and with ugly suggestions to bring down the Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Miroslav Ivanov and failed, we want to pay attention to a dangerous trend. It is normal for an opposition to criticize, but it is not normal to attack with these methods at this time when we are obviously on the first line of disinformation war that Putin's propaganda machine is leading. It is interesting who is behind these attacks, whose interests protect this so-called constructive opposition? [[Noise and lines from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u114	Silence in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u115	It's doubtful and disturbing that we see similarities with military disinformation. [[GERB-SDS lines]] , mainly with the attempt to bring doubts into society, the attempt to create fear, the attempt to provoke deep division among Bulgarians, which is characterized by your repeated repetition of non-truths, half-truths, and I would say lies and use insults and personal attacks that increase extreme emotions and thereby enhance polarization among people. Dear opposition, is that all you can do?! [[Applause from.. We continue the Change.............................................. Laughter and shouts: "Bravo!" by GERB SDS.]] Repetition of untruths and activation of expected and unexpected persons from the Bulgarian political space after sharpening relations with Russia on Putin was combined with activation of certain companies and business circles that started talking about a gas crisis, that there would be no gas, that there would be mediators, that Bulgaria should pay in rubles, that we could not without Russian gas. Even this week pro-Bulgarian parties are calling on us from the parliamentary tribune to pay in rubles. And the facts are that the Bulgarian business did not feel the stopping of the gas or the Bulgarian consumers. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] The government has quickly negotiated and delivered for the coming months, and in the future the prospect is that we will have gas at significantly better prices than those you negotiated. At the same time, despite the war and inflation and those circumstances that have not happened in decades, the Bulgarian economy reported significant growth in the first quarter [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] But the shadowy and less shady interests were affected, so the attacks, once again, to repeat, typical of the disinformation war continued. The attack on the Bulgarian Post Office, which was actually against our mothers and fathers and their mothers and fathers, who wanted to cause fear, did not work. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] To top it off, we have also seen that in parliament, the constructive opposition, the so-called constructive opposition, is extremely active, or I would suggest........................................................................... is activated............... The National Assembly stands for insults to the vice president of a strategic partner of Bulgaria. It's an understatement. That's ugly. We condemn by the parliamentary group of "We continue the Change" the most rude and racist words to the Vice President of the United States, made by a member of parliament in the Bulgarian Parliament. Such comments are completely unworthy and unacceptable for a member of the National Assembly and are an attempt to distract from the serious issues that actually matter to the Bulgarian people. Kamala Harris is a prominent politician, the first female vice president. We believe that your comment is racist, sexist and categorically unethical. More than once we have heard from the same part of the room the suggestion that Bulgaria was managed by the US Embassy another method which aims to divide the society. At the same time, the former prime minister insists that we negotiate with "Gszprom" and the current opposition officially distributes distorted and manipulative data. Interesting, I'd say, assuming, synchronization. That's not all. Apparently the representatives of GERB party dream so much about elections that in all political actions began to open election campaigns. No, there's no election campaign! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Ladies and gentlemen of GERB, your special political operation will not succeed! As for the bars of Tsveta Karayancheva, former Speaker of Parliament, this is magnificent political hypocrisy. If there was a reward for that, maybe you'd get it. Tsveta Karayancheva, who installed such bars on the National Assembly building during the civil protests, did so with her signature, unlike the current President of the National Assembly has not signed permission to place these bars [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] But these bars have no place in the National Assembly building. The solutions of Tsveta Karayancheva will be removed. So we want to ask again: who is behind the attacks, who is interested in destabilization and chaos? [[(Comments from GERB-SDS: "Who?" Who? Who?]] Who, colleagues, creates chaos to act like a savior? Whose interests are you protecting? Is that all you can do, esteemed opposition?! Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u116	Here you go, Mr. Bikov. [[Loud noise and lines.]] It's procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u117	Madam President, honourable Members! I address the President in the manner of conduct, because he does not respond to a number of nonsense that were said by this tribune, including the fact that... [[(Strong noise and lines from.) We continue the Change.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u118	Mr. Bikov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u119	...including that we are responsible for all the failures of the current government. [[(Loud noise. We continue the Change: Take away his word!]] We are guilty of the Bulgarian Post Office, we are guilty of Putin, we are guilty of the fact that your Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u120	Mr. Bikov... [[(Strong noise and lines from.) We continue the Change.)]] Mr. Bikov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u121	You had to fix them... [[(Strong noise and lines from.) We continue the Change.)]] The fact that your Prime Minister can't tell us until today where he's buying gas and what he's doing... [[(Strong noise and lines from.) We continue the Change. Crashing banks.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u122	Mr. Bikov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u123	We know, colleagues, that after the last polls that showed that on the fifth month of your management you are at levels...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u124	Mr. Bikov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u125	...from 2020 to the then government...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u126	Mr. Bikov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u127	We know you're scared. You're almost there. We're glad to see you. Goodbye and have a nice and happy weekend! [[(Loud noise. Claps by GERB-SDS. Replies from "Step on Change": "Procedure, procedure!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u128	Mr. Bikov, your procedure should have been with me in this case. I'm making a note of that. [[Noise.]] I'm listening, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, we see the hypocrisy of the so-called opposition. Yesterday we had a discussion three hours to talk about the fact that no political declaration is being made. Mr. Bikov, you were the people who, in a series of speeches here from this tribune, were saying how this is a violation of the Rules, how the President should take the attitude and immediately stop this procedure, which is obviously not to the President, but to the statement. Just one day later, once again, hypocrisy. [[Applause from.. We continue the Change.............................................. Revelations: "Bravo! "]] And, Mrs. Kirova, what you are doing today, and the way you are leading this meeting, is more than just what you wanted Mr. Ivanov to be released for. In our group, we will consider your behavior and determine how to proceed further. Thank you. [[(Applause from.. We continue the Change.............................................. ♪ Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u130	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Here you go, Mr. Anastasov. What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u131	In the manner of conduct, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u132	Go ahead, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u133	Dear Mrs. Kirova, I'd like to address you as the host. Yes, you have really allowed a lot of nonsense to be spoken here by a representative of the ruling party. We are continuing the change, but there is one fact that I specifically want to point out to you that you have allowed a representative of the government here to read a declaration against the opposition, to read a declaration in which it names the opposition as an opposition, that is to suggest that it is unnecessary, that it prevents that in some way it interferes with that joke of the Soviet missile, where the space is interfering with its ruling opposition. [[(Noise. (Laughter)]] But in this case, colleagues, quite seriously. It's about... [[(Strong noise and lines from.) We continue the Change.)]] Please put order in the room among the rulers, feel restless.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u134	Order, please! [[(Strong noise and lines from.) We continue the Change.)]] Mr. Anastasov, your procedure is with me, isn't it? [[(Strong noise and lines from.) We continue the Change.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u135	Yeah, you can yell at me. You can overwhelm me, but screaming is not an argument, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u136	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u137	Madam President, the desire to remove the opposition, which the ruling parties demonstrate, is the second step towards authoritarianism. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u138	Thank you. I'll take a note from the procedures. I'm listening. [[Replication by National Representative Venice Netzova-Angova.]] Here you go, Mrs. Angova. Your procedure is the way you conduct it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u139	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is to avoid suggestion that is not true. The words that were said earlier are: the so-called constructive influence. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u140	Thank you. We've gone back into dialogue. I suggest we move on to Mrs. Asena Serbenova, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u141	Why? Why? I have a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u142	Here you go, Mr. Fisherman. Your procedure is...?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u143	Finally learn the names. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u144	I'm sorry, Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. My question is to you: why did you allow a statement to be made after the declaration of? We want an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u146	Since you want to and your procedure is in the way you are, I'll give you an explanation. Mr. Bikov requested a procedure in the manner of conducting the procedure I gave him. I tried to interrupt him several times and told him that I was making a remark because part of the procedure was actually with the nature of speech. I can't predict what any of the MPs will say, but I tried to interrupt it several times. I ask you very much to restore order and the normal course of the meeting and continue with parliamentary control. Mrs. Serbenova, the first question for you... [[(Replies from]] Here you go again procedure, yes. And Professor Mihailov for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u147	Madam President, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. Please explain to me exactly how you tried to interrupt Mr. Bikov, because three weeks ago you very successfully interrupted me by shutting down my microphone immediately without warning me. [[(Strong noise and lines from.) We continue the Change. Applause. Revelations: ……]] This is proof of the hypocrisy Mr. Gurov spoke of just now. Please explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u148	Mr. Tabutov, I just explained how I tried to sanction Mr. Bikov, and I think we should get out of this debate. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov: "Personal explanation. "]] One second, Mr. Bikov, I have the right to explain and I insist on doing so. In the spirit of yesterday's sitting and what we talked about the spirit of parliamentaryism, I believe that it will only be taken away in extreme extreme cases. That's the reason I didn't take Mr. Bikov's word away. I asked him a few times, and I signaled him to finish his procedure by directing him to be addressed to me. That's the explanation I'm giving. I think you're abusing it right now, and we shouldn't let it happen again. If you please, colleagues, let's call off the procedures. I figured out how everyone feels about the way they behave. I suggest we restore normal parliamentary control. Here you are, Mr. Bikov, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u149	I'm going to use this procedure for something constructive. Madam President, I admit that I have abused this procedure. [[Applause.]] On this occasion, you can punish me with a punishment that I think is worthy of punishment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u150	I did it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u151	And the coworkers... [[Loud noise and lines.]] Oh, yeah? Then what's your problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u152	I did it a little while ago, after your statement. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u153	I'm grounded, pull my ears out of the komsomol and get this show over with. What's there to do, what more punishment do you want for me? If you want, shoot me in the square now. [[(Strong noise and lines from.) We continue the Change.)]] Personal explanation, ten times you mentioned me. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u154	Mr. Mihailov asked before that, Mr. Karadayi. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u155	Madam President, yesterday they said that the person who is holding the meeting is not presiding, but is a real chairman at the moment. I dare to share with you, with all due respect and, as the men say, admiration for you as a woman, that you missed this meeting at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u156	I realize that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u157	Whatever personal explanations Mr. Bikov gives here after yesterday's plea in favour of parliamentaryism, colleagues from GERB struggled with every effort to turn this parliamentary control into some kind of circus. Just a circus! And I beg you, I beg you, here and they say things about what is said about the opposition, what was it, anyway, so-called, or constructive, or descruciating, excuse me, I have a five-year memory, and it's quite vivid, here by various rups of the then ruling political party, who went out on the stand and poured out such qualifications for the opposition, which I am uncomfortable to share from the parliamentary tribune. At least this is what some of the political parties that are currently represented in parliament are not doing. But let's really do what you wish for several times, but you can't do if you can't do it, ask the Secretariat of the National Assembly to call another chair right now to replace you and let's move on. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u158	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Karadaye, you have the opportunity for a procedure. Are there any other procedures you'd like?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my opinion, what is happening right now is not deserved by Bulgarian citizens. They are currently watching and waiting for parliamentary control. On the specific subject, I will not enter into the content, but one side and the other, by blaming yourself, you do not contribute to compliance with the rules, because both sides are equally violated at the moment, and the Bulgarian citizens do not deserve this thing. I think Madame President, as formal as it may sound, after Mr. Bikov's procedure made him a remark, that is, punishment, according to the regulations. However, Madam President, the following, I think that you did not properly impose punishment and that is why I appeal, colleagues, to stop this, otherwise everyone equally breaks the rules and equally deserved the least, which is the same punishment. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u160	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Have we run out of procedures? Thank you. We move on to the Minister of Health, who will answer seven questions in total. The first question is from the MP Alexander Simidchiev on funding national programmes to limit the use of tobacco and related products, alcohol abuse and non-drug use.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! In accordance with art. 53, para. 3 of the Health Act 1% of the funds received in the state budget from excise duties on tobacco products and spirits should be used to finance national programmes to limit the use of tobacco and related products, alcohol abuse and non-drug use. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following question: what percentage of the excise duties collected annually from tobacco products and alcoholic beverages is actually used as provided for in art. 53 of the Health Act for each of the last five years?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u162	Mrs. Serbenova, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u163	Dear Madam President, dear Dr. Simidchiev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The funds made available under the budget of the Ministry of Health according to the article and paragraph of the Health Act quoted by you are not mentioned in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and the decrees for the implementation of the state budget on a stand-alone basis. The funds shall be included in the general budget of the Ministry and shall be spent in accordance with the general order within the limits of payments established for the relevant period. It should be borne in mind that, in accordance with the basic fiscal rules and principles laid down in the Public Finance Act, all revenue They shall serve to cover the expenditure of the public authorities and the budgetary organisations concerned, including all policies and programmes financed through the budget of the Ministry of Health established by the State Budget Act for the relevant year. It is within the authority of the Minister of Health, as the primary authorising officer with a budget, to determine the amount of funds to carry out the activities of limiting the risk factors related to behaviour, including.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Ministry shall annually, depending on the priorities and the established total budget expenditure, draw up an allocation of funds under the national programmes cited to limit risk factors as follows: - provides funds for the implementation of the budget programme, reducing the demand for narcotic drugs, which also takes into account the expenditure for the National Centre for Public Health and Analyses for the activities under the National Programme for the Implementation of the Action Plan of the National Anti-narcotics Strategy; - finance activities under the National Programme for the Prevention of Chronic Infectious Diseases, which include activities that are related to the limitation of smoking and alcoholism. For 2017 under the budget of the Ministry of Health funds have been spent under the following national programmes: National Programme for the Implementation of the Action Plan of the National Strategy for the Fight against Drugs - BGN 160 000 For prevention of chronic non-infected diseases - BGN 200 000 This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. BGN 152,000. for the first program, respectively, for prevention of chronic non-infected diseases - 190 000 BGN For 2019, according to the first program for the National Strategy for the Combating Drugs, BGN 151 950, National Program for Chronic Infectious Diseases - BGN 190 000. So you see that the amounts are comparable over the years. For 2020 funds were spent on the budget of the Ministry of Education under the National Programme for Implementation of the National Strategy for the Combating Drugs.. 160 000 BGN and for prevention of chronic non-viral diseases.. 190 000 BGN. Accordingly, for 2021 the first programme again has 160 000 BGN. without any change and the second program for prevention of chronic non-infected diseases - 190 000 BGN. Again, there is no change compared to 2020. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Health cannot provide data on the annual excise duties collected from tobacco products and alcoholic beverages and therefore assess and calculate whether this share, which has been translated for the programmes concerned, has not been approved in accordance with the budget of the Ministry of Health, corresponds to one percentage of these excise duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. Will you make a line, Mr. Simidchiev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u165	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Just one clarification. You talked about programs for non-contagious diseases, and the law specifically states national programmes to limit the use of tobacco products and related products, as well as alcohol abuse, that is to say fighting the consequences is not fighting the cause, that is what I mean. And in that regard, I will continue. I will first ask the Minister of Finance about the amount of excise funds and then we can somehow coordinate this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u166	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. Will you take the back? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Dear Dr. Simidchiev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, this programme of non-infected diseases is cited in the context of the fact that funds are also being spent within this programme to limit risk factors and also because the funds are not targeted. And as you rightly pointed out, this provision, which you quoted, art. 53, para. 3 of the Health Act for one hundred of the funds received in the state budget from excise duties on tobacco products and spirits to be used to finance national programmes, it is not in practice synchronised with the basic fiscal rules and principles laid down in the Public Finance Act. And in fact, it is in the hands of everyone in this Chamber to ensure such compliance, to discuss it, because in practice the Ministry of Finance over the years, and colleagues from the Ministry of Health have introduced me to this chronology, has expressed disagreement with this text, as this is an exception outside the context of public norms. So I guess it's a matter of discussions that are in your hands about how to sanitize what you're asking the question about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u168	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Alexander Simidchiev on organizing activities for general practitioners on the vaccination calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Simidchiev, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is related to a signal to me by general practitioners working in the capital, who under Ordinance 15 carry out mandatory immunizations on the immunization calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria. I have been informed that every general practitioner, according to the needs for the immunized health care providers, goes personally to the regional health inspection to receive the doses of this may be once or several times a month. For example, on April 5, 2022, a colleague went to the department for vaccines. For example, on April 5, 2022, a colleague went to the Bioproducts Department for vaccines, which took almost 3 hours. The employee gave up numbers smaller than requested and advised him to go again on 12 April 2022. She has separately advised to move the time of immunization of the children to be treated, and she has verbally explained that children from different groups are being vaccinated as a priority, which creates logistical difficulties. Such irregular supply of capitalized general practitioners have been putting up with more than 12 months. The above reality, except that it takes a long time, which can be used for clinical preventive and medical activities in the general practitioners' offices, also creates the possibility of exiting the cold chain regime in the transport of vaccines from the Sofia Regional Health Inspection to the general practitioner's office and creates the risk of irregular and incorrect implementation of the vaccination programme. During the vaccine campaign, I personally informed myself of a certified possibility for wholesalers to deliver vaccines to the individual offices of general practitioners directly, complying with all the requirements of the cold vaccine chain. In this regard, I ask you to answer why the organisation of the delivery of vaccines to the general practitioners' offices is not organised in a way that does not turn highly qualified medical professionals into amateur delivery agents and create conditions for breaking the cold chain? If it is not possible to negotiate the distribution of vaccines by wholesalers, which would be the optimal option in my view, is it not at least possible, on request, that the mandatory immunizations be similar to those against a crown virus at exposed vaccination points, so that all general practitioners do not need to accumulate in the Sofia Regional Health Inspection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u170	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. Please, Mrs. Serbenova, answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Dr. Simidchiev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In accordance with art. 6 of Ordinance No 15 on immunizations in the Republic of Bulgaria Bioproducts for carrying out immunizations and reimmunizations are purchased by the Ministry of Health on the basis of contracts with up to 3 years for each type of bioproduct. The purchased organic products shall be granted to regional health inspections under a pre-established plan for the quantities required. In accordance with art. 16 of the same regulation general practitioners receive from the regional health inspections organic products for carrying out mandatory immunizations and reimmunizations and medical devices for their application depending on the number of subjects. Thus, it is clear from the above that the regulations in the regulation in question describe the order for the provision of bioproducts to general practitioners. With regard to the delivery of vaccines by licensed refrigerated transport companies to the general practitioners' offices. For this need, whether it exists at all and how it can be carried out, including where funding should come from, I believe that, if you consider, it is necessary to conduct a thorough analysis, including financial analysis. How will logistics be organised, given that the doctors who immunize the population are located in different towns and villages, and that each general practitioner serves a different number of patients to be immunized, which will also determine the different load of supplies for different vaccines. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that specific time periods for the delivery of vaccines are laid down in the contracts concluded by the Ministry of Health, which should also take into account the transport of vaccines to the doctors' offices. Vaccines are given daily, therefore a single-minute receipt by general practitioners of the quantities of vaccines requested for a given year is impossible. On the one hand, this is related to the delivery periods of vaccines in the country, and on the other hand, the practice has shown that the main reasons for the scrapping of vaccines is the failure of refrigeration facilities or non-vaccinated vaccines due to non-vaccinated individuals. These are risks which, in general, in their genesis and nature are unforeseen and which can be reduced or overcome completely by periodic vaccination, i.e. at smaller stages, at smaller times of receipt As regards the proposal for vaccines for the execution of the Immunization calendar to be delivered to exposed vaccination sites, where general practitioners should receive them instead of the health inspection concerned, we note that mandatory vaccinations and re-immunizations are part of the program "Child Health" of the National Health Insurance Fund, to which performers are the general practitioner of the child or a specialist of children's diseases, and in this sense there are no revealed vaccination points which can be used as intermediate units for the storage of vaccines. At regional level, an organisation for proper storage, planning and delivery of vaccines is established by the relevant regional health inspection. The specific organisation depends on the number of general practitioners in the country, the population to be immunized, the personnel resource and, of course, the refrigeration capacity of the inspection. Vaccines are given daily and periodically and doctors in the given area are familiar for the corresponding schedule. Currently, all the necessary quantities are available in the country to implement the National Immunolysis Calendar, and in addition, the World Health Organization has also expressed an additional desire to donate a certain financial resource, not small, to strengthen those conditions that you are talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u172	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u173	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, for your answer. One comment. The regulatory justification for what we have at the moment is a legislative regulation, that is, a regulation that is easy to correct and adapt to the realities of the ministry itself. And I can make a commitment to talking to colleagues who are dealing with the optimization of logistics processes to see who will be the most effective and most resourceful, that is, the most resourceful method that can happen. If there is such a method that is better, please commit that it will be introduced into the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u174	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. Here you go, Mrs. Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u175	Dear Madam Chairman, Dr. Simidchiev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Of course, it is a regulation that I have quoted. The question is not whether it can be easily or difficult to change, but whether it is necessary. So I quoted that it is necessary to do an analysis. And in addition to the allegations in the signal that has been sent to you, as we, of course, have also addressed the Director of the Sofia Regional Health Inspectorate in order to take the matter into account. The first claim that every general practitioner should go personally to the Sofia RZI in order to receive the requested doses. Such a condition has never been laid down for the personal receipt of the doses of vaccines. A person, nurse or other authorised specialist may be authorised to do so each working day from 8.30 to 17.00. No vaccines shall be given to non-compliant persons and storage conditions shall be complied with. According to the second statement, the colleague did not correctly submit his application at the date you mentioned and, by the way, until the time the reply was made and its update also failed to submit it and requested a serious quantity at once. This means that if given to him this serious quantity he has requested is disrupted the rhythm of supply to all other general practitioners who have correctly submitted their requests. Accordingly, it is explained to him that the desired amounts will be given to him next week On the third claim that the children of Ukrainian refugees are vaccinated with priority, I would also say that it is not true because until now only 23 Ukrainian children have been vaccinated in Sofia and this number in no way violates the vaccination plan of Bulgarian children. The fourth claim for wholesalers to deliver validated vaccines to the general practitioners' offices is actually subject to a serious analysis of whether there is a need for such a change, as well as what kind of service it will be, who will pay it. In addition, I would like to say that I can provide you with the answer from Dr. Penchev to get to know him in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. The next question is from the National Representative Stefan Apostolov about the Center for Assisted Reproduction. Here you are, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u177	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! More and more young people from Bulgaria have reproductive problems. According to statistics, these are between 10 and 15% of the couples in Bulgaria. Thanks to assisted reproduction methods, many families have succeeded in fulfilling their dream of having a child. In this regard, my question to you is: What is the number of procedures financed by the Ministry of Health for one candidate and how many children were born as a result of the procedures carried out and what is the number of patients financed by the CAR Fund in 2021? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u178	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Mrs. Serbenova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Apostolov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! By amending and supplementing Decree No 25 of 9 February 2009 on the establishment of an assisted reproduction centre, in force from 1 January 2018, the Centre shall finance 4 in vitro procedures with transfer of fresh embryos and 4 transfer of thawed embryos to one person, including assisted reproduction in the presence of indications of a proven monogenic genetic disease or proven balanced chromosome mutation in at least one of the partners and also in women with proven cancer on the grounds of art. 26, para. 1, t. 5 and so on. 6 of the Rules for the Organization of Work and Activity of the Center for Assisted Reproduction. And now to the numbers that are a specific and specific occasion for your asking. According to information provided by the Center for Assisted Reproduction on activities in 2021, 5849 applications for organizational and financial support have been received. For comparison, 5250 applications were received in 2020, i.e. we have an increase of 11% in 2021 compared to 2020. 5729 orders for organizational and financial support were issued. For comparison, 5379 orders were issued in 2020, which means we also have an increase in the number of orders issued by 7% compared to 2020. The number of couples passed in 2021 was increased by 3% compared to 2020. They were 4633 last year compared to 4477 in the previous year, confirming the established annual trend of constant growth. This is a total 15% increase compared to 2018. That is, on the one hand, is increasing access, and on the other, probably the problem, as you stressed in your questioning, is deepening. The number of births resulting from these successful procedures in 2021 is 1222, which is an increase of 3% compared to 2020 and the number of children born in 2021 is increased by 5% compared to 2020. Thank you for your attention. Of course, we can also provide them in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u180	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u181	Thank you, Madam Secretary. As I said in the statement of the matter before in the presentation, I said that the Center for Assisted Reproduction gives many families with reproductive problems a chance to have children. There is another problem with assisted reproduction. It's that a lot of people need funding for donor eggs, donation. In this regard, my question to you is: is it envisaged in the Ministry of Health to introduce funding for the process of delivering donor eggs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u182	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Your reply was in the form of a question. Here you are, Mrs. Serbenova, to make a duplicate, if you can answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u183	Mr. Apostolov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! There is a comprehensive discussion of transplants, of donation, including what you have presented as a question in the context of assisted reproduction, but, of course, as again and in the previous subject, it is an analysis, sources of funding, so this could be one of the topics that we can also discuss in the Committee on Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u184	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u185	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u186	Procedure in the manner of conduct...... here you are, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, to some extent my procedure is also a continuation of what you said at the beginning of our meeting, Mr Karimanski, about the prevented Minister of Culture coming here today. According to my very clear information, at the moment the Minister of Culture may have a family holiday, I have no idea, but he is celebrating in his office and opening a second bottle of champagne. [[(Shouting from.. Continue ……]] That's right. Please do not answer your phone, I am sure, but ask Mr. President Minchev to find out for what reasons today the Minister of Culture did not come to parliamentary control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u188	I'll take your procedure into account, Mr. Dilov. We are moving on to the next question by the MPs Stefan Shilev and Ivan Totev regarding the dismissal of the Deputy Director of RZI Plovdiv. Please, Mr. Shilev, ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The Regional Health Inspectorate Plovdiv is one of the inspections that achieved the highest results in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19. However, at the end of the same time when the huge work is almost over and hundreds of lives have been saved, the order for termination of employment with the Deputy Director of Inspection Dr. Argir Argirov was awarded on 14 March 2022, in force from the next day. Dr. Argirov graduated from the Medical University in Plovdiv, acquired a major in Internal Diseases, subsequently a master's degree in health management. He worked as a specialist in internal diseases, but he was also the director of the Hospital of Plovdiv. In 2015 he was appointed Deputy Director of RZI Plovdiv. He returned to the University Hospital as a prosecutor and subsequently as an executive director to help the hospital. There thanks to his professionalism and that of his team are reduced the millions of debts of an inheritance from previous governments. He returned as Deputy Director at RZI in February 2020, at the beginning of the pandemic. Dr. Argir Argirov is a respected professional in the district of Plovdiv and in Bulgaria. Since he was released without any explanation or arguments, my question to you is: what did his release impose without notice, without explanation? Did you personally know about his release and the motives for this? Finally: is this how the Health Ministry acts with respected specialists? I remind you that this specialist came at the beginning of the pandemic and was finally released for gratitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u190	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Here you are, Madam Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u191	Dear President, dear Associate Professor Shilev and Mr. Totev, who are actually addressing this issue, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Regional health inspections shall organise and implement the state health policy within the area concerned and the directors of the inspections shall guide these processes and shall be assisted by Deputy Directors. The law on administration regulates that relations with the sole authorities of power, such as an authority in this case, is also the Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate, as well as with their alternates, are terminated by the authority that appoints them at his discretion, that is, here the Ministry of Health, and if the question to me was with regard to the Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate, then it would be more correct. But the employer of the Deputy Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate is the Director of the Inspection. The Director of Regional Health Inspections shall conclude, amend and terminate employment contracts with persons working in the employment relationship. Therefore, within its legal competence, the Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate, specifically in Plovdiv, has the operational autonomy, meaning it is not necessary to inform me, as part of your question was whether I have been personally asked, it is not necessary to inform me, and this is not done in relation to his assessment of what contracts he wants to conclude, what contracts he wants to amend and accordingly to terminate as an associate with the Deputy Director, and with any official of the Regional Health Inspectorate. As Minister of Health and, in general, as a person who manages and manages processes both in my present and former existence, I believe that each head of an independent legal entity in the budgetary sphere of health, including regional health inspections, should form his own team, have the freedom to choose him, to have the freedom to judge and in the context of what he has as a result of an attestation, as a result of activities. So that I would answer your question if I am personally informed, whether I approve, nor need to approve, nor need to be personally informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. Here's a line, Mr. Shilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u193	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Professor Serbenova, I congratulate you on your answer because this is how a true ruler would respond. You also have experience as a ruler before that, before taking up this position, only things are not exactly what you say they are. You are absolutely right that you can't and you don't really have the right and it is better that you don't, that you don't, that you look at the Director's overall work, that the achievements of the Regional Health Inspectorate and that no one from your Ministry should interfere in the Director's personal work, that you appreciate it by its results. However, this is here that there is one "no" (on 14 March 2022), Mrs. Serbenova, at 10:00 a.m. at the Regional Health Inspectorate Plovdiv, from Sofia comes the Secretary General of the Ministry of Health Mr. Georgi Lipchev, enters the Director's office and orders a respected head to be dismissed, as is the Deputy Director Dr. Argir Argir Argirov. He still has no right to interfere in this thing, as far as I know. Since this is within the authority of the Director himself, it sounds to me like an abuse of office and pressure from the Secretary General of your Ministry to the Director. Dr. Argirov was appointed Dr. Mariana Sturbova to the mother of the same Secretary-General of your ministry. This means not only abuse of office, but also of self-interest, as far as I think, on the part of the Secretary-General I mean. Of course, Dr. Naumova is most likely a highly respected specialist, with great experience, she is an employee of RZI, however, as far as I know, with an acquired pension right, that is to say, a pensioner is appointed to the place of a professional in the prime of his powers. I would just like to remind you that in August last 2021, she was released due to the birthright of the pension director of RZI Dr. Vanya Tancheva Mancheva at 65 years old, a respected long-standing director. This is done by your predecessor Dr. Katsarov, charged in various cases according to the information of the anti-corruption search engine Google. I mean, I think it's a bit of a thing. Is this a normal thing, because I think it was one of your subjects with which the quadruple coalition came to power, and in fact, as I see it, there's a lot of information...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u194	Time, Mr. Shilev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u195	...in the opposite direction. Last one. Thank you. The purpose of my question is to have justice at least partially. My goal is an apology from you to Dr. Argirov, as these actions have probably happened without your knowledge. The aim of my question is that any next person who tries to make these actions gets the corresponding answer not only from the MPs but also from the system as such, i.e. not to allow it in the future. Please do a check on the activities of the Secretary General in your ministry and take the appropriate attitude. Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u196	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Here you are, Minister, for the back of your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u197	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Associate Professor Shilev, regarding the apology. It is given for something that has been done in person, so there is no way I can offer an apology in the context of what you have given to anyone. With regard to the claims that you have made, I accept them as a signal and I will order an inspection of the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Health and, in that sense, I cannot answer the question of whether this nepotism is normal, because we do not know what it is, at least from my point of view, that is, we do not know whether there is a shrobajanism, what is the success of the presentation of the regional health inspection concerned, what part of this success is respected, obviously by you, a colleague who has been vice-director. With regard to the allegations that there is probably some sort of self-interest in your opinion, I would advise you, if you have such evidence, as the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Health can check under the procedure itself, but with regard to allegations of a self-interest purpose, the institution concerned is KKCONPI, so if you have such signals, it is best to refer to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. Question from the National Representative Iliana Zhekova on the requirements for placing machines for medicinal products. You have the floor, Mrs Jekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is prompted by a meeting with citizens, which I held perhaps a little more than a month ago, which are from my constituency. They live in small towns. Subsequently, when I started to develop the issue, I realized that this problem has other citizens who also live in small towns, semi-mountain and away from the respective municipal center. What's this about? Usually in small settlements there are no pharmacies and drugstores discovered, people are struggling to buy medicinal products because they live in remote settlements and cost them additional financial resources to go to the municipal center and buy the medicinal products. In this regard, of course, from an unprofessional point of view, I did a review of the regulations and saw that there was actually a requirement to reveal, to put a vending machine for medicinal products that are not purchased by prescription. The requirement is to find a pharmacy or drugstore. In this regard, it is my question: is there any possibility, after you review the regulations, to do what is necessary so that these vending machines can be placed in places where it is not necessarily required to reveal pharmacies or drugstores so that there are such vending machines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Madam Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u201	Dear Mrs. Kirova, Mrs. Zhekova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The current legislation and, in particular, the provision of art. 218 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine regulates the place where retail medicinal products can be carried out. The law clearly defines the place where this can only happen, allowing an exception when there is no pharmacy, doctors and dentists in the locality, can store and sell medicinal products if they have been authorised to do so in order laid down in a regulation of the Minister of Health. That is, the legislator has provided for such an option, which is obviously because of its character and much better than any vending machine containing products which are granted without prescription. Under current legislation, retailing of medicinal products can only be carried out in pharmacies and drugstores, taking into account the requirements of the Rules on Good Pharmaceutical Practice and in the sale of medicinal products through so-called vending machines, there is no definition of the personal responsibility of the persons concerned who will be involved in the process of granting medicinal products, giving advice, informing the patient of his condition and associated drug therapy. Another motive for the situation of this type of apparatus only in pharmacies and drugstores is the direct responsibility of persons holding the relevant licence for the storage of medicinal products in the pharmacy and maintaining optimal storage conditions described in the Summary of Product Characteristics, including the verification of shelf life and so on. Regarding the question of the lack of the possibility of providing medicinal products in less populated areas. At present, the retail authorisation regime has been set out in the ZLPHM, the law that I have quoted. According to him the right to carry out retail trade has any natural and legal person registered as a trader under Bulgarian law or under the law of a Member State which meets requirements in the law. The legislation thus adopted in the country does not regulate criteria regarding the distribution of the density of pharmacies by territory or their mode of operation at the pharmacy. That is to say, here in your hands, it is really a question of providing pharmaceutical care in the areas that you have quoted, and this should by no means be perceived as the only option to provide these vending machines, because it is not access to medicines and medicines without prescription that are important, but it is important to access to pharmaceutical care and prescription medicines including. There are, as you mention, numerous settlements where the disclosure of pharmacy and drugstore is not economically justified and here could be considered in a broader format and the Committee on Health and then offer specific texts of your attention to the opening of affiliates, for example, to work certain hours during the week. There were such options in the years back. Why not the introduction of a public private partnership to provide pharmaceutical services in the settlements with difficult access. This is also a long-term and sustainable way to deal with the problem, and not just the construction of vending machines with a very limited range of medicines and medicines that can actually mask basic symptoms that can also present problems with long-term chronic use, which is not monitored by a doctor and does not consult a pharmacist. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u202	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Zhekova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Serbenova, I understand that this issue requires a legislative initiative which we can also do as MPs, which you can also do. I am counting on you to pay serious attention to this problem because it really affects a very large part of the Bulgarian citizens and I hope this problem will be resolved because both we MPs and you as a minister are elected to serve the Bulgarian citizens and I think that we should do this in a short time. Perhaps if you consider that some of the regulations that you might consider could work in this particular matter, I ask you to really take the necessary action, because we all know that a legislative initiative will take time and will not allow this issue to be resolved quickly and soon, but it is really important and serious, especially for lonely elderly people who really inhabit remote, mountain, semi-mountain areas, so we need to do everything possible and you as a minister to do so as to resolve this problem as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Will you take the back? Here you are, Mrs. Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u205	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Zhekova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The problem that you put in its small part is actually part of a larger problem, and that is access to pharmaceutical care in settlements that are remote, for which we will rely on your support and that is part of the general concept of rational use of medicines. Because, in fact, statistics in the countries where these processes are being monitored, following the digitalization of the drug release processes, and we will be able to monitor them adequately, indicate that every second patient with a chronic disease taking them incorrectly, i.e. 50% of the prescribed medicines are being taken incorrectly, and what if we just put in a vending machine with medicines that are being given without prescription, uncontrollably? In the Bulgarian population there is a feeling that these medicines, which are given without a prescription, are safe, but that is not the case. Anyone who opens the package leaflet and sees the package leaflet and reads the side effects, of course, which do not happen at all, but at a certain frequency, will realize that these products should not be used out of control for a certain period of time. I will just tell you that in the countries where these processes are being monitored, there are statistics, for example from the United States, that 10% of acute liver failure from people who are hospitalized with this diagnosis is due precisely to irrational use of ots and medicines. That is, putting vending machines without access to pharmaceutical care and appropriate consultation, including by a doctor, including telemedicine methods, why not, but we shouldn't put some vending machines with medicines that we know in the countries where these processes are being monitored, there are statistics, I know they are not safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. The next question is from the MP Ivaylo Hristov on a collective request for an increase in wages. You're welcome to develop your question, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u207	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! On March 31st, the medics from the University Hospital St. Annas and Varna submitted to the management a collective request for an increase in the remuneration. It turned out that the main reward there for the doctor is 820 BGN, I repeat, 820 BGN, and for the nurse - 750 BGN. This discrimination of staff has led to the loss of dozens of doctors and nurses and destroys the hospital. At the moment, despite the competition, the director of the medical establishment has not been replaced and, as is apparent, continues to break down the hospital. What measures will be taken to stop the destruction of the MHAL.S.A. Since, as you can see, my question is dated 31 March, and the question of the hospital in Varna is this way, from the National Assembly, I think that for the third time the process has developed, and last week......... why exactly on Thursday before your question is asked on Friday, the salaries of the staff have been adjusted. Note, the doctors were made BGN 1,100 and the nurses were given BGN 900. I want you to cross-reference them with a cashier at some supermarket.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u208	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Here you are, Madam Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u209	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Dr. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! What you said happened on Thursday, of course, only confirms that it is very important to ask questions from this tribune, and it is still relevant in its majority, even though it has been asked since 31 March, as it does not only concern the amount of payment. The Ministry of Health has established Methodology for the formation of staff costs and salaries of medical and non-medical staff in state and municipal hospital care facilities. The basic principles are laid down in Methodics. Now, in relation to the reaction of some hospital hospital directors to what they have written in the National Framework Treaty, we are doing a thorough examination of the extent to which the claims they have actually made that they cannot afford to raise their basic and gross remuneration first, in fact, respond to the difficulties they are experiencing, because in the last two years not only the COVID-19 situation has given a specific to the hospital medical activity, but other crises have also been added, including energy. So there's an analysis coming up. But the truth is, not only in the hospital that you're quoting, but also from other hospitals, they've started sending us information that they're changing payments. According to the latest data collected at the Ministry of Health, however, they have been since the end of March and I do not know whether it makes sense to quote these wages, because, as I already understand from you, there are processes that have already started there. What we have been communicating about the salaries we have agreed on - that is, the partners have negotiated in the collective service contract - they have respectively found their application in the National Framework Treaty. In fact, first, by 1 August, to bring the monthly gross wages into line and subsequently the main ones. To the heads of wards and clinics on this information, which I was provided by the end of March, the average monthly gross salary in the respective hospital, which you quote is BGN 3309 and to doctors with a specialty of BGN 2663, so that doctors residents are with BGN 2263, health care specialists are with BGN 2236. That is, we are talking about average monthly gross wages, which include not only the basic salaries, because there are greater differences in basic salaries, we will provide you with data once we update the data again, but also the cost of additional permanent wages, the cost of paid leave, hospital and additional unpaid wages. Although a decision has been taken by the General Assembly of shareholders to elect a new board of directors, the company is currently governed by the exempted board of directors. The change in the composition was not recorded in the Commercial Register on the company's account because three municipalities of Varna Municipality, Vetrino Municipality and Avren Municipality, as shareholders have filed claims for annulment of the decision of the General Assembly to elect the new board of directors. The proceedings brought are also grounds for suspension of the registration proceedings in the Commercial Register. That is, the registration of the new board of directors in the register, which practically blocks not only the implementation of this decision, but also an adequate operational day-to-day management of the hospital. The municipalities, which I quoted, have been asked by the Ministry of Health to review the position. Members of the National Assembly, including you, are involved in this process of mediating, as neither the employees in the hospital hospital, nor the hospital hospital itself, nor the Ministry, nor you have the benefit of continuing to be treated in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u210	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Christov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u211	I thank you for that answer. This is how the matter stands. How can I say, there are hundreds of, very capable people with hearts left hostages for three mayors. Do you understand the paradox our health care is in? The Ministry of Health is unable to influence any of the processes in this hospital. I would ask you, first of all, and to be brief: do you have any information about the current financial situation of the medical establishment last year and about the possible salary of the manager of this medical establishment? Again, to be brief, and to protect those colleagues who in no way deserve this fate, which they have been given and who have some faith left in us, because I do not see a normal doctor to remain with such pay in Bulgaria and to work. So if we're having conversations with these mayors here, I'm talking about the three mayors who are... [[Reply.]] Please, please. The issue with them clearly does not happen, since they want to be so much a factor to guide. The laws in Bulgaria determine who is in charge of health care in the country. These are the two laws of the Law on Health and the Law on Medical Institutions. In the case of the manager of the medical establishment, both laws have been violated with the illegitimate governor under these two laws, and the Ministry is in power and in its right to withdraw the license of the medical establishment. In such a case, if they do not wish, let the Ministry start talking and the doctors and patients should be directed to the other Varna hospital, and this medical facility - the three mayors to license it for whatever they want, since they are so stubborn and do not want to comply with the opinion of the institution, which in Bulgaria is responsible for the healing processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u212	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Will you take the back, Mrs. Serbenova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u213	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Dr. Hristov, thank you for asking this question. Of course, it is the ultimate measure to withdraw a licence, punish almost the doctors, for whom you rightly said that these are professionals with the necessary qualities and skills and want to continue working there. We're getting a daily I wouldn't say, but every week feedback about how your hospital's hospital's situation is getting worse and worse. In this sense, I would like, as in the context of what I have said about the directors of hospitals, who will bring to the court a complaint regarding texts in the LDC on the high remuneration that have been accepted, at every complaint in court, we should not approach formally, including here the cases with the mayors of municipalities that we have quoted, but rather in the context of health care to think about what the consequences are, what the result will be of this mourning. Regarding the question of whether we have information about the payments. Of course, we have information not only about the directors of hospital hospitals, but, of course, about the average staff, respectively, about a doctor with no specialty, specialty, chiefs of wards and so on. And that is why, when some of the reactions to some of the accents in the LDC, which I mentioned in my first response, were the surprise of these reactions, because I was actually seeing from the information we have at the Ministry of Health that there are resources for most of the hospital hospitals. Of course, you can also ask me a question about the payment of the directors of specific hospital institutions, not just about the St. Annas, and you will receive this information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. Let's continue with one more question. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, for your question. You'll tell which one it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u215	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! What is the reason for structural changes and the merger of individual clinics at the University Hospital of Alexandrovska, which runs since August 2021? Is the opinion of the individual clinics reported, including the head of clinics in making decisions as an interested party? And here I have an additional question that arose from the latter, given the serious condition of the University Hospital "Alexandrovska". With what status is the requested credit from the University Hospital at the present time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u216	Thank you, Mr. Christov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Dr. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Firstly, perhaps I should answer the last part of the question, if you would allow me, as to what is the status of the requested credit from the University Hospital of Alexandrovska? At present, the status is that this request for credit is still not approved, as what we want to see, as a guide to the Ministry of Health, are not only the losses that have accumulated in the years and consequently their mechanical compensation with a requested credit. But what I would like to do personally, we have communicated it with the management of the quoted hospital hospital, including structural changes, including a very careful analysis of where functions are duplicated, including a very careful analysis of the situation and condition of this hospital and because of its relations with the Medical University, because you know that the lecturers are actually led at 0.25% at the Medical University of Sofia, and in fact the larger part of their pay they receive from the hospital, while maintaining certain levels of doctors who are habilitated and are lecturers who are needed by the university. But here we think from the point of view of the hospital hospital hospital, including we have conversations with the Medical University of Sofia, how the pay for the relevant teaching can be increased. So I would like to see a complex healing plan as required by the Ordinance, and not just the lack of a medical establishment to be compensated by the request for credit. You know that from the perspective of the investor, who is actually the bank and who will invest this money, is the question of the return, but from the point of view of the Ministry of Health is the question of the fate of this largest university hospital in which we have all been trained. On what you have asked and perhaps I will add to the duplicate, as I probably will not have enough time for the operational management of this hospital, as well as others, is carried out by a board of directors. The powers of that Board of Directors shall be the determination of that internal organisational structure of the medical establishment necessary for its effective operation. That is, future coordination of such restructurings will be in the context of the credit that you mentioned, but so far there is no need for such actions to be coordinated with the Ministry of Health, as this is operational management. Information was requested from the company on the occasion of your request. We can also give you the answer from the director. This information shows that the current management of the University Hospital "Alexandrovska" EAD has immediately taken action to carry out an analysis of the current state of the medical establishment. Of course, the difficult financial situation we have seen in recent years, accumulated losses from previous years, the existence of overdue liabilities to various suppliers and the negative financial result of a number of clinics, in some of which, as I mentioned, duplicate or similar activities are being carried out. That is, I expect the management of the hospital to offer an option on how to sanitize these duplicate or similar activities. At the discretion of the company's management, the result of the analysis imposed the development and implementation of a rescue programme. A committee is set up to optimize medical administrative and business activities and improve its financial situation by designing a restructuring plan, which includes: unification of structures with duplicate activities; disclosure of missing activities to generate relevant revenue; restructuring of the number of hospital beds and staff; definition of areas and spaces for individual structures; and reorganization of administrative activities. In this context, what is proposed will be appreciated by the credit claim that you mentioned. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Then I'll fill in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u219	Again, to be brief, honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Minister and honourable Members! The trials that started last August create a sense of impunity and, how can I say, an internal clearance of accounts in the hospital itself. In this situation, is there any mechanism by which we can avoid such things, because, as the people's wisdom says, fish is caught in the muddy water and some people use such shifts of power to clear both professional and any accounts that have occurred in this case without quoting names and clinics. How do you plan to avoid these things? Since we're talking about a financial situation right now, you can see that we're asking a question here about two hospitals. The two hospitals are in such a difficult state that they are practically a Alexandrov hospital. As far as I know from your question and the answers I have, it's completely decapitalized and it's a miracle if you take credit there. I don't know how to get it. In such a state are about 30 hospitals and it is probably appropriate here to raise the question of the state of the big hospitals in Bulgaria. These are the district hospitals and the big hospitals........................................................................................................ Because the situation is really scary right now. The extent to which the increase in wages planned within these borders can now be taken over by these very large hospitals is not very certain. What's more, it's pathetic that there are so few here... Look at the interest in health care, what is it? There must be 30 people in the room. It is necessary, as healthcare is placed in very high dependence on factors. One of the factors is the Commercial Law and hospitals, especially the public hospitals in the Commercial Law, where they do not belong. Even more scary, which came out that the hospitals were aligned to public enterprises and it comes to the fact that in some of the small hospitals at the moment there is a paradox for the hospital manager to be with BGN 2200. Do you think he'll stay with that 2200 leva? salary, given that his employer has 3900 leva. There are some very serious problems and it is appropriate for the Ministry in this situation to submit a proposal of measures for legal resolution of these particular things so that we can decide what to do with these hospitals. It's not just the mechanical way to blend in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u220	Thank you, Mr. Christov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Dr. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Let me just finish with the previous answer, and then I'll take a look at what we're doing right now as an analysis of the legislation. You rightly noted that this process started in the middle of last year and, as a result of its work, from the process that you say began August, the Commission has drawn up a draft restructuring plan. This Restructuring Plan was reviewed at meetings of the Board of Directors held on 14 September 2021 and a decision of the Board of Directors approved the new structure of the medical establishment and established a new establishment plan. The Executive Director shall be tasked by the Board of Directors to establish the new Rules of Procedure and the internal order of the medical establishment, with the Regulations established and deposited, together with the other documents required for the issue of a new authorisation for carrying out medical activities respectively. A few months later, the request for coordination of credit in question is actually submitted and, of course, this coordination is currently being done in the context of everything I have said, including structural changes, including the merger of activities where necessary and appropriate removal of those that are duplicated. With regard to the role of the Ministry of Health, this is not the only hospital hospital in a severe financial situation inherited from years back. This role should be strengthened and it is in your hands. We are currently doing a legal analysis of the Law on Public Enterprises, as well as the Law on Medical Institutions. The Ministry of Health, of course, sets the policy and may propose certain changes, but they depend on you, because at the hospital's level there are very few processes, some of these processes you referred to, and they are purely operational. The Ministry of Health could intervene. I also wish that in municipal hospitals there would be a more active role of municipalities, a more active role of the state, so this is a discussion. I know it sounds very arrogant, but indeed, you need to be more complex and with your help to impose these changes in legislation. They will allow for more adequate recovery and adequate business programmes that are related to reality and not just proforma completed because this is how legislation requires it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. Now, although for the second time, thank you for participating in the parliamentary control and moving on to the questions to the Minister of Agriculture Mr. Ivan Ivanov. The first question is from the MP Petar Petrov on the need for urgent measures to repair the dam of the dam near the town of Montana by its owner the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, welcome! The theme of the need for urgent renovation of the dam is not new. I remember it was still discussed in the election speech of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov before he was elected prime minister. We have also heard in this Chamber a similar question, if memory serves, the end of January. The subject is not new and we have also had a meeting between us with regard to it, but I preferred to leave my question and be able to develop it today, as I believe that, after all, the broad society, not only the population of Montana, should have some more reliable information than the competent state authorities. Hopefully, one confidence that such construction works to strengthen the dam wall will be done after even the Prime Minister said a few months ago that he deliberately kept the dam level low to avoid possible accidents. I believe that the subject became particularly relevant after information came out the other day, if memory serves me, that illegal excavations were being carried out in the area of the dam. Diggers, trucks and gold mining equipment were even confiscated. I believe that there should not remain a feeling in the Bulgarian society that everyone does what they want in the area of the dam and that the state institutions simply transfer the ball to each other. In view of this, my question to you is: what is the state of the wall? Will any measures be taken to strengthen it? In the circle of the joke, of course, I'm glad we got to that point before the dam dried up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u224	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u225	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, on the basis of § 4c, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Water Act by Decision No 495 of the Council of Ministers of 13 July 2018 to the State-owned consolidation company. The renovations and reconstruction of dams with state and municipal property, included in the Annexes to the Decision, are awarded. At a subsequent stage, the Decision of the Council of Ministers No 495 was supplemented by Decision No 698 of the Council of Ministers of 4 October 2018 and the Dam of In 2018, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests then carried out all required procedures, work projects were drawn up and Building Permission No 40 of 24 April 2019. All documents were submitted to the State Consolidated Company (SAD) on the basis of the legislature's decision and concluded Treaty No RD 50-19 of 18 June 2020, which transferred the necessary construction works and other types of works, activities, copyrights on all documents and materials to the Company and any other elements and components related to the presented projects. By Decision No 9 of 28 August 2020 of the Chief Architect of Montana Municipality, on the basis of art. 161, para. 1st last hypothesis from the sentence first of the Law on construction of the territory in Building Permission No 40 of 24 April 2019 as a contracting entity is entered the company. With the same is deleted as the contracting authority owner of the facility, namely the Ministry of Agriculture. The construction decision shall expire until 24 April 2022. On 25 August 2021, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 25 August 2021 to 25 August 2021. The Ministry of Agriculture informs the Ministry of Agriculture that they are ready to launch the necessary repair activities of the dam. In 2021 the Ministry of Agriculture repeatedly referred to the Company, the portfolio ministry, the Ministry of Economy, the SANS and the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office for the non-started by the state consolidation company. It was received on 19 January 2022 by a citizen of Montana, in which once again allegations of inaction by the Ministry of Agriculture have been made, and a letter from the State Consolidated Company was attached from 14 November 2021, with which the Ministry has not been informed. The letter states that the renovation and reconstruction activities of the dam and its construction facilities for the dam will be awarded by the Municipality of Montana in compliance with the relevant legal requirements and regulations in the field of construction, in accordance with the Construction Decision and the projects drawn up, which include the corresponding completion of the injection curtain on the dam wall. As indicated above, the Ministry of Agriculture has carried out and continues to carry out its duties in the management of the property granted to it by the State, namely the Dam of Ogosta. At present, the Ministry of Agriculture has no reason to take action to carry out repairs, insofar as the legislator has foreseen that these activities will be awarded by a company designated by Decision No 495 of 2018 of the Council of Ministers of the State Consolidated Company. By letter dated 28 March this year, a request was made to take action to extend the construction permit, given that the company had taken action to conclude a contract with a contractor and a construction supervision for repair. From the inspection carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture in Montana Municipality it has been found that the deadline has been extended, but up to now no information has been received for the launch of repair and reconstruction works on the facilities by a selected state-owned consolidation company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u226	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u227	Dear Minister, thank you for the comprehensive information and the data provided. As I understand it, the Ministry of Agriculture has done and has taken the necessary steps to award the repairs. The same renovation has not started, and it has addressed the relevant control bodies so far, but as far as I understand, the construction permit expired on 24 April. [[Reply.]] Oh, it's been extended, I apologize. Then my only request to you, Minister, as a man who was born in this city and on behalf of the local public, cooperate with us before the relevant institutions, although I understand that you have done the necessary actions, help us so that they can carry out the actions that are by law. Obviously, at least until now, the control authorities can't convince them to start strengthening activities on the dam, because yesterday someone is mining gold, tomorrow someone could eventually start extracting other fossil or underground fuels, further damage to the dam wall, resulting in a possible flood, which would be potentially detrimental to the city. Therefore, I thank you for the answer you have given, and again I ask for your cooperation in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u228	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u229	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, I think the very fact that the state has detained and confiscated people who are illegally trying to mine gold means that the control bodies are working. I didn't know there was such interest in this area to mine gold. Obviously, there is a place for the state to acquire more revenue when it sets up a similar locality. But that's another question. The point is that an extremely severe regulatory chaos has been created with the already cited decisions of the Council of Ministers, where it takes away the ability of the owner to carry out the necessary repair activities. This was answered by Deputy Prime Minister Ninova to this question. The Law is quoted, of course, and it has the legal basis to claim that after carrying out these renovations by the DKK, the DKK should have the opportunity to look for the funds from the DKK as well. As I said, because of the wrong decisions that the prosecution has already addressed and, unfortunately, does not work and does not investigate these cases, you know how many cases there are of draining funds from dam renovations through the DKK, I hope this thing will happen, trigger these institutions and take responsibility for the individuals because this thing should have been done a long time ago. I believe that now, under the leadership of the Ministry of Economy, the necessary actions will be carried out and the DKK to carry out the repairs that are needed. The relationship between the two ministries will now be cleared, clarified. I guarantee that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u230	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Kostadin Stoykov on increasing the minimum insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers. You have the floor, Mr. Stoykov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u231	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, with the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2022 the minimum insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers increased sharply from 420 BGN. £710. The insurance contribution of farmers increased by more than 100 BGN. monthly. I have received hundreds of complaints from farmers that insurance is beyond their reach and that they are forced to give up, that is, to the gray sector. All of this is happening against the background of a drastic increase in energy carriers, of fertilizers, of plant treatment preparations, of animal feeds. When discussing the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2022, you promised me................................................................................ My question to you, Minister, is: why have these schemes not yet been developed, given that the new insurance values are already in force and are due. Are they even being developed and when will they be developed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u232	Thank you, Mr. Stoykov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u233	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoykov, you have rightly addressed the topic that at the moment everything has risen to feed, energy carriers and so on as a result of an extremely severe crisis, such as the war in Ukraine. This affects the whole world. When we presented the State Budget Bill, you very correctly quoted me as saying that the state has developed the necessary mechanisms. I'll list a few of them. Another point is that we are already in an environment. Of course, we are working on this topic of budget update, to present you with additional measures. The State aid budget for 2022 is aimed at farmers mainly to address the consequences of the complex economic and geopolitical situation created and to cover these costs. The timely and effective state support aims to compensate for part of the increase in production costs, to stabilise them economically so that they can maintain market sustainability and therefore cover those costs that you have quoted. Such is the purpose of the temporary liquidity measure, applied for from 21 April 2022 to 20 May 2022, with the measure having a budget of 143 500 000 BGN. These are extraordinary funds from the state budget. They've never been given one of these before. With the State Social Security Budget Act, yes, you said they were increased. The support measure, apart from the available financial resources that I quoted, also requires the development of the parameters and mechanisms for providing control needed when spending public resources. Financial resources amounting to 5 million lv. additionally provided by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Ministry of Agriculture shall be in communication with the National Insurance Institute in order to specify the potential number of registered farmers and tobacco producers with model 1 declaration lodged, as provided for in Regulation No 13 of 2019 on the content, timing, manner and manner of submission and storage of data by employers, insurers for persons insured by them, as well as by self-insuring persons from the beginning of the year to the month of April inclusive. Following the identification of the circle of beneficiaries provided from 1 April 2022 to 31 December 2022, the Ministry will take the necessary action to implement the aid and provide support to micro-farmers, I am talking about these 5 million. lv. additionally. It should be borne in mind that small farms are priority in forming state policy and determining support in the field of agriculture. Financial support is primarily aimed at stimulating profitable agricultural production and market equality. The budget for national support measures for 2022 amounts to just over 482 million so far. By the end of the year payments are to be made on various financial instruments aimed at maintaining production and having good implementation on the market for primary agricultural production. For the period 2023, the application of existing de minimis and de minimis State aid will continue for 2027, focusing precisely on small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector. For this year, we have provided the maximum budget with the de minimis measure. What I am going to say, including for the period 2023 "2027," is that we presented to the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission our strategic plan, or the new Operational Programme for Agriculture, where the first pillar provides 4.4 billion. EUR, under the second pillar Euros. Of these, 60% are national co-financing, with the goal for the first time now being 60% so far the co-financing has always been 15%. That means that the country has made an extremely huge commitment to our farmers, and by these national means we will complement their needs. I sincerely hope that the situation does not escalate in view of the war with the price of raw materials, fertilizers, preparations and so on, so that the real effect of this strategic plan can be felt, because this is an intervention that has never been made before - 60% national co-financing. We aim to compensate for all the shortages they have had over the years and therefore to make a specific agricultural production in Bulgaria, which is all over Europe, and over the years has not been achieved, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u234	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, if you like? No. We continue with the next issue by the MP Rumen Hristov on taking measures to limit the import, distribution and use of illegal, prohibited or false plant protection products. You have a word to develop your question, Mr. Hristov, within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, Bulgaria is difficult to solve the problem of import, distribution and use of illegal, prohibited or unauthorised and fake plant protection products. The use of plant protection products of unclear origin and chemical composition, or taken from use due to their harmfulness to the human organism, puts the Bulgarian citizens and especially children at serious risk, such as consumers of fruits, vegetables and other products whose production uses such plant protection products. In order to obtain a more complete picture of the diseased and unresolved problem over the years, I ask you to inform me of the quantities established for 2021 of unauthorised plant protection preparations on the territory of the country which have entered into distribution and use in kilograms or litres. In accordance with art. 61, para. 1 of the Plant Protection Act, what quantities again in kilograms or litres, plant protection products from parallel trade, were placed on the market in 2021? How many samples of plant protection products in accordance with art. 61, para. 6 of the Plant Protection Act were adopted in 2021? In view of the above, Mr. Minister, my question to you is: what measures are being taken by you Ministry of Agriculture and Food to limit this illegal practice of import, distribution and use pa harmful to the health of Bulgarian consumers plant protection products.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u236	Thank you, Mr. Christov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u237	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, you know that the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is the competent state authority that carries out official controls in the production, repackaging, storage and use of plant protection products under the Plant Protection Act and regulations. The main purpose of control is marketing, storage, repackaging and so on. The scope of the controls are the regulated sites in which plant protection products are stored, repacked and offered for sale. It is an undeniable fact that in recent years there has been an extremely serious problem concerning the distribution and use of unauthorised and/or falsified plant protection products in the territory of the Member States of the European Union, including Bulgaria. Open borders within the European Union, as well as the fact that our country is an external border of the Community, is a prerequisite for a growing marketing of unauthorised and/or counterfeit pesticides. The imported plant protection products have not undergone risk assessment and authorisation procedures as required by European legislation and may contain unverified, unreported on the packaging, prohibited and hazardous to health active substances for the neutralization of which an appropriate antidote cannot be applied. The seriousness of the problem requires urgent measures to combat false and unresolved plant protection products. In order to counter the illegal distribution of plant protection products in 2021, BABBH participated for the fourth time in the international operation SILVER AXE VI, organised by Europol and aimed at the illegal distribution of unauthorised and counterfeit pesticides. In the framework of the international operation and beyond, BABBH shall exercise enhanced control over the import of plant protection products in conjunction with the Customs Agency at the border crossing points and within the country in cooperation with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and DANS where necessary. Plant protection inspectors from the Regional Food Safety Directorates shall take a control sample of plant protection products. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry then launched an initiative against criminalisation of illegal imports and use of unauthorised and/or counterfeit plant protection products, and by order of the Minister in 2019 a working group was formed to amend the current legal framework and the case has been referred to the Ministry of Justice. As a result, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code was prepared by the two ministries and was submitted to the Forty-fourth National Assembly in 2021. The legislative process is to be started again, including the inter-agency coordination procedure of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Criminal Code, which includes the proposal for the Ministry of Agriculture to supplement art. 350a from the NK for criminalisation of illegal import and distribution activities in the country of unauthorised false plant protection products. In this regard, a letter was sent to the Ministry of Justice on 14 April 2022, with which the Ministry of Agriculture maintains its proposal to supplement art. 350a from the NK. In addition, a draft Regulation on the terms and conditions of use of plant protection products has been drawn up on the basis of art. No. 104, para. 1, t. Art. 3, Art. Article 113 114 of the Plant Protection Act, which was published for public consultation and is currently in procedure for notification to the European Commission. If you want, I will quote you in the back and the quantities that were captured in 2021, which you ask for, or give them to you as you see fit. My time has run out for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u238	I can give you some more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u239	In order to counter the illegal distribution of plant protection products in 2021. I've already said that. I've already said that. I'm taking part in Operation SILVER AXE VI, organized by Europol. In the framework of the international operation and beyond, BABBH is carrying out enhanced control and as a result 483 l and 160 kg of illegal plant protection products were detained by inspectors at the border crossings and at the border crossings; 3492 l and 122 kg of illegal plant protection products by plant protection inspectors in conjunction with the authorities of the National Security Agency and the Ministry of Interior; 10 220,348 kg of illegal plant protection products according to the data of the Customs Agency, seized at border control posts under customs legislation. For market control, if you want...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u240	Maybe in the back, eventually.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u241	...because I have more information. These are the quantities caught in SILVER AXE VI share. I have more information that's pretty extensive.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u242	Of course, it does not interfere, which cannot be given in the oral answer in writing to Mr. Christov. Here you are, Mr. Christov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am pleased with the answer I received, especially because you support the idea of introducing stricter measures to those who abuse the spread of these harmful herbal remedies to Bulgarian citizens and especially children. I understand that this struggle is difficult in terms of the fact that Bulgaria is an external border of the European Union, mainly imports are carried out by Turkey. We know that a very large number of people who travel to these markets often import small cuts into bottles, dadjans and so on, and cannot be caught. But betting in the Law on stricter sanctions would, in my opinion, limit this distribution and use. It is a fact that many of them possess a higher active substance and are more effective, on the one hand, but on the other hand, they are much more harmful to citizens and they are prohibited by directives from the European Union for a reason. So for me, what you're doing is in the right direction. The issue is to go this way and to resolve matters legally. And BABBH's task with border control is important, and I hope that you will continue to carry it out in the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u244	Thank you, Mr. Christov. If you want in the back? No, you'll give them in writing. That was actually the last question for you, Minister. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policies and Minister for Environment and Water Borislav Sandov. The first question is from the MP Emil Georgiev about burning used tires in a workshop in the land of the village of Slanothron, Vidin municipality. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Environment and Water, honourable Members! In 2012, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The construction started in the village of Slanothren, Vidin Municipality of an installation for undisputed processing of waste tyres with a processing capacity of 20 thousand tonnes per year. Obviously, considering that the local population will be against it, the investor has obtained the necessary documents without giving voice to his intentions. In any case, with the start of construction, it can no longer be hidden that an installation is being built at this fertile agricultural end, which will pollute the soil, water and air, which naturally led to numerous protests, as well as meetings at the Ministry of Environment and Water, in which I have been involved. Unfortunately, the results of all these protests and meetings did not follow. Responsible institutions reassured the local population that everything would be okay and that there would be no problems by referring them to a report prepared on the investor's behalf, according to which a report on the implementation of the investment proposal, notice, will have a positive effect on the environment. However, since 2012, there has been a lot of evidence that there is a huge difference between what was recorded in the report and what was actually done by the investor and the doubts that the company is burning unregulated tires remain. After the installation started working mainly at night, extremely unpleasant, suffocating smells began to wear. More than once, the mayor of the village of Slanothron, as well as the local residents, are sending signals to 112, as well as to the Inspection in Montana. According to the answers, the company does not work, but only does experiments and is therefore out of control. Given that the installation was built in 2012, this means that samples and experiments have been done for 10 years. Moreover, the yard of the installation is periodically filled with tires that are supposed to be in storage, and the tyres are disappearing. My question, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is as follows: regardless of the reference to the environmental impact assessment report, why, when it is obvious that the measures envisaged are not respected, those responsible in the Ministry of Environment and Water do not fulfil their obligations to control the investor, and why do not sanctions be imposed for obvious violations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u246	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u247	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, Ministry of Environment and Water controls compliance with environmental legislation on the territory of the country through relevant regional inspections on the environment and water. In this particular case, which you are referring to, this is RIEW "Montana." In accordance with art. 113, para. 1, t. 1 of the Waste Management Act, the Director of the RIEW or an official authorised by him shall exercise control of compliance with the requirement for treatment of waste and the conditions of the permit, respectively, on the registration document for activities relating to the formation, collection, including separate storage, transport and treatment of waste in the territory of the relevant RIEW. For the period from the authorisation of the National Construction Control Directorate, 7 July 2015 for use of the site until March 2019, only samples and tests are carried out in the installation to bring it into line with the technological parameters of work. By letter of the operator RIEW "Montana', it was informed of the completion of the installation's sampling and testing activities and its introduction into normal operation as of April 2019 and, for the above period, the Inspection received timely information on the performance of these samples and tests. From April 2019 until March 2022, in fact, already April, because earlier this response was prepared, based on the RIEW-ordered Montana, the operator has strictly complied with the requirement for prior notification of the installation operation. The operator, as you said, is a Commercial and Technology Company and owns a permit issued by the Director of RIEW Montana, a permit for waste activities of 14 May 2014. Since the permit to use the site in 2015 to date, RIEW.. Montana has no information and has not established that the installation has been operating at night, and that it is wearing an unpleasant and suffocating smell that does not correspond to what you say. In my case, RIEW "Montana," says there has not been a single signal, except for one from the Political Club "Ekovoglatvoda" since the beginning of 2019. The monthly and annual reports submitted by the company in question for continuous monitoring and control of the technical parameters carried out with an automated computer system are also confirmation of the installation's operation period. All emissions measurements carried out by the operator and controls from April 2019 to July 2020 and by the laboratories of the Executive Environment Agency for emissions of harmful substances released into the atmosphere by the installation shall not exceed the emission limit values for all legally defined indicators. In order to establish the possibility of air pollution from the operation of the site in the periods 8 - 15 April 2019 and 11 - 18 November 2019 and from 27 January to 3 February 2020 from a mobile and automatic station of the regional laboratory Pleven, measurements of the parameters and indicators characterising the quality of the air in the region of the village of Slanothron are carried out to the Executive Environment Agency. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] No deviations were observed in all measurements. The company's planned inspection on 10 May 2022 confirmed the findings of compliance. In addition, in the course of the public consultation carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Ordinance on the conditions and procedures for carrying out an environmental impact assessment, the EIA procedure and the public consultation on the report did not have any opinions, opinions and objections. The measures previously put in place only one minute more, as set out in the environmental impact assessment report, are implemented and 24-hour surveillance with 10 cameras is provided on the site. The RIEW Control Action Plan of Montana puts an on-the-spot check on an annual basis. In conclusion, the National Revenue Agency is the competent authority for the payment of local taxes and fees by this company. I also had some doubts about the activity and the RIEW "Montana," from this week is with a new director, so I hope that control will also improve and if there are indeed violations, they will be identified and the necessary measures taken.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u248	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the information I have at my disposal confirms that once again, colleagues from the Montana Regional Inspection have misled you, and I will present the relevant evidence. According to the environmental impact assessment report, a high chimney should be built to take the harmful gases high into the atmosphere. Anyone who gets past the installation can be convinced that there is no such chimney at all. According to the report, page 44, a lesoprotected belt should be created around the terrain, which will contribute to its faster inclusion in the surrounding landscape. This belt wasn't built. The report, drawn up in 2009, states that technology is page 50, and in 2014, the investor requested permission to burn waste. And last but not least, on page 9 of the report it is written that the processing tyres will be stored in a warehouse with an area of 650 sq. There is no such warehouse, the tires are scattered all over the yard and several times during the ignition a fire hazard has been created in the area. This photo [[shows it]] I'll hand it over to you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, it was made on April 25th this year. Notice, there's talk of warehouse 650 sq. There are thousands of tires, thousands of tires that are burned mainly at night. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, it is clear to me that you are not responsible for what is happening in the last 10 years, but with the question I have asked, I wanted to pay attention to the violations that have been committed for 10 years. This photo [[shows it]] Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is proof of a crematorium that for years pollutes the environment, air, soil, pollutes around 2,000. dka vine plantings, hundreds of acres of wheat, sunflower, corn, rape and all kinds of other agricultural products. The only way out of the situation in my opinion, as the people in the area are insisting, is to immediately stop the activity of this workshop. But thank you. I suggest you appoint a committee from the Ministry of Environment and Water [[the President signals that time has run out]] , to include MPs from the Committee on Environment and Water, to go to the site without signaling in advance because your colleagues from the Inspectorate in Montana for years covered up the operation of this workshop. By finishing, I draw attention to a question which we will soon put to you, I hope, with colleagues from other parliamentary groups, about what is happening in Belashtitsa. There are two construction companies continuing to commit nonsense. And I finally want to thank you. [[the President signals that time has run out]] because you are the only minister who paid very serious attention to the burning of waste. My compliments on what you have done for TPP Maritsa 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u250	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u251	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, I, too, read the answer that was prepared by RIEW That tells me there's probably some procedural inaccuracies. What you have paid attention to and what I will be subject to a very serious inspection is the implementation of the environmental impact assessment report and whether it is actually implemented with regard to the chimney, with regard to the storage room and so on. If it is not implemented, we have the opportunity to close this undertaking with a forced administrative measure until the violations are resolved. That's what I'm going to do if that's the result of the inspection. I welcome your idea of it being wider and surprising, so I will deal personally with this issue, and I will also engage the newly appointed interim Director of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection in Montana with this issue, so that we can ensure that cleanliness, environmental protection in the region and human health are safeguarded. Thank you again for the signal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u252	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. The next question is from the MP Dimitar Nikolov on the order and rules for the use of service cars by employees in regional inspections. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u253	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! At the beginning, I make the clarification that I do not at all have the claim of expertise regarding ecology, environment and climate policies, although this is my second question to you this year, Mr. Minister. When the structure of this Council of Ministers was presented, I was respected by the fact that we have a deputy prime minister in terms of climate change and policies, an undeniable global problem and perhaps the greatest challenge facing humanity. As a person who comes from the country and local self-government, I have always followed the principle of thinking globally, act regionally. Does Patriarch Evtimiy Street 120 in Tryavna mean anything to you? I don't think so. And to me, too, until I receive a signal that the regional environmental and water inspection car in Veliko Tarnovo is staying almost daily at this address, and not to sound naked, I will present to you shortly and a photograph of the material which was provided to me by citizens. What are the rules and procedures for the use of service cars by the managers of regional environmental and water inspections, if vehicles are used for personal needs, outside their direct business commitments, is this happening with your knowledge and permission and is it correctly identified by the employees of the relevant regional structures? I'm sure there's hardly any violation of the law. A separate question is what model of behavior is asked by the management of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u254	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u255	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov, the Ministry of Environment and Water controls compliance with environmental legislation on the territory of the country through its regional divisions. Regional environmental and water inspections ensuring the implementation of the state environmental policy at regional level shall be represented by a director and shall be operationally autonomous territorial units. According to the Rules of Procedure of the Regional Inspectorate of the Environment and leads the management and management of the ownership of the RIEW is carried out by the General Administration of the Inspection. In addition, when receiving a signal with suspicions of abuse under their powers under art. 46 of the Law on Administration The Inspectorate of the Ministry of Environment and Water exercises administrative control over the activities of secondary officers with a budget. This is what I can answer because they are really independent operational units and this is the order of control. If you have a signal, you can contact the MoEW Inspectorate in my sense, and I will order it to the MOEW Inspectorate. The street in the town of Tryavna that you have seen in your question, I admit, I'm not aware. I don't know what you mean by that thing. Perhaps you mean that the Director of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection, which is in Veliko Tarnovo, lives in Tryavna and it is possible that this service car was there. But we're gonna check this thing out, see if there's a violation of the law, in that sense. Otherwise, the only thing I can tell you further is that, as Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy and mainly in charge of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan for the Electric Mobility Reform, I intend to make in Bulgaria motor vehicles reduce at the expense of electric road vehicles. And to this end, even today, I hope that we can confirm a solution with which we, as the Ministry of Environment and Water, can give an example in this regard, by purchasing, opening a public contract for the purchase of electric cars, the first to be an example in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u256	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Here's a line, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u257	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I do not claim that there is unlawfulness, but I am not convinced that there is also an appropriateness. I will not be petty of what this service transport of Mrs. Maya Radeva costs a month on the budget. However, we are talking about an innovative approach to climate policies, and the portfolio ministry's car travels every day for one person. If I allow myself to rephrase Socrates, I'll say we're changing the world by changing ourselves. I will give you the signal I received from citizens and from Mrs. Radeva's neighbors, hoping that you will take appropriate measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u258	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. A hole, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u259	I will examine the signal in question, but I still have to say that the city of Tryavna falls within the scope and territory of the Regional Environmental Inspection and leads Veliko Tarnovo, so I could not just take a picture of a vehicle located in the territory to guess what needs it was used for. But also, as they say, if this is the problem with environmental protection in Veliko Tarnovo, we will be very happy. Either way, we're gonna make sure everything is followed by law, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u260	Thank you, Mr. Sandov, and for your participation in today's parliamentary control. This question was a smooth transition to the Minister of Transport and Communications Mr. Nikolay Subev. The first question to him is from the MP Hristo Gazhev on a flight from a Russian government plane in the Bulgarian airspace. Mr. Gazhev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u261	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, today we learned that all who criticize the government are Putinists. So I, as an honest Putinist, will ask you a question: who authorized a flight of the Russian Federation, a plane of the Russian Federation and its government through the territory of Bulgaria? Now a little flashback. I think you were the first Minister of Transport in the European Union to impose sanctions, or rather a ban on flights registered in the Russian Federation through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria. A little later, a common European decision was taken, where most airlines registered in the Russian Federation were banned from flying over the European Union. This led to several cases of Russian Federation officials literally circling all over Europe in order to reach the other end of humanitarian evacuation missions for evicted and declared non grata diplomats from different countries. The most fragile example was when Russian diplomats were expelled from Spain from the Russian Federation and flew over 14,000. km, circling all of Europe from the north so it can land in Madrid and pick up the expelled diplomats. Now on April 24, Easter, by the way, a government plane of the Russian Federation flew more than once, but twice through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria despite these bans, with the route Sochi The question I have asked you is quite short and it is: who has authorised the passage of the flight in question through the Bulgarian airspace? By the way, there was a lot of information in the media about this flight. How does its omission relate to the order issued by you and the sanctions imposed by the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u262	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u263	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gajev, I just want to point out that the ban precludes humanitarian operations, as we did immediately after the ban. In the case under Regulation 334 of that year, from 28 February, air carriers and aircraft from the Russian Federation are prohibited from flying from, to and through the territory of the European Union. By way of derogation from that prohibition, Member States may authorise an aircraft to land on the territory of the Union, to fly or fly over it if they have found that this is necessary for humanitarian purposes. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the competent authority nominated by the Republic of Bulgaria, which may authorise a flight falling within the scope of the Regulation and which, under national law, grants a permit for State aircraft flights. In this regard, I inform you that the implementation of RSD-086 flight on 14 April 2022 on route Soci, Russia, Belgrade, Serbia, Moscow, Russia is authorised by diplomatic channels by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u264	Thank you, Mr. Subev. Here's a line for you, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u265	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Chairman! Thanks for the answer. In other words, it became clear that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has authorised the flight, departure and passage through the air space of the Republic of Bulgaria on the plane in question. This means that I have yet to ask how the humanitarian status of the flight in question is established by Mrs. Genchovska, as I will set an example again. A number of similar flights, if it is for the transport of diplomats, are carried out by Russian airlines from different points of the European Union, and always, except for this case with Bulgaria, they have surrounded the European Union. Only their entry into the very country on which they must be loaded is permitted. I think there is such a case with Denmark, there is a case with Spain. Given that Serbia is not a country, at least as far as I know, has expelled Russian diplomats or in any way introduced sanctions to the Russian Federation, I would be very curious to know already from Mrs Genchovska what this humanitarian status of this flight is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u266	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. A hole, Mr. Secretary? There's no need. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Yavor Bojankov regarding the development of the railway station "Gree Oryahovitsa" and the Intermodal Terminal "Gree Oryahovitsa" and Ruse. Here you are, Mr. Bojankov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, there is no doubt that railway transport is a priority in the world because it is green, because it is fast, convenient, regional too, because people from every district of Bulgaria would be free to work, travel and live in every part of Bulgaria if they had comfortable and modern railway transport. We welcome your ambitious plans for modernization of the railways, but my question is related specifically to the Oryahovitsa station, as Gorna Oryahovitsa is a railway city, with particular importance for the whole region of Veliko Tarnovo and for the development of the region. In the programme "Transport connectivity 2021" the funds for construction of a railway hub in Gorna Oryahovitsa are planned for about 125 million. lv. This node includes full renewal of the railway line, contact network, cargo and distribution station and other activities. In this regard, Minister, I ask you to answer: what are the specific plans at this stage for the modernisation of freight and passenger transport in Gorna Oryahovitsa and how will they be financed, at what stage is the construction of the Intermodal Terminal in Gorna Oryahovitsa and is the financing provided, what does your ministry foresee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u268	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Here you are, Mr. Subev, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u269	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Bojankov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! On the occasion of the intercultural terminal in Ruse is provided a project "Development of the Intermodal Terminal in North Central Planning Region Bulgaria "Ruse" which is included in the approved version of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan with a indicative value of 51,78 million. lv. There is an approved location for the project and a master plan for the development of the Intermodal terminal, which was funded under Operational Programme "Transport" from 2007 to 2013. The preparation of documentation is currently under way for the selection of a contractor with the subject of a technical design, working drawings and details and construction of the Intermodal terminal North Central Planning Area in Bulgaria Ruse, as well as a consulting service for assessment according to the basic requirements for construction projects under the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, carrying out construction supervision and management of the contract, designing a technical design, working drawings and details for the construction of the Intermodal Terminal North Central Planning Region in Bulgaria. Expectations for public procurement are in August this year. It is envisaged that technical design and construction should be carried out for a period of 26 months after the signed contract with the selected contractor. Regarding the construction of an intermediate terminal in Gorna Oryahovitsa, a project is provided for the technological assistance for the construction of an intermediate terminal in the Gorna Oryahovitsa region. This project is included in the preliminary list of projects for funding from the Programme "Transport connectivity 2021" 2027. At the moment, documentation for the award of a contract with the subject of the project is being drawn up.Producing pre-project studies, a project, preparation for founding procedures and documentation for the project.Interior terminal Gorna Oryahovitsa, which will be announced after the technical assistance project has been approved for funding under the Programme of the Transport Service 2021. This approval of funding is expected to happen in the summer of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u270	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a line, Mr. Bojankov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the comprehensive answer, Mr. Minister, which pleases us. The progress is impressive, given that the railway sector in Bulgaria has been purposefully defeated, the BDZ has been deliberately led to bankruptcy for years because of what and what interests we can guess, but it is a fact that the technical condition of freight transport as well, starting with the railway composition: wagons, trains, get to cargo cranes, get to, if you will, the personnel potential, purposefully destroyed BDZ and Freight and passenger transport lost more and more market share in the interests of some companies, but certainly against the interests of the Bulgarian society. So in this policy, which GERB is leading for 12 years in the sector, we realize that it is not easy for you, but the direction in which you are going is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u272	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Would you like a douche? No. Mr. Bojankov, please come in for the next question, which is from you, concerning a concession at Gorna Oryahovitsa Airport and development at Strucklevo Airport.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One inexactity, because it is specifically about the airport in Gorna Oryahovitsa, I have no questions about the airport that you mentioned. But in particular, Gorna Oryahovitsa airport is a topic that really excites the local community and for good reason because repeatedly the previous government of Borisov promised working concession, logistics, transport, even low-cost passenger flights, there are dozens of promises, hundreds of articles that have been poured out, but to this day nothing is happening. The old concessionaire obviously failed to comply with his programme, did not make the necessary investments for what reasons and how he got away with it, this is a long topic. But at the moment it is important for the local community to hear the plans of the government and of the ministry that you run for the so important and strategic for Bulgaria, we can even say not only for Northern Bulgaria, Gorna Oryahovitsa Airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u274	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Here you are, Mr. Minister for Answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u275	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Bojankov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! As I have already had the opportunity to point out, a Swiss commercial company has stated its intention to acquire capital in the concessionaire at a civil airport for public use Gorna Oryahovitsa. This application is subject to an analysis of the positive impact of such a transaction on the concession. As a result of the analysis, there will also be clarity whether the investor meets the criteria initially set out in the competition documentation to which the company whose shares it wants to buy met; evidence that there are grounds for a conclusion under art. 60 of the concession law; evidence on how to finance this activity and not least confirmation that the potential investor will fulfil the main commitments of the concessionaire, including with regard to the additional investments he would have offered. That is, at this point there is a stated intention, it is considered, and if it does not comply, it will be rejected. Information about the concession contract. It was concluded on 11 April 2016 for a period of 35 years and, for the duration of the contract, the concessionaire had to make investments of a total of 32 million. $100,000. lv. without VAT, up to now those have been made amount to 5 million. 969 thousand. BGN 499. without VAT. The concession fees provided for in the contract period separately amount to 31 million. 448 thousand. BGN 572. without VAT. With effect from July 2020, despite the expiry of the four-year grace period provided for under the concession contract, the concessionaire has, to date, paid concession fees of 111 thousand. Two hundred and twenty-two leva. without VAT. So he was planning to pay the remuneration of 31 million, so at this point we have 111 thousand. lv. The Ministry of Transport and Communications appreciates the extremely serious potential of Gorna Oryahovitsa airport for the future development of the region, especially in the light of investment plans for the construction and of an intermediate terminal. We view Gorna Oryahovitsa as a serious transport hub that has serious potential and needs to be developed. The airport's attractiveness is also demonstrated by the interest shown in it and by other potential investors. In this respect, the purpose of the State as a concession is to provide the best opportunities for development at the airport as a public infrastructure site through the best quality and secure investor. To date, we will keep the concessionaire strictly in line with and follow his commitments under the concession contract. If there are other potential investors and interests, we will gladly consider their intentions and applications. In this case, we stick mainly to the concession contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u276	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u277	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. 30 million investment commitment and 100,000. lv. We can only say concession fees: nice work, but German! Obviously, this is how GERB's intentions end, promises, tens of hundreds of articles about what low-cost flights, cargo flights and all kinds of flights go. It seems that the airport and this concession are landing together with GERB. But it makes sense that this is how things work, given the nature of that government. However, we must look forward and forward, the future looks better especially when the Ministry of Transport has in your face a minister who obviously knows how to do his job. Thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u278	Thank you. Would you like a douche? No. Colleagues, please stick to questions and answers, avoid attacking each other within and within parliamentary control. Thank you, Mr. Subev, for participating in control. We move on to the questions of Daniel Lorre, Minister of Innovation and Growth. The first question is from the National Representative Nikolay Drenchev on the progress in implementing the agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on an industrial cooperation programme F-16 block 70. Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u279	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, as we all know two years ago, a one-billion-dollar defence treaty was concluded, with which we should receive eight planes and the contract was worth 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the This is not really a contract, but a set of seven contracts that cover a variety of elements both in terms of aircraft and in terms of armaments. In this set of seven contracts, which is strongly said to be contracts at least in terms of their military unit, because it is not quite fixed what we will get, when we will get it and how much it will cost, but I hope that is not the case with the seventh contract, which is actually concluded with the Ministry of Economy and is a framework agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin on an industrial cooperation programme. This is probably some remnant of the so-called offset program or exactly industrial co-operation. The Ministry of Economy was subsequently divided, part of the functions took over your ministry, Mr. Lorer, so you are being addressed, and it is precisely: how is the framework agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed being implemented? How's the industrial co-operation going? It is obvious that planes will soon not see, but perhaps we will see something else and I hope you will delight us with some good news about something that Bulgaria will ultimately get against this 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The dollar that Bulgarian taxpayers paid in advance to Lockheed Martin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u280	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Here you go, Mr. Lorre.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u281	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Drenchev, after completing the procedure for selecting the updated investment project by the competent authorities, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria authorised by its Decision No 399 of 10 July 2019 the Minister of Economy to hold talks and conclude a framework agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, as Minister of Economy then, and Lockheed Martin on the Industrial Cooperation Programme F-16 Block 70. It was signed on 11 July 2019 in Washington and on 12 July in Sofia. Forty-fourth National Assembly ratified a bill for this framework agreement on 19 July of the same year. Section VIII (Industrial cooperation) of the approved investment costs project states that the most important for the construction are national logistics capabilities for these aeroplanes. As you know, the framework agreement contains a confidentiality clause. Specific information on it shall not be made available to third parties without the express prior written consent of all the Parties to the Agreement. It is essential to note that the application of industrial cooperation, according to the current European norms, cannot be directed towards receiving financial compensation in the form of reverse indirect investments in our economy or other direct economic benefits. This is important to stress on the very mechanism of industrial cooperation. Industrial cooperation aims to increase the capabilities and create new ones that are essential for the defence of the country and our national interest. At the moment, there is no reason, even after a type of crisis, to suggest that the key capabilities will not be acquired as provided for in the framework agreement. Discussions are yet to be held between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Innovation and Growth, together with the selected company Lockheed Martin on a coordinated approach to the implementation of the industrial cooperation programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u282	Thank you, Mr. Lorre. Here's a line for you, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u283	Mr. Laurer, thank you for your answer, he's correct. Of course, I can't say I'm satisfied, I'm definitely not satisfied. Everyone in this room knows that, in fact, with these costs of 1 billion. 256 million aircraft were not bought, no military capabilities were bought, but an indulgence was bought to continue the political future of Minister Karakachanov and perhaps other members of the then ruling cabinet. I very much hope that with the change of government, however, any opportunity to obtain the abilities that at least on paper have been promised to our army will happen. I do not know how much this government is able to do it, but I hope that Bulgaria will eventually be able to demand from our counterparties, however much we are in the position of the little brother, let me say it, although after a delay we will get what the Bulgarian army needs extremely much. As you know, our planes have a leaking resource, they don't support themselves, they don't repair themselves, we expect new planes to come, but they don't come. First the missiles will come, but if we don't have planes for them, there's nothing to launch them with unless we use some thongs or catapults. I very much hope that at some point, both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economy, in so far as it is cashtaking and as far as any logistics options concerning repairs and maintenance of the F-16 aircraft will be acquired, so at least what we have paid, even at a very high price, and what we are promised to come, because our aviation is really failing, our army is failing. A huge cost was made, which was invested only in the Air Force, at the same time and the Air Force received nothing. All other aspects of our defence are also lagging behind and need funds, investments, opportunities, and I very much hope that you will follow closely the implementation of this treaty, as I do and will do so with the idea that ultimately the Bulgarian interest should be as protected as possible and that the Bulgarian Army will perform the functions assigned to it, I would say, which are ordered by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u284	Thank you. A hole? Here you go, Mr. Lorre.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u285	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. We share your concern about the state of the Bulgarian Armed Forces. Especially at this time when the lack of abilities in our country is evident, we are actively working to create abilities in the Bulgarian Army. With regard to the delay in aircraft, you know that the US side has cited force majeure related to the pandemic, and there should be no doubt that the Bulgarian side will seek penalties if the contract is not implemented for commercial reasons, we do not believe that there are any. The other thing that is important to state to the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian electoral, as well as Mr. Defence Minister Zakov already said, is that the money is not paid to the final company, but is in a trust account, so they follow the implementation of the program step by step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u286	Thank you, Mr. Lorre. We move on to the next question to Minister Daniel Lorer, who is one of the MPs Yordan Tsonev, Petar Chobanov and Bajram Bajram concerning changes in the statutes of the Bulgarian Development Bank. Here you are, Mr. Chobanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, as principal of the Bulgarian Development Bank we would like to know about your intentions regarding the business and management of the bank's credit policy. As is known to all the current Prime Minister Mr. Kiril Petkov in his former household of the Minister of Economy and the principal of the bank initiated a change of the management of the bank and modified the statutes concerning the credit policy of the institution on the grounds that the bank does not fulfil its stated functions. A loan limit of up to 5 million was introduced in the Statutes. lv. Of course, this irrigation in the public domain was accompanied by suggestions, many of which just disproved themselves. What do the data on the bank's state at the end of the first quarter of 2022 show if we compare it to that of the previous year? We can see that dynamics are not very positive in terms of development. We've got a credit portfolio shrinking by over 350 million. BGN, provided that in the rest of the banking system during these periods the loan portfolio is increased. We also have a contraction in the bank's assets as a result of this, we have a contraction in deposits, we have a decline in interest income, and seriously, we have a decline in the bank's operational income, and that we really cannot note as a very positive development and behaviour of the main indicators associated with the new management style and with the new bank's management. The question therefore logically arises, as information about this has also been spread in the public domain, do you draw up as a principal of the Bulgarian Development Bank changes in the bank's statutes, namely dropping the credit ceiling of 5 million. BGN, including the question concerned and if a letter for such a change has already been sent to the Bulgarian National Bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u288	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Here you are, Lord Laurer, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u289	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Tsonev, Mr. Chobanov, Mr. Bayram! The short answer is no. We haven't filed a request to change the bank's regulations to raise the ceiling of 5 million. lv. for credit exposure. That's the short answer. A slightly broader answer to your exposé regarding the bank I would like to remind everyone here why the Bulgarian Development Bank is in this state. We found a bank last summer that didn't carry out its legitimate mission. The mission by law of the Development Bank is to support small and medium-sized enterprises. That's the spirit of the legislator. It is in this mission that the new leadership wants to restore the role of the bank to assist Bulgarian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs where commercial banks cannot do so. Therefore, the new strategy of the bank focuses on direct programs to the small and medium-sized business in Bulgaria. However, the bank we found had over 1 billion problematic loans. The 1 billion problems in question loans are the reason why the bank has such huge provisions. 8 of them are particularly large, given the banking secret we cannot speak openly about them, but they are in particularly large amounts and I would say that some of them are particularly problematic. This is the legacy we work with, and with this we will turn this bank into a successful bank for the Bulgarian small and medium-sized business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u290	Thank you, Mr. Lorre. Here's a line, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, of course, these issues that you have put forward are the subject of a comprehensive discussion, and we will not be able to resolve them here within the time we have in terms of provisions, in terms of how to improvise, in terms of what the bank's real mission is and how its objectives should be achieved. The discussion that we have made in the Committee on Budget and Finance is slightly different is the broad answer to your question even if the short one is not. It is also slightly different from the words of Mr. Valentin Mihov, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bank, who said that it is being considered anyway and the possibility of raising this ceiling of loans is being analyzed at the moment. The answer is also slightly different from the words of your replacement Mrs. Boneva, who said that a similar letter has already been sent to the Bulgarian National Bank, which affects the increase of this limit when it comes to syndicated loans in which the Bulgarian Development Bank participates. Of course, there we know that this can be used, I don't blame you for this, but if it is used badly, to circumvent this restriction, as it depends on exactly how much the Development Bank will participate in this syndicated loan. In addition, it became clear from her words that when restructuring the credit there is a certain possibility of circumventing this credit limit. We know that the restructuring of the loan can take place slowly, it can happen faster, and very soon after the granting of the loan itself. And that is why there is also some doubt here that this is not what is being done with a change in this credit ceiling, a limit that you have imposed on yourself. The documents you sent to the BNB by the Budget Committee were requested, as far as I am informed, they have not yet been received, namely the letter and the changes in the statutes themselves, in order to really see what this is about. This policy and similar changes with regard to the Development Bank are part of your coalition agreement and the question arises as to whether your coalition partners are also aware of any such problems. Thus arises an additional question: why does this de facto discrepancy with the slogans of transparency occur and open the door to circumvent the restriction imposed by yourself, including through such changes? Whether because of lobbying interests, whether because of this decline in the main indicators or as part of the Bank's new corporate strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Here you go, Mr. Lorre.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chobanov, the short answer is no again. There are no lobbying interests in the Development Bank. The only interest there is the interest of the Bulgarian economy, and the one that its law has taken into account, small and medium-sized enterprises. The only reason for the requested changes in the statutes are the existing multimillion over the bank's exposure limit, which we have already found there. When BNB returns its approval, we will share in the spirit of transparency with which we work, the new Statute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u294	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We've run out of questions for Daniel Lorre. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to Bozidar Bojanov, Minister of Electronic Governance. The first question is from the MP Dimitar Nikolov on the formation of an analytical unit, which will monitor the content of media and social networks. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u295	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! We live in a time when false news emerges as public enemy number one. And if social media is the field, then false news is the main instrument of hybrid wars. I don't think it would be too much to say that fake news is already ruining human lives and killing people. We are witnessing in social media uncontrollably unpunished trade with influence, dirt and suggestion. Conventional media are, at the same time, forced to carry out their activities in a fragmented, highly contaminated, full of many unfair practices environment. There are also multiple signals this year about cyber attacks on active information portals and intellectual property abuse, on social platforms. In front of the Permanent Committee on Internal Security and Public Order you announced the formation of a special unit, analytically, to the Ministry, which will focus on combating disinformation. We have the Ministry of Culture, which definitely does not want to deal with media service providers, the Council for Electronic Media, which does not seem to have the capacity to fully cover the sector, and the Ministry of Electronic Governance, which I am not convinced has the expertise to do so. My question is this: isn't this unit going to duplicate its activities with the Council for Electronic Media? How will it coordinate actions with the regulatory authority and what professional expertise and legal framework will it step on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u296	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Here you are, Mr. Bojanov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u297	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let me start by stating that there is no authority in the State that is explicitly entrusted with the policy of protection against hybrid threats, including targeted disinformation. The Ministry of Electronic Management on two topics in its portfolio, namely "The Information Society" and "Cybersecurity", nevertheless recognizes this topic, but strictly in analytical order, that is, the struggle, rudely speaking, is not with us. To cross any attempts at false interpretation, to point out that we are guided by one basic principle and it is that neither the government nor any major corporation should decide what is true and what is not, nor have the power to block something simply because it has decided so. We must not create mechanisms for this behavior, and therefore we do not create them, because it can very easily be used in the very wrong direction. What we know about the mechanism of spreading false news, both from our observations and from expert analysis, is the following. Certain entities create, finance disinformation content, maintain factories in quotes of trolls and distribute this content coordinated on social networks. These trolls are often people working from home, being paid a commentary or a published article and by command share these in quotes news in certain groups that are specified by the coordinating troll. This, in turn, leads to an algorithmic amplification of the dissemination of these publications, because trolls make it seem to actually have a public interest in them and, accordingly, it is shown to more people. The same trolls report legitimate voices in society and in social networks specifically, leading to their blocking. These campaigns distort the public discourse on key topics and require the authorities of the executive to be more informed about what is happening in these social networks. To make more informed decisions as executive bodies, we need timely, up-to-date and well squeezed information. The unit we're going to create will be watching for that. It will monitor for narratives, trends, will prepare reports on different authorities on their policy areas, including data on the level of activity on a subject, on the common sentiment on a subject, on the risks that this topic is raised by coordinated non-authentic behaviour. We believe that the state has the right to have such visibility on the topics it is working on. Such practice is also available in many private companies, so we do not do anything unusual. However, the unit has no regulatory function, will not seize the power of the Council for Electronic Media. We will share the reports we are preparing with the Council for Electronic Media so that we can support their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u298	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u299	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A rather supplementary question: is a specific budget provided for this unit? We very much hope that it will not have the character of moving censorship, and I really wish you success in combating false news, because false news factories are already creating fake political projects with a short shelf life. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u300	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. I just called for the tone of the parliamentary debate, and I'm doing it again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u301	As we plan for greater flexibility and the opportunity to attract good analytical capacity, to create the initial service unit, we foresee this to be part of our concept of shared services to the administration in relation to electronic management and cyber security, and in this case hybrid threats. In this sense, this budget is provided for us by the budget of Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u302	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question to Bozidar Bojanov from the MPs Blagovest Kirilov and Ivan Petkov regarding problems in the Personalized Information System of the National Health Insurance Fund, limited access to medicines for patients and blocked hospital reporting. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we have received numerous signals from citizens for delayed services in pharmacies, as well as from medical institutions for delaying the processing of reports and payments due to the inoperative Personalized Information System, or the so-called PIS of NHIF. The system is supported by a service and is located in their data centers. We believe that this situation poses a risk to guarantee citizens access to medicines, as well as accountability and payments to the NHIF's contractual partners. Please give us an answer as to what actions is being taken by the Information Service to ensure data security and work without interruption of systems, and is there the necessary capacity for immediate response in a case such as the one referred to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u304	And thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Bojanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u305	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kirilov, as soon as the incident took place, I immediately asked to be informed by I also asked for their official answer regarding your question. According to their introduction, the application software that works in the National Health Insurance Fund is over 10 years old, in some cases over 14. One of the measures that we need to take in the near future is to replace, renew, refresh at least those systems that inevitably create similar problems as they grow older. Another thing that is important to note is that NHIF systems are working on a whole new infrastructure. That is, the applied part is old, but they are working on a new infrastructure delivered by Oracle.Oracle Exadata Cloud at Customer, that is, it is still in the client's infrastructure. The infrastructure is managed entirely by Oracle's team and the experts of....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The contract includes support with the Oracle supplier. supposes the general support of the systems of the National Health Insurance Fund. Based on the statistical data on the recipes issued and executed during the period of the accident, we can see that there was no drastic problem with the number, i.e. with what was granted. It is indeed likely that there will be delays due to the slower operation of the system, but experts from the "Information Services" have provided access to all external actors in the system by limiting access only to the employees of the NHIF and RHIF. The details of the technical problem have taken place in maximum urgency with the creation of an accident in the Oracle supplier platform, where I have personally familiarized myself with the full details and communication between the engineers of the service and the engineers of the Oracle. I will not engage the MPs with a memory configuration, with a disk space swap and so on details. Here the main question is how to make sure that this does not happen again. One aspect I mentioned was the renewal of the application layer at all. The other is to have a more frequent overview of configurations, of the overall state of systems. That is why next week I have a meeting with the management and with the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund to discuss the parameters of work with However, in conclusion, I would like to point out that the experts in the service of service in response to this incident have done enough to reduce its effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u306	Thank you, Mr. Bojanov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Minister. However, all aspects, especially from the capacity of............................ to deal with similar problems, have never become clear. Let me stress even more the importance of not letting there be a collapse of important systems. We see what happened to the Bulgarian Post Office, so the topic is important enough. Here I will allow myself to quote your speech from the Digital Medicine Forum last week, where you say that this problem is rather an unpleasant chance and a coincidence of circumstances. But if an unpleasant chance leads to a critical system crash in the country, we can't take it as an unpleasant chance. I also ask you to bear in mind that the responsibilities of the NHIF as a client are actually entrusted to In this case, I believe that there should be a more detailed review of the circumstances why it has come to the collapse of the system, how does the service of service actually work on the maintenance of these systems? Let's also ask ourselves the question: is there real capacity to sustain them, or are we just creating a suggestion that everything is okay, until it's not too late? I think we should answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u308	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u309	What I can commit to is to provide you with the information about the discussion of the incident with Oracle, if you no longer have it, to discuss in detail the series of actions and what service is needed in time, and what they have actually finished. Regarding the capacity of the service and the specific incident, I again do not intend to enter here into descriptions of memory configuration problems, which is actually one of the reasons also related to a bug registered, existing glitch with the provider of the database system. But on the general issue, yes, we really need to see if there is a service service to service not only NHIF, but all of its clients in full, and not looking at them in single, because there is certainly capacity for single service services. What we are doing right now is to plan how far the spread of service is going to be on certain systems in the country, which I would like to stress are still a limited number. supplier service does not serve everything in the country. It serves a certain range of systems defined by a decision of the Council of Ministers. So is available capacity enough for this, or do we just have to make an adequate policy to expand this capacity so that experts, as there is, can spend enough time on these systems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u310	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With this we have exhausted the questions to the Minister of Electronic Governance Bozidar Bojanov. We've also run out of time for today's session. We're adjourned. [[The People's Representative Mumun Mumun wants a procedure.]] Let's close the meeting with one procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was under the impression that at 15 we would close the session.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u312	It's in and 12 because there were two six-minute declarations.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u313	Okay, you're very punctual. My procedure is in the way of conduct, because, Mr. Chairman, we expect my colleague Mrs. Kabak and I to ask our questions to the Minister of Tourism. Our question is regarding the upcoming summer season. It's been in April for another month. The business is worried, and we are waiting for the minister to ask ourselves the question and the question of the upcoming summer season. I don't know how it's gonna be arranged again next week. Do you think we can make it to the upcoming winter season to ask about the upcoming summer season? So sometimes, by arranging the ministers, because you cannot disprove me that this is a rotational one, I can prove to you that you do not comply with this. After all, the season began a long time ago on our Black Sea coast, and we must have a bearing on this. It's important.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u314	And thank you, Mr. Mummyun. Your question is indeed entered on 8 April. Here, of course, it should be noted that we also had three consecutive Fridays, where there was no parliamentary control. [[Reply from National Representative Mumun Mumun.]] We didn't get to him last week. We've wasted a lot of time, frankly, from last parliamentary control. And now we didn't get to him because he appears to you immediately after Alexander Nikolov in today's arrangement. I guess for next week, it'll be up in rotation, so to speak, which I don't manually adjust, I assure you, and I hope we'll get ahead of the season with that question. That's why I'm closing today's session. Minister, we don't have time for you. In fact, we have two ministers in the Chamber, two unspoken ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u315	My point is that you should know that I'm here and we're moving things along with the opening of the season. But we don't have the problem, you know.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-20.u316	Thank you. The next regular meeting will take place next Wednesday at 9.00. I hope we'll run out of questions then as much as we can. [[PHONE RINGING]]
