ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u1	Good morning, colleagues! Please register. Colleagues online: Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u3	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u5	They voted 182 MPs in the House and 2 online There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] The Program for the Work of the National Assembly for 2 and 4 March 2022 is the first priority of the proposals received in accordance with art. 47, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the part of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms 1 is the proposal made by the BSP for Bulgaria, namely: "1." Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. There is no proposal from the parliamentary group. 2. A proposal from the Parliamentary Group of Importer is the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021. Adopted in first vote on 10 February 2022. There is no proposal from the parliamentary group of a party. 3. We are continuing to vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Pre-school and School Education. Importer is the Council of Ministers of 31 December 2021. 4. Proposal from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS "Project of a decision to introduce a full-scale compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers in the electricity market of religion, municipalities, social structures, education, healthcare." These four points automatically enter the Programme without putting them to the vote on the first Wednesday rule of the month. Then is the Programme in the part proposed by the President, which we will also put to the vote: It's five o'clock. Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. Resigned by MP Ventsislav Petkov. 6. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. Hamid Hamid is the importer. 7. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Preschool and School Education Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 December 2021. 9. Draft decision on the introduction of a full-scale compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers in the electricity market of faiths, municipalities, social structures, education, health care. 10. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. 11. Blitzcontrol for Friday at 9:00. 12. Regular parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, also for Friday. " Three of the points in the Programme proposed by me coincide with the proposals of the parliamentary groups in the order of art. 47, para. 8, so once we look at them in that order, as the first Wednesday of the month, they will automatically drop out of the next program. Please vote on the program in the part proposed by me. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u6	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u7	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u9	They voted 193 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 195" total: 165 in the Chamber and 2 online " 167" total, against 11, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Before we start with the agenda, I will read you the following messages: The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has, by its own orders, authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an aircraft with crew of the air forces of Greece and of a non-military aircraft with crew of the air forces of Israel. The orders issued are within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the passage with a view to the defence of the country. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international sectary regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearances should be granted to the countries concerned after a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas, the Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notifications were received on 23 and 25 February 2022, respectively, with reference to the entry into force of this Regulation. No 47-203-09-17 and 18 were granted to the Defence Commission. On 25 February 2022, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 3 of 24 February 2022 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 16/021. By its ruling, the Constitutional Court declared the provisions of § 1, para. 1 of the Law for Supplement to the Law on Property (prom., SG No. 46/2006 e.g. Dop. DV, No. 18/2020) and § 2 of the Final Provisions of the Law amending the Law on Property (promise, SG No. 7/2018) .?.......................................................................................................... And last message: The National Statistical Institute has received information about: - Business Conjuncture, February 2022; - Price indexes of producer on the domestic and international market in industry, January 2022 The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. President, I take the floor in the procedure of conduct to express DPS's disagreement with the way in which our parliamentary group tabled on 2 February requests for a hearing of Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev on the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan and on the operational programmes of the new programming period. For one month this hearing has found no place on the agenda of the National Assembly and for this period the need for such a hearing has not only been dismissed, but on the contrary it has become even more urgent. In a declaration from the parliamentary tribune, we at the DPS have already expressed our concern about including projects in the plan, without having a concept of reforms in the areas to which these projects relate and without them being positioned specifically in these concepts, respectively, interlinked with other measures in the concepts. The presentation of a hastily organised and improvised public discussion of some of the projects included by the current government in the plan recently provoked more questions than answers. Some of these projects even raised doubts expressed during the public consultation itself by the participants in it, whether specific projects were included because of specific contractors. Serious concerns also raise the lack of information and analysis about the social and economic consequences of the implementation of some projects under the plan. The delay in preparing the operational programmes for the current programming period 2021 is already huge. The second year of this period is running, and it is expected to be a zero for Bulgaria. There is no information about the level of readiness under these programmes and about when the European Commission can be expected to approve the agreement with Bulgaria for their implementation. Once again, we of the DPS call for a discussion in the National Assembly on the plan and the operational programmes, which will achieve a non-partisan, national consensus on the protection of Bulgaria's national interests through the relevant projects. This requires responsible political behaviour. This also corresponds to the request for a new style of management if this request is really willing to be filled with content and not just a declaration of winning elections. We expect the hearing to be on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Indeed, it is just that this month's legislative programme has been very busy, especially because of three budgets that we should have adopted, but I mean the hearing of Minister Vassilev. For procedure first Mrs. Angelkova, then Mladen Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I address you in the manner of conduct and in particular with regard to parliamentary control, because according to art. 92 of our Rules of Procedure are required by the ministers within 7 days to answer the written questions that the Member of the National Assembly has asked them. I have asked on 14 February 4 questions to the Minister of Transport Nikolay Subev, which, to date, I have just checked on the website of the National Assembly, has not answered my questions related to this I respect one of the questions...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u13	That won't be necessary. Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova, I'll check the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u14	...Sofia Airline "Skopje" and what are the costs that the state has incurred in connection with this flight? In fact, what is mostly the government's long-term vision and strategy in this regard? What are the state subsidies that the state has committed to paying, according to an interview given by the transport minister Nikolay Subev in this regard and regarding infrastructure projects which he stated in his interview that they were government priority, such as the construction of four bridges, three tunnels and vertical helicopters to be used as flying taxis. In this regard, please inform me whether there is an urgent groundlessness which... [[(People from different parliamentary groups have flocked to the banks of IHN and consult with MP Iva Miteva. Line from DPS: Is the view good?]] The view, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u15	We get it, Mrs. Angelkova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u16	...doesn't according to para. 3 of art. 92 The Minister has informed of urgent causes, illness... Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u17	Mrs. Angelkova, your time is up, I understand the idea of your procedure. We'll check the case files. We do not need to bring them into plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u18	Please inform me. Yes, it is, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u19	No, that's not necessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u20	...because parliamentary control is neglecting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u21	But this is not a matter of plenary. I understand, thank you. I'll keep them in mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u23	The next procedure is from Mladen Shishkov. [[Consultations with MP Iva Miteva continue. DPS lines.]] Colleagues, please Mr. Ananiev, Mr. Genov and Mrs. Stratieva! We're listening, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, I take the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct in relation to the Water Act, which we will be watching shortly. I expected that after the pause of two weeks you would revise your decision and would not allow to vote on texts tabled in complete conflict with the rules. Instead, you become an accessory to the complete violation of the Rules of Procedure and make its existence meaningless. In such a case, it would be best for the Rules to be repealed and for everyone to be able to freely import whatever, whenever and as he wishes, without deadlines, without public discussions, without motives, without impact assessment, without opinion of ministries and institutions, industry organisations and NGOs. Quite understandable, by the way, last week the confusion of Mr. Ganev from Why? Because at the first part of the Commission's meeting, the report contained only the main texts of the bill adopted in the first vote. As I have already explained, during the vote additional air texts were proposed concerning the displacement of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology from the Ministry of Education and Science to the Ministry of Environment and Water, after which we strongly objected, of course, and a new report was already presented in the second part of the meeting. However, this report looked more like a draft, there were some remarks on it, empty texts and so on. Once again, we objected to the third part of the sitting, there was already a third report that looked like a real report, and it reflected all the reforms proposed orally by the President. But before the parliament meeting began, we had a fourth report. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. That is why the confusion has occurred with Mr. Ganev and I have really been uncomfortable on his behalf, and we never understood what was the whole procedure that took place then. I'm hoping one of my colleagues will answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u25	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Let us now begin with item one of the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RESTRUCTURING AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR THE WATERS. Until the second reading, the title was voted, § 1, the new § 2 on a proposal from the Committee on Environment and Water and § 3 inclusive. So it is yet to be reported from § 4 onwards. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u26	Proposal of the MPs Manol Genov, Tatiana Sultanova, Zornitsa Stratieva, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 171 the following 1. In para. 2, in the text before t. 1 the words "the Minister of Education and Science" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Environment and Waters." 2. In para. 6: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "the Minister of Education and Science' shall be replaced by "the Minister of Environment and Water'; (b) c. 4 the words "the Minister of Education and Science" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Environment and Waters." 3. In para. 8 the words "the Minister of Education and Science" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Environment and Waters." Proposal of the MPs Manol Genov, Tatiana Sultanova, Zornitsa Stratieva, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 173, para. 1, t. 2 the words the Minister of Education and Science shall be replaced by the Minister of Environment and Waters and shall be replaced by the Minister of Environment and Waters.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u27	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I open the discussion under paragraphs 4 and 5, proposed by the Commission, read by the Chairman of the Committee on Environment and Water Manol Genov. Here you are, Mr. Shishkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, I would like to remind you that the procedure for submitting the bill has not been followed. There is no opinion either from the MoEW or from the Ministry of Education or from the Council of Ministers on the grounds of art. 79, para. 5 of our Rules. Even the opinion of the Institute is not attached to the documents on the website of the National Assembly. We received it via e-mail after requesting it from the President of the Commission. By the way, there's another interesting fact here. The opinion of the Institute was first posted on the website of the National Assembly in the section on the State Budget Act, and then for unexplained reasons disappeared from there. I would like to ask one of the government: in the end, what forced the removal of the Institute's opinion from the section on the State Budget Act and who is afraid of the Institute and what do scientists think? But that's not the end of the absurdity. It turned out that the submitted texts from the State Budget Act to the Water Act were not in full volume. Again, in a strange way, the most important texts of the Institute's financial and administrative independence have not been rewritten in Copi-Pass. But I'll talk to you about it in the next paragraph. On the occasion of Mr. Sandov's speech, which, by the way, I do not see him in the hall, I do not know why that GERB speaks in sync with the Institute, I will read part of their opinion. By the way, they have already distinguished themselves from all political formations, so Mr. Sandov's thesis is no longer up to date, but I will nevertheless read part of the opinion so that all MPs can get acquainted with it. Such structural change is lacking in the coalition arrangements of the ruling majority, it was adopted by the idea of Minister Nikolay Denkov, without any communication with the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology and does not take into account all aspects of such passage. We remain inexplicable about the reasons for this decision to be rendered a very well-functioning one, according to the assessments of the executive, local and judicial authorities, national scientific organization of the Ministry of Education at the Ministry of Interior. With this it will inevitably be aimed at priority solving specific tasks of the Ministry of Environment, which will suffer the service of the other sectors of the country because the Institute does not have unlimited resources from scientists and specialists. This has already been in our 132 years of experience in organizing this activity in Bulgaria. As a result of such a transfer, in addition to the transformation of the Institute from national to government structure, the subsequent neglect of scientific activity is followed. Do we have to make that mistake one more time? The reasons presented in the bill are misleading. The main activity of the Institute is not related to MOEW, but to the development of science in the field of meteorology, hydrology and agrometeorology, as well as to the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria to the global integrated monitoring system of the World Meteorological Organisation of the United Nations. Only part of the operational service of the authorities of the state, local and judicial authorities of the Institute concerns MOEW. For the last 10 years, we have provided the MoEW with operationally all the data available to us and related to its activities. In addition, we draw up the experts requested by the Ministry of Environment, they are below 20% in the overall 11 088 experts for 2020. Extremely disturbing for us at the Institute is the text on the appointment and release of the Director-General. Until now, including after the transition of the Institute to the Ministry of Education, the Director-General has been appointed on a proposal from the Scientific Council. This ensures political neutrality. The proposed sole appointment by the Minister, regardless of who he is, will always be linked to political elements and will allow political pressure with regard to the Institute's expertise. Our scientific autonomy will also be violated. We are asking you not to allow our scientific organization to be politicized. This is part of the Institute's opinion. To conclude, I would turn to colleagues who said they would still be well-meaning to the Institute. I would tell them that it is ultimately good to open the Law, which regulates the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, which was proposed and prepared by the previous regular management. Unfortunately, then the time did not come to be accepted. Only in this way will the status of this institute be resolved once and for all and the wandering of an institution into an institution will be stopped. The rights and obligations in the organisation and activities of the Institute will be regulated and its academic autonomy will be ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u29	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Are there any lines to Mladen Shishkov? [[Mister Borislav Sandov.]] Dear Minister, hello! There are no lines to Mladen Shishkov. Are there any other statements? I can't see. We are closing the discussion under paragraphs 4 and 5. [[The President signals the vote.]] We wait for the MPs to take their seats, some of them waiting to enter the room. [[People representatives Iva Miteva and Manol Genov consult with Minister Borislav Sandov. DPS lines.]] We wait another minute or two so we don't have to take a break. Colleagues, take your seats, please! We are going to vote on § 4 in the version proposed by the Committee on Environment and Water, § 5, which the Commission proposes to establish, also in the version of the Commission, as read by the President of the Commission Manol Genov. We are voting on paragraphs 4 and 5 on the Commission. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u31	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u33	Vote 179 MPs in the House plus 2 online "181:" for 132 plus 2 online " 134," against 45, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u34	The Commission proposes to establish a name The Commission proposes to establish § 6: ........................................................... The flood risk management plans for the period 2016 - 2021 and river basin management plans for the period 2016 - 2021 shall apply until updated plans have been adopted under art. Art. 146o. 159. Proposal of the MPs Manol Genov, Tatiana Sultanova, Zornitsa Stratieva, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Mladen Shishkov, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 7: .................................................... (1) The National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology of the Minister of Education and Science shall be transformed into the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology of the Minister of Environment and Water. (2) The National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology as a National Scientific Organization and the National Hydrometeorological Service of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be a legal entity with a delegated budget which shall be the manager of the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water. (3) The delegated budget under para. 2 gives the Institute the right to a transitional balance of reimbursement in the following year of the excess of the proceeds over payments realised at the end of the financial year. (4) The Director-General of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology shall be appointed and released by the Minister of Environment and Water. (5) The activities of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology shall be carried out by employees working in employment, including those holding academic positions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u35	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I open the discussion on the title of the Department of Transport and Final Provisions and under paragraphs 6 and 7, proposed by the Committee on Environment and Water. Mladen Shishkov wanted to speak. All right, Stefan Shilev, I'm recording Iva Miteva, Krasimir Valchev and Nikolay Nankov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A little clarification regarding the Water Act. Dear Minister, I'm sorry. In accordance with art. 149 of the Water Act water management and water sites and water and farm systems and facilities are implemented on the basis of river basin management plans. At the same time, the draft water law provides for the implementation of the adopted river basin management plan, the flood risk management plan in force until 31 December 2021, extending their effect until the adoption of the new RMP and the RMP. The new RMPs and RMPs may be adopted by the end of this year, i.e. from 1 January 2022 until the adoption of this bill, there are no legal documents in force on the basis of which water management is carried out in Bulgaria. As far as I know from regional inspections, in fact from the pool directorates, up to 15 February there are 211 opinions issued under art. 155, para. 1, t. 23 of the Water Act for their compliance with river basin management plans or compliance with flood risk plans, only for the old ones, not for the new ones, because there are no new ones for one reason or another. I am pleased that relatively quickly, after the new management of the Ministry of Environment and Water was introduced this bill. My question is: where was the esteemed Minister of the Environment and Water during the two terms of office? Why, knowing that river basin management plans and flood risk plans have been delayed since 2022, where have you been that this bill has not been tabled because I think it was originally two or three paragraphs, only regulated that RMPs and RMPs will be valid until new ones are adopted?! I think it is extremely irresponsible what happened in the last 6 months during the two official governments, and this thing should be said in the plenary because it turned out that a lot has been spoken and continues to speak against GERB, but this elementary thing that had to be done is to introduce this PID to the Water Act. This thing could have been done in June, for example, so there's no emptiness since January 1st. So now anyone who decides to appeal an opinion issued by a Swimming Directorate or by RIEW on the basis of an opinion of a Swimming Directorate has the full right because there is a gap at the moment. Fortunately, perhaps today the National Assembly will adopt this bill, and perhaps not. As I recall, during the caretaker government, there was a more serious problem which the minister of the service was dealing with, and perhaps a little too late was involved in the problem, and this was the saga of Vera Susuh, which, of course, did not even resolve quickly or for the benefit of the environment. That's it. I wanted to introduce you to the fact that two months of opinions under the Water Act are, to put it mildly, illegal and create an opportunity for anyone who wants to appeal to them and it is very likely that they will fall into court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u37	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Are there any lines for Stefan Shilev? I'm recording Tatiana Sultanova for a line. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the last speeches, I was a member of the Forty-Fiveth and Forty-Sixth National Assembly, and I remember very well that we hardly adopted any of the sectoral laws. For me, the big problem is that the legislator has not provided for the possibility not to accept it until the expiry of the existing RMPs and RMPs and in that distant 2015 "2016" to accept it, so there is no need to exercise criticism of the caretaker government at the moment. The caretaker government has tabled several bills that are currently under consideration, including the OSW bill, precisely because the last two parliaments have not been able to deal with the relevant bills. But I'm asking you, because time is really running out, so let's focus on this debate, we've already had it for both NIMH and NIMH, and for RMPs and RMPs, let's move on. Besides, I have a meeting of the Council of Ministers, I'd be happy if we could finish the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u39	Thank you. Tatiana Sultanova for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u40	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Shilev, I'll be very brief. Indeed, in order not to make false suggestions, I would like to say in connection with your claim that the Minister of the Environment and Water has delayed the RMPs and RMPs, I would like to say that they have been preparing since 2018. Mr. Shilev, the delay started not during the caretaker government, but long before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova. Is there a second line to Stefan Shilev? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Mrs. Sultanova, I have not talked about the delay of the RMPs and RMPs as a reason, but I have talked about delaying a basically elementary LID of the Water Act, which, if the parliament wishes, could be accepted as early as at the Forty-fiveth National Assembly. I understand that communication was very difficult at the time, in the name of the people, but this is a fact... both the forty-fiveth and forty-sixth National Assembly could not implement this bill of two paragraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u43	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Eva Miteva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I will refer to § 7, which may have been the key in this bill and which has stirred up the spirits in the last few weeks in connection with the passage of the National Institute from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Environment and Water. In 2019 the State Budget Act adopted § 1, according to which then the Science Unit of BAS passed as a legal entity to the Ministry of Education and Science. Unfortunately, what we see is that an attempt has been made to machine and mechanical rewrite the provisions of the 2019 Budget Act, without considering what they mean. So I'm going to stop myself, first of all, on para. 1. Al. 1 of this paragraph says that the National Institute is converted from the National Institute to the Ministry of Education at the National Institute to the Minister of Environment and Water. Colleagues, there's no conversion here. We just have a transition from one legal entity to NIMH, from the Minister of Education to the Minister of Environment and Water, and we have to write this in para. One, to make sure that we don't have any transformation here. Second of all, al. 2 hints at the subject of the Institute, saying that as a national organization the Hydrometeorological Service is a legal person with a delegated budget, an authorising officer with a budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water. In the State Budget Act for 2022 we entered in art. 108 that the NIMH is implementing a delegated budget, that its Director-General is a secondary authorising officer and that we have recorded the powers of the Director-General. I think this is also the wrong approach. This is what we have started, by the way, to do since 2020, 2021, and now in the budget of 2022. These are norms that need to be laid down, and perhaps it is high time to lay in the hull of the Water Act. That's why I'm offering this para. 2 to be amended and replaced by para. 2 and 3 of § 1 of the State Budget Act for 2019, where the subject of activity of the National Institute is clearly defined. There is no doubt that, at the moment, this paragraph does not seek to change the status of the NIMH, but simply to rearrange itself in order for the colleagues to be calm and, in order to ensure that there is no subsequent interpretation between the lawyers, is the Law on the State Budget for 2019 acting, undoubtedly acting in that part, because, even though the State Budget Act is of limited effect and operating within one year, there are rules by it, such as this rule, which is a separate part of the Budget Act and which has unlimited effect over time. This is also in line with the Constitutional Court's practice... Decision No 1 of 2011 and there are many decisions of the Constitutional Court in this direction. So I propose an al. 2 shall read: The National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology is a national scientific organization for carrying out operational activities in the field of meteorology, hydrology and agrometeorology, as well as for the researcher and for scientific and applied, innovative and educational activities. The National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, the National Hydrometeorological Service of the Republic of Bulgaria and does not perform functions in connection with the implementation of the executive power. It is a scientific organization and it cannot perform such functions. In third place, al. 3 proposed in § 7 must be dropped as this is the delegated budget again and already, as I said, we have recorded it in art. 8 of the State Budget Act for 2022 and para. 4 and 3 must be renumbered according to who appoints and releases the Director-General and how the activity is carried out that it is from employees of the labour force, including those holding academic positions. I would like to draw attention here and call on the Committee on Environment and Water: after the adoption of this law, really sit down and very carefully discuss these texts. Article 108 The budget is expected to be updated, we know, by the State Budget Act for 2022 should be repealed by the State Budget Act for 2022, to find its systematic place in the hull of the Water Act. Similarly, the provision relating to the fact that the NIMH is a legal entity, the Director-General how it is appointed, released, to which employees are, must be settled in the corps of the Law so that we do not stand before the same hypotheses every year to copy the same texts and wonder if we change someone's status, or whether we keep it and explain ourselves in the public domain. I'll give you the text, Mr. Chairman, to be voted on and who... If you want me to read only Al again. 1? I've read Al. 2. Alinea 1 works: (1) The National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology of the Minister of Education and Science shall be transferred to the Minister of Environment and Water. Alinea 2 I read it to you with the text in para. 2 and 3 of the 2019 Budget Act, as the status was then adopted. Alinea 3 is: . (3) The Director-General of the National Institute shall be appointed and released by the Minister of Environment and Water. And al. 4 is para. 5 actually on the report: The activities of the National Institute shall be carried out by employees working in employment, including those holding academic posts. Thank you. [[Presents to the President the written texts.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u45	Thank you. Are there any lines to Eva Miteva? There are Krasimir Valchev, Andrei Chorbanov too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Miteva, you have correctly seen the inaccuracies that are so imported between first and second reading provisions. We really have no transformation, we do have a gap between the provisions that we voted in the State Budget Act, at least in terms of the scope of the delegated budget and what is proposed here. Perhaps there is one thing I do not agree with, and it is that it should not serve the executive power. Since the organization has dual status as both a scientific organization and as a national hydrometeorological service, perhaps only this will be dropped. Think about it one more time, in this regard, and my colleague Shishkov will propose. Here my appeal and to the Minister of Environment and Water is: given this dual status, the administrative structures suggest that the Director-General or the person who runs the organization should be appointed by the principal, but when we have this dual status, it is good to at least think about binding competence. On the one hand, to propose the Scientific Council, if two or three candidates have to offer you, and you have to approve it so that we can guarantee not only the financial but also the administrative status of a scientific organisation. Academic organizations have financial and administrative autonomy and this is my appeal to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u47	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Second line, Andrei Chorbanov, come in, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Kind of an addition to what Mr. Valchev said. I would strongly recommend to the Minister of Environment and Water the Institute, which will carry out such an academic position, to develop a nice rulebook that will be fully and not only in compliance with the Law on Higher Education and Science, but in general it is extremely delicate in a situation where an institute is an independent academic function, to have someone to account for to whom to submit this scientific information to. At the moment, if a person enters the Institute's website, you will not find such information to be relevant to his academic function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chorbanov. Is there a third line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Miteva? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u50	Perhaps what Mr. Valchev drew attention to not performing functions in relation to the executive power is a guarantee of the independence of the scientific organization. However, this is not about a typical administrative structure under the Law on Administration, so it is necessary to reorganise it in this way in the Law. If you make such a proposal, there is no obstacle to dropping this sentence, but I note that it is currently in the State Budget Act for 2019. In practice, this is the text that has arranged the status of the Institute, and this text to date continues to work. Even if you accept the text by importer, as is in the Report, this text will continue to act and it will not perform functions with regard to the executive power, so this issue must be dealt with unambiguously.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Mr. Shishkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that my fellow Members from "There is such a people" have paid attention to the remarks that I was going to make as corrections to the bill, because there was indeed one, what to call it, legal equilibrystika, or rather legislative equilibrystika, because the texts that were the basis for the transfer of the Institute from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Education were rewritten by the State Budget Act, but those who guaranteed their autonomy were not rewritten and were tabled between the first and second votes in the State Budget Act. There's been a legal absurdity. At the moment, this law, which must regulate the Institute, is divided into two parts. One part is in the Water Act, the other part remains in the State Budget Act, which texts have already been adopted. So my proposal was right in that direction. The texts, which ensure the financial and administrative independence of the Institute, are also recorded in the Water Act, because we know that the State Budget Act has a limited effect "It acts until the end of the year, after which it will have to be copied again next year, which is absurd. Let there be some sustainability in the Water Act, so that people can know, be calm about what they can do as an activity at the Institute, so I will respect my proposal. I do not know, perhaps it is good for the Commission to discuss it, because they are identical things, but they are shaped differently. At some point, let us discuss it with the Commission to resolve the final texts. I have prepared them and will read them to you: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 7: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) The year-end excess of the overpayments of the NIMH budget shall be included in its budget for the following year. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) The Director-General of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology shall be appointed and released by the Minister of Environment and Water. This is the new which we propose on the proposal of the Scientific Council of the National Institute of Meteorology. 3. A new para is being created. 6 as follows: The delegated budget referred to in paragraph 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1. 2 These are the texts that already exist in the State Budget Act, and I propose that they be recorded in the Water Act. 1. to make compensated changes to the profit and loss plan, informing the chief authorising officer by budget thereof; 2. to dispose of the funds of the NIMH; 3. determine the number and number of staff in the NIMH; 4. to determine the individual salary of the staff within the framework of the approved costs of the NIMH budget for the corresponding budget year. Again, these are texts that have already been adopted in the State Budget Act. My proposal is to include them in the Water Act with the supplement for the way the Director-General will be appointed. That's my offer. Also the proposal that we discussed with colleague Krasimir Valchev for being an independent institute of executive power. This should also be rejected as text. That's my offer. I can give it to you. [[Presents to the President the written texts.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u53	Yes, I'd appreciate it, Mr. Shishkov. Thank you very much. Are there any lines to Mladen Shishkov? I can't see. I give the floor to Jevdet Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! It is obvious that a decision has already been made and the will of the ruling majority is to move the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to the Ministry of Environment and Water. I would just like to remind you that this is not the first attempt to do so to move this structure to the MOEW. While I was a minister, there were such suggestions and ideas again. Then we didn't let this happen, which is why I want to be correct and thank the coalition partners that this didn't happen at the time. However, since this structure will be transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Water, I support the colleagues who have spoken here, including from IHN, Mr. Velchev, Shishkov and other colleagues, that the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology must maintain its status as a scientific structure, function in such a format, content and spirit, and therefore the structure and functioning must be maintained. In view of this, we, the DPS, and I, are in favour of doing so. I mean, the Director really needs to be proposed by the Scientific Council and they take responsibility, and they take responsibility. We can see that they do not share... and during the meeting of the Committee on the Environment and Waters we saw that there is one serious tension, we can all say that. Yes, this structure is moving to the MOEW, but it was good to hear arguments that it would improve the activities of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, it would lead to a lot of what you are, to a lot of what you are, such arguments, unfortunately, we didn't hear. Well, if there's such arguments, let's hear them anyway, given what. It is obvious that the activities of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology do not overlap to a large extent with what is mainly the activity of the Ministry of Environment and Water, and at the same time we have to say that this is an extremely important activity, very important because I have experienced it as Minister of Environment and Water the floods that are becoming, the responsibility that the Minister of Environment and Water carries as a principal for water management in the Republic of Bulgaria, the responsibilities that are given in this respect, ahead would be very valuable and must be valuable and maximum prevention should be realized as far as possible. And it is also obvious that this composition of the Institute has academic positions, academic development, we need to be correct to them, to have the opportunity for career development, for academic development, to be realized. The next thing I know is that Mrs. Miteva here has to be really financially secured in order to have a normal functioning, to have content and to meet the goals they are working for, to have prevention in our country in view of the forecasts they give. It's a sensitive subject. I believe that it is not good to impose on these people the structure and activity of the Institute such as it is not generally for scientific status. In view of this, if this proposal is not accepted the Scientific Council to propose, we are definitely going to the other option.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I am not convinced that the Minister himself would want this to be the way it is. And in conclusion, I would say that in the interests of our society, in the interests of the Ministry of Environment and Water, in the interests of the Ministry of Education and Science and in the interests of the Institute itself, it is for the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to remain as a scientific structure, to function in the best way and to perform the functions and objectives for which it is intended. We will support this in this way, namely: the Director-General, the functioning and financing of this structure to be like a scientific status and to have an academic spirit in the functioning of the Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I've heard your comments and your suggestions, but, Mr. Chakarov, I've been a little confused. There's no way. At this stage, only, as you said, is the principal changing. If I were to bring in and propose this project, I would probably suggest changes, because I think the Institute's activities could be more adequate today. At this point, I guess that's not gonna happen. I hope, rather through dialogue with colleagues from the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, we can achieve some synchronization in what we do as executive power, and what they will do as a scientific organization, which, however, also does applied research, some of which serve the activity of executive power. We need to know that when the Law was written, when the change was made and the status was changed, and it was exported from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, and went to the Ministry of Education and Science, he was written that he would not perform functions in connection with the implementation of the executive power, because in practice in the Ministry of Education and Science he did not perform such functions. The Ministry of Environment and Water will perform such functions. But unfortunately, if so remains the text, what will happen is a kind of inhouse. The Ministry will pay some money to the Institute for an activity it will carry out, will send back to the Ministry of Directorate. But that's really how it's written in the budget then, and if we transfer the texts, that's how it's gonna happen. I hope we can at least optimize some purely administrative expenditure, because, after all, under an institution like a hat, this may be optimizing to some extent. As for the proposals that come from GERB, I think they would not be useful and rather disagree with them. I will tell you why: if the Minister has absolutely no relationship with this Institute, in practice I cannot influence in any way any of the processes, including imagine that if something happens and for some reason the Director is no longer the Director of the Institute, however the Scientific Council offers no one as the Director, we remain in a pending situation. You know what I mean? So I will, of course, comply with all the decisions of the Scientific Council at the Institute, but I think so clearly that the Minister should be able, formally, to release and appoint the Director himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u57	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Are there any lines to Mr. Jevdet Chakarov? I can't see. Krasimir Valchev. Mr. Valchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! The Institute is currently performing numerous functions in terms of the services of the executive, not only of the Ministry of Environment and Water, but also of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, of the Ministry of Energy, of the Ministry of Defence. There are numerous projects with Sofia Municipality as well. It's not true that the Institute refused to assign any tasks. At any moment, he must be able to be assigned a task, and by any minister, whether through the principal, or directly. So in terms of this we have no contradictions, but they are still a scientific, academic organization. One thing you said, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, it is not true that you will have no authority at all. The bound competence also gives you powers. You may refuse the proposal of the Scientific Council. You can bring it back and say, offer me another one. So that's the binding competence. They can only offer, and you can only refuse or accept. This largely corresponds to the dual status of the organization and gives you the right to release the Director-General in the event of an infringement. By the way, no matter how many things we write, we have to admit that they will be insufficient because the Institute needs a separate system, and at the legal level. I hope you'll be proposing a law on the National Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology. This was drawn up, and frankly, I didn't like it because it was too detailed, but perhaps to offer a far shorter law with the most important norms. I use my speech once again to appeal to you, because obviously this will be accepted: to be a principal who supports the Institute. I take it that two weeks ago you spoke emotionally or rather it was a political reflex, accusing them of this being a political attack. There is no political attack. The National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology told each other what they said three years ago. Personally, I would even advise them if you were such a responsible principle that it is better to be with you at the moment to the Minister of Environment than to the Minister of Education and Science, who obviously did not want them, although in principle I think they should be with the Ministry of Education and Science. So this is my request: no more blaming the Institute and us for political play. My appeal, if you are a principal responsible, is: one of you is to propose the Bill, the other is to try to increase the remuneration this year, some minimum policy... [[Replicates from Deputy Prime Minister Borislav Sandov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u59	If you provide staff costs, they determine their remuneration, but the problem is that the budget did not increase staff costs, but within the budget of the chief officer you said that... This question you asked me: How do you know that I will not increase them? " Look, I don't know, because you may have the opportunity within the budget of the Ministry of the Environment to increase their remuneration, although the total staff costs have not been increased, at the expense of other secondary officers and at the expense of reserves. I assume you have such opportunities after you've stated that? To support them, of course, and through capital expenditure, because they need refurbishment, to buy new, modern weather stations. This will improve the activity, not just the organizational changes that you see. As a principal, you will always have the power to influence even when voting on a bound competence. My final appeal to you is: rethink it once again, signal the ruling majority colleagues to support this proposal of bound competence in the appointment of the Director-General, which guarantees the quasi-autonomous status of the organisation. The delegated budget shall be a quasi-autonomous budget. The bound competence delegates, guarantees one quasi-autonomous status of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, which corresponds to its dual function as a scientific organisation, as a national hydrometeorological service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u60	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Are there any lines to Krasimir Valchev? From Jevdet Chakarov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u61	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Valchev, I appeal to you: You have expressed your position, but how do you see the status of a scientific structure such as NIMH? Isn't it declared and guaranteed that the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology will remain so, as the basic rule is not to interfere with any minister in the academic structure and operation? In this case it is declared to be this way, but it is evident that it will not be respected... Today the discussion is, Mr. Minister, let me also address it, the really asked council to propose and you to define it. After all, the minister will appoint him, but a fundamental principle of functioning of an academic structure is violated. So it is good to understand what your opinion is about this case and let everyone take responsibility. I think I was clear: we support the academic spirit. I, as a representative of the academic community, know how and how sensitive the subject is. We also saw the reaction of representatives of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology both during the Commission and when they generally express their position, so we need to be correct. If these principles are not respected, it is the responsibility of those who take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Are there any other lines to Mr. Krasimir Valchev? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Valchev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u63	Thank you. Mr. Chakarov, so I paid attention to the Deputy Prime Minister that the regulation of such quasi-autonomous status, because they will still remain to some extent administrative structure, will by no means deprive him of his powers. He will be able to exercise control and should be able, if there are violations of the Director-General, to replace him, because no one should remain irrevocable when he has committed an infringement. It will be able to carry out an audit, i.e. the Internal Audit Unit will carry out an audit. I guess the Minister won't get involved in purely scientific and academic work. In order to find the cross-section between the two, the administrative responsibility, because there must still be a line of administrative responsibility of control between the Minister and the Institute, and on the other hand, the principles of academic autonomy. Perhaps the best solution is what my colleague Shishkov proposes to regulate binding competence, which will ensure that academically the most authentic person will be proposed as Director-General and the Minister will have the right to decide whether or not to appoint him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u64	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Sandov. I'm also recording Nikolai Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u65	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, Mr. Valchev, you see in the description of the texts in the Law and in the Bill that the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology is not just a scientific organization. It is composed of two main units of.. one is a scientific analytic part, and the other is the National Hydrometeorological Service, which makes measurements and has an applied character. Somehow we shouldn't keep talking about the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology just as a scientific organization. It has its functions to provide data obtained through measurements and through stations that serve a number of state institutions, including the Ministry of Environment and Water. So it's good to make the difference that the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology isn't just a scientific organization. She's even less academic because you were talking about academic. The universities and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are really academic organizations, while the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology has academic activities to some extent and it is quite minimal, in so far as part of the status of employees is to deal with this activity and are accredited and evaluated by the Ministry of Education and Science. My request is that we look at the whole of this organization and institution more with its applied nature. I apologize, but if 720 people were only involved in science, we would be one of the leading scientists in climate science and hydrology, and I wouldn't say we're at that level. I wish we could be, because this is one of the important topics of today, of our modern times, but unfortunately, we are not. I hope to contribute to growing up in this respect, as far as my education is concerned, but alas, we are not. From this point of view, I think it is absolutely sufficient, as is written in the text. As I said, I will take into account what the scientific collective itself has as suggestions, but it cannot be the only defining one and I will become a rubber stamp of what they imagine only from the scientific institute. In the end, as a good owner, I should have, first of all, the commitment to the whole society and to these institutions to be the function of this society to be satisfied, whether with scientific data, whether with applied data, but ultimately my role is to perform the function of a minister as a holder of care for society and not for the care of the institutions they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u66	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Nikolai Drenchev, for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u67	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We're looking at a second reading of the Water Act. The Council of Ministers submitted an amendment to two members concerning risk management. Then there was a transfer of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. I want to remind you that in ours [[noise and lines]] Rules in art. 79...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u68	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u69	...we have accepted that proposals that go beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote should not find a place in the second vote. However, for some reason, this sudden fire move of the NIMH from one principal to another took place during some heart attack meetings of the Environment and Water Commission, which were three times interrupted. There were all kinds of changes on the knee. Finally, they went through the Committee on Environment and Water and entered the Chamber here. Honor and tribute to Mrs. Miteva, who tried on her knee to make several significant changes to sanitize this proposal, which was a proposal we should accept here. After all, I have no idea why this haste is and what is the point of this thing that we are doing here in this way of a fire, which we are obviously going to do in haste, and then we will have to correct it by correcting the amendment. My proposal is to limit the adoption of what the Council of Ministers has done to the reasons with which the Law was introduced, there is nothing for the NIMH, we have already allowed them to remain in force until the adoption of new plans. They have the opportunity to do their work as urgently and urgently must be done. With regard to the status of the NIMH, the adoption of the NIMH, for the relocation of the NIMH, I suggest that we leave for some next moment, when a law will be introduced from beginning to end, it will be read, the reasons will be heard. Because we hadn't heard Mr. Sandov say them before in plenary. Personally, I wouldn't lend them, somehow I thought it was not a very hard argument. Maybe I'm wrong. I'd prefer to see them written in writing, to think. In the same way, I would like to see Mrs. Miteva's motives in writing. Let me think about it. She said them very well. A little quickly within five minutes of her time. Are they really like this? I'm not so sure. Here, Mr. Valchev, made an immediate remark that in fact the NIMH has duality in its structure, on the one hand, is a scientific institute, and on the other hand, is a hydrometeorological service. So we mix a little casually and a little quickly into an institution. I don't see any reason why we should do this. For this reason, I propose that we reject these proposals. To remain NIMH with the principal Ministry of Education and Science. When we see reasonable arguments, as well as the overall legislation that we are being offered, to accept in its fullness when the procedure is being followed, so that we can consider all that is, to be given enough time, to be able to consider it, not to catch it in the air, a line, a word, and, on the contrary, when we do something, to do it once and for all, and not to fire as soon as we have corrected it, to have to go through committees again and to correct it. My call and proposal is to reject the changes proposed in this paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u70	Mr. Drenchev, which specific paragraphs? Everyone in § 7 or all of it? [[The President and Nikolay Danchev are specified on the proposal so made away from the microphones.]] Are there any lines to Nikolai Drenchev? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedural proposal is to vote separately on my proposal, as the proposal under para. 4 to be voted separately. All other texts should be in full order, as I have suggested.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u72	All your proposals would have been put to the vote separately, Mr. Shishkov, subparagraph by subparagraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u73	Great.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote. First of all, I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on the Environment and Waters for the creation of a name for the division. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u75	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u76	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u77	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u78	Thank you. Vote in this House 149 MPs and online 2.A total of 151: 130 and online 2.A total of 132, against 13, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 6 in the version proposed by the Committee on Environment and Water, as read by Manol Genov, President of the Commission. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u79	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u80	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u81	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u82	They voted in the House 143 MPs and online 2. 145 total: 122 and online 2. 124 total, against 19, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to § 7. First place on par. 1. I put to the vote the editorial proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva, which is in the text proposed by the Commission, is translated into the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. In this way, the text will acquire the following form: the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to the Minister of Education and Science goes to the Minister of Environment and Water. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u83	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u84	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u85	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u86	They voted in the House 143 MPs and online 2. 145 total: 122 and online 2. 124 total, against 20, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u87	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u88	It's a re-vote. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u89	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u90	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u91	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u92	They voted in the House 143 MPs and online 2. 145 total: 121 and 2 online, 123 total, against 20, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to al. 2. First of all, we are voting on Iva Miteva's editorial proposal. The National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology is the National Scientific Organization for the Implementation of Operational Activities in the Field of Meteorology, Hydrology and Agrometeorology, as well as for Research and Applied, Innovative and Educational Activities. The National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology is the National Hydrometeorological Service of the Republic of Bulgaria and does not perform functions in connection with the implementation of the executive power. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u93	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u94	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u95	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u96	Vote in this House 136 Members of Parliament and Online 2 "A total of 138: 133 and online 2 "A total of 135, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to al. 3. By para. 3 There are two proposals: the first is Iva Miteva for dropping out of para. 3, the second is Mladen Shishkov's amendment to para. 3. We are voting on Eva Miteva's motion to drop para. 3. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u97	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u98	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u99	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u100	Vote in this House 182 MPs and 2 online " 184" total: 109 and 2 online "111" total, against 45, abstention 28. The proposal to drop para. Three is accepted. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] We're going over the offer. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u102	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u103	(We continue The Change, the Internet platform for video conference): Yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u104	Vote in this House 142 MPs and 2 online " 144" total: 119 and 2 online " 121" total, against 8, abstention 15. The proposal to drop para. 3 is accepted, respectively. 4 and para. 5 shall be renumbered as para. 3 and para. 4. We move on to the proposals of the MP Mladen Shishkov. I will not put to the vote this amendment to para. 3, since she dropped out. By para. 4 which after the removal of para. 3 becomes para. 3, Mladen Shishkov's proposal is: at the end of the sentence, after the lead to be placed a comma and the text is proposed by the Scientific Council of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. We vote on Mladen Shishkov's proposal. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u105	(We continue The Change, the Internet platform for video conference): Against.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u106	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u107	(We continue The Change, the Internet platform for video conference): Against.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u108	Vote in this House 194 MPs and 2 online " 196" total: for 73, against 98 and 2 online "100" abstentions. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is for the creation of a new paragraph with the following text: The delegated budget under para. 2... Mr. Shishkov, however, al. 2, which talked about the delegated budget, has already been amended. Can you just come here for a second, please? [[Reference between the President and the National Representative Mladen Shishkov.]] Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Due to the adopted editorial amendment in para. 2 in Mladen Shishkov's proposal will have to drop the reference to para. 2. I read Mladen Shishkov's proposal for the creation of a whole new paragraph will appear para. 5, with the following text: The delegation budget gives the Institute the right: 1. to make compensated changes to the profit and loss plan, informing the chief authorising officer by budget thereof; 2. to dispose of the funds of the NIMH; 3. determine the number and number of staff in the NIMH; 4. to determine the individual salary of the staff within the framework of the approved costs of the NIMH budget for the corresponding budget year. We are voting on Mladen Shishkov's proposal to create a new paragraph. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u109	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u110	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u111	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u112	Vote in the House 192 MPs and 2 online " 194" total: for 71, against 112 and 2 online " 114" abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on § 7, proposed for the creation by the Commission, as amended by the Commission in accordance with the amendments already adopted in para. 1 of the already adopted amendment to the text of para. 2, the removal of para. 3 and respectively the renumbering of para. 4 and para. 5 in para. 3 and para. 4. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u114	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u116	Vote in this House 142 MPs and 2 online " 144" total: 132 and 2 online " 134" against 7, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Genov. I suggest you read them to the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u117	Proposal of the MPs Manol Genov, Tatiana Sultanova, Zornitsa Stratieva, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 8: ................................................................................... The employment relations of the employees of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology with the Minister of Education and Science, including those holding academic positions, shall be governed according to art. 123 of the Labour Code. Proposal of the MPs Manol Genov, Tatiana Sultanova, Zornitsa Stratieva, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 9: ..................................................... The property, the archive and all rights and obligations, including membership in national, European and international organizations of meteorology and hydrology, and the right to train PhD students in accredited doctoral programs of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology at the Ministry of Education and Science, are transferred to the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology at the Ministry of Environment and Waters. Proposal of the MPs Manol Genov, Tatiana Sultanova, Zornitsa Stratieva, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 10: ..................................................... Within two months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Environment and Water, shall adopt the necessary amendments to the regulations for the design and operation of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. Proposal of the MPs Manol Genov, Tatiana Sultanova, Zornitsa Stratieva, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 11: ..................................................... In the Act on the Cleanliness of the Air (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 22, para. 1 the words "the Minister of Education and Science" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Environment and Waters." The Commission proposes to establish § 12: ................................................................................... Paragraphs 1 and 3 shall enter into force from 1 January 2022
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u118	I open the discussion on the proposed proposals for the creation of new paragraphs. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We're closing the discussion. We move on to a vote by voting them enbloc. I am voting on the new paragraphs in the Commission's version of paragraphs 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12. Colleagues online: Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u120	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u122	In total, 134 MPs voted: 121 total, against 12, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. That is also the end of this item on the agenda. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Bayram.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This Monday, we had a very emotional meeting with colleagues from the Multi-Multimate Election Region together with voters, activists. Among them were repressed by Boyko Rashkov's militia actions in the last November elections. They wanted us to convey some words to Mr. Nikola Minchev. In general, our voters want to support a young President of the National Assembly, but they also had some recommendations to him. The recommendations were to stop listening, Mr. Minchev, the militia philosophy of Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u124	Mr. Bajram, we still need to limit our qualifications a little bit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u125	Okay. And to change the status of Mr. Mustafa Karadaye's question, the Chairman of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms on 15 December, because no answer has been received and it has been almost 100 days, and you have not changed the status. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms do not accept that this question has been answered. Last Friday Mr. Tsonev said what is common between religion, vacuum cleaner and election. Our electorate activists have asked us to say from the highest tribune in the National Assembly what is the similarity between the so-called Revival Process, the Kalashnik and the November 14th elections? At many election meetings in the municipalities of Momchilgrad and Krumovgrad, there were border police and military with AKs that welcomed us on the road and noticed, half an hour before the election meeting there were border police.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u126	The weather, Mr. Bayram!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u127	Just two sentences.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u128	Yeah, but still.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u129	That's where the AKs met us. We would like to state from this point that we were not scared of the AKs before 1990 and now we will not be scared and we are against Boyko Rashkov's militia. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering by DPS: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u130	Mr. Bayram, I think we're crossing the line slightly with these comparisons, allusions, AKs. I think military terminology is good in these times to keep her out of parliament. As for the status, no matter how many times you go out on this stand, there is an answer, you may not like it, but some answer there is, so the status is one, so there is no way to change that. Ask your questions again, there will be oral questions, but there is no way to hold a hostage parliament and the President of the National Assembly on the DPS's discontent with the answer or lack of sufficient satisfactory response on behalf of one minister. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] We'll continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u131	For a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u132	Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u133	Dear colleagues! Mr. Chairman, can you tell me which border has been crossed here in Parliament, and can you tell me how executive control is exercised? Isn't this the place, and isn't this the authority that controls executive acts? Do you define the boundaries? Weren't the boundaries crossed exactly in the choices we're asking about the specific cases? And you decide where we cross the border or who crossed it?! Mr. Chairman, don't turn the National Assembly into a rubber stamp. We've already seen this. We exercise as an institution control over the acts and actions of the executive, especially when they violate human rights and freedoms. And that is not subject to your comment. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering by DPS: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u134	Thank you, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u135	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u136	The way you're running things? Here you are, in the manner of conduct. The question of boundaries, Mr. Letifov, is subjective opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I do not know whether the President of the National Assembly is hostage to the daily request of an additional response from the DPS group, but definitely all of us, the MPs, are hostages to this literally like Chinese torture repeating the same thing every day. There's obviously a problem. Apparently, this group is not happy with the answer she received. Obviously, you have no desire to do anything about it. Invite them, make a conversation and save us, first, the parliamentary time we waste every day. Secondly, solve this question.. contact Minister Rashkov, see exactly what are the specific requirements they have and which is the discontent. And please, very please, solve this issue and stop with this thing every day, three or four times a day, we listen to the exact same thing, told in the most incredible ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. As far as I know, such talks have been made, but it is a matter of the Minister of Interior's assessment what to answer and how to answer.... we have no way to oblige it. And as far as the request is concerned, I don't really want to qualify it, but it's about changing the status of the issue on the Internet. If this is the main demand, there is no way we can do it as an answer has arrived. And from then on there are other forms and methods, colleagues from the DPS, these answers to be sought and received. But we are patient, if we have to listen to it every day, just to know that this spring is already a little overwinded and it is becoming less interesting and useful for you as a result of these daily stocks. We're moving on now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u139	For a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u140	I guess we're not gonna move on. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will try to be very brief.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u142	Two minutes. If you can put your card on, if you don't, take the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u143	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. The subject is in connection with the crossed borders and crossed borders. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this topic is being raised every day so that at least this House can understand that in the July and November elections, the borders were crossed by the police was turned into a militia! There is an illegal invasion of the homes of disabled people, people over 80 years old and this thing continues after the elections in democratic, European Bulgaria, a member of the European Union, in the 21st century, and without legal basis and we want an inspection to be carried out. Dear Members of Parliament, I want to be firm, do not think of it as Chinese torture, because this moving fascism that we have seen it in 2021, we are the ones who must cross it and it is not Chinese torture repeating every day of the topic, and repeating every day of the topic is a call on the National Assembly to fulfil its role and nobody from now on to dare to cross the law and carry out militia against political opponents. These repressions must end once and for all. We have witnessed this for 12 years, but to this extent, the invasion of people's homes has never happened. Repressions against the party apparatus for 12 years we lived it from GERB, but the change came with the crossing of the border. And the National Assembly, I appeal and appeal to all the MPs, we are the ones who need to stop this outrage, and Bulgaria to enter into normal European frameworks. Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering by DPS Bravo! (Applause and cheering by DPS Bravo!)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u144	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Are there any other procedures? I can't see. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE CONSUMER PROTECTION LAW. Are you reporting, Mr. Dimitrov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u145	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! First, if you allow a procedure for admission in the hall to discuss Emil Aleksiev's Bill from the Ministry of Economy and Industry................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u146	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. You surprised the MPs. I'll wait till they get back to the gym. I also ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs who are outside to come in for a vote. Please, the procedure for the admission of the voting mode. Colleagues online: Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u148	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u149	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u150	Cancel the vote! We are continuing with the texts on the Bill, and a little later we will vote again in the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u151	We can't go any further, we don't have a quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u152	Yes, the President of the National Assembly can judge that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u153	There's no quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u154	We can continue with the presentation of the Bill, read your Rules, Members. Go on, Mr. Dimitrov. Please order Members who intend to participate in the National Assembly meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u155	"Report on a bill amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, No 47-102-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021, adopted in the first vote on 10 February 2022. The Law on Consumer Protection is amended and supplemented by the Law on Consumer Protection. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3 by: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." point 3 is amended as follows: "3." the trader's registered office and address, telephone number and e-mail address; where the trader provides other means of online communication which ensure that the consumer can store any written correspondence with the trader, including the date and time of such correspondence, the information shall also contain a detailed description of those other means; the means of communication provided by the trader must enable the consumer to contact the trader quickly and communicate effectively with him; where necessary, the trader shall also provide a registered office and an address of management as well as data identifying the trader on whose behalf he acts; 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 concerning t. 18 after the word "supplied', the words "supplied' shall be inserted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, as in para. 1 t. 3 the word "legislation" shall be replaced by the title "and" in para. 2 the words "the legislation' are replaced by "the'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, i.e. 1 is amended as follows: "1." Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: s (5) When the contract is concluded using a distance communication tool with a limited space or time to provide information, prior to the conclusion of the contract, the trader shall provide the consumer with the means used for communication at least the pre-contract information under art. 47, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 5, 8 and 15, with the exception of the standard form for the exercise of the right of withdrawal pursuant to Annex No 6. Prior to the conclusion of the contract, the trader shall provide the consumer with the remaining information under art. 47, para. 1, including the standard form for the exercise of the right of withdrawal, in an appropriate manner under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7 by: 1. In para. 8 the word "the next' is replaced by "the next'. 2. Paragraph 9 is amended as follows: ? (9) Alinea 7 shall be applied independently of para. 8..................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. Proposal from the National Representative Petar Kanev: Paragraph 9a is inserted: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) On the basis of art. 79, para. The Commission shall adopt the proposal as admissible and shall support it. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61a para. 2 is The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12, as in para. 2 the word "website' is replaced by "internet page'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: § 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 68b the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word. "Including', "Industrial content' and "digital services' shall be added. 2. The creation of para. 3: . (3) Product within the meaning of this Section is any good or service, including real estate, digital content and digital services, as well as rights and obligations. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 68e the following additions are made: 1. In para. 3 is created t. 3: any supply of goods in a Member State of the European Union as identical to a commodity marketed in other Member States of the European Union where that commodity has significant differences in composition or characteristics, unless justified by legal and objective factors such as: (a) the requirements of national law; (b) the presence or seasonal nature of the raw materials necessary for the production of the goods; (c) the existence of voluntary strategies aimed at improving access to healthy foods; (d) the right of traders to offer goods of the same brand in packages of different weight or volume on different markets. 2. The creation of para. 4. (4) The misleading nature of the supply of goods under para. 3, p. 3 shall be assessed taking into account whether the average consumer can easily identify the difference in the goods on the basis of a verification of the information provided by the trader and of the relevant information. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u156	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I open the discussion on the name of the Bill and paragraphs 1.. 16 including the Commission. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u157	Dear colleagues! This bill is in connection with a criminal procedure against the Republic of Bulgaria, so I turn to all MPs, as during the meeting of the Economic Commission we all voted together and participated. I turn around to approach expertly and to participate in the vote, not to prove that there is no quorum on this important issue for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u158	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Dear colleagues, first of all, I will put again to the vote access to the room of Emil Aleksiev, Head of the Department of Consumer Politics, in the Directorate of Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy.Dimitar Margaritov, Chairman of the Commission for Consumer Protection. Please vote allow us to enter the Chamber of the Two. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u160	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u162	They voted in this House 122 MPs and online 2. 124 total: 121 and 2 online.. 123 total, not against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the persons to the hall by the Quaestors. We are going to vote on the name of the Bill. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u164	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u166	Vote in this House 136 MPs and online 2. A total of 138: for 122 and 2 online.. 124 total, not against, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 1.. 16 including the numbering of the Commission on economic policy and innovation by reference to: § 1................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u168	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u170	Vote in the House 136 MPs and online 2.A total of 138: for 123 and 2 online.A total of 125, against 11, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u171	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 18. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 170 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 6: (a) point (b) is amended as follows: (b) he is a publisher of a magazine or other specialized edition of consumer themes; (b) in point (d) the words "other than those referred to in points (b) and (d)'shall be added at the end; (c) in point (e) the words "other than those referred to in points (b) and (d)'shall be added at the end. 2. In para. 2 is finally added to the industry. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 172 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: . (2) The funds under para. 1 shall be distributed by order of the Minister of Economy and Industry at his discretion, according to the activity and subject to the principles of objectivity, transparency and impartiality. The order may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal shall not suspend its execution unless otherwise requested by the court. 2. In para. 3 after the words the Minister of Economy is added. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 173 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words the Minister of Economy. The industry is added. 2. In para. 3 everywhere after the word the economy is added to the industry. 3. In para. 4 the words "the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy and Industry, the Ministry of Transport and Communications." 4. In para. 5 and 6 after the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 22. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 190d, para. 3 words within the meaning of art. 3, p. 3 and 4 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394' are deleted and the words "the same Regulation' are replaced by "Regulation (EU) 2017/2394'. Under § 21, there is a proposal from the MP Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 25. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for a new § 21 but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 24. The Commission proposes to create a new § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss A new article shall be created. 203: Art. 203. (1) In the event of a widespread infringement or widespread infringement with a Union dimension established by the Commission for Consumer Protection when implementing measures for the implementation of consumer protection legislation in the framework of coordinated actions undertaken by the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union pursuant to art. 21 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394, the President of the Commission for Consumer Protection shall impose on sole traders and legal entities a penalty of up to 4 per cent of their turnover in the country in the previous financial year for: 1. violation of the provisions of art. Art. 68c - 68h and Art. 68k on the application of unfair commercial practices; 2. violation of the provisions of art. Art. 4, Art. 47, para. 1 suppl. 3, para. Article 7 (1) (b) 47a, 48, 49, art. 52, para. Art. 4, Art. 54, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 55, para. Art. 3, Art. 58, para. Art. 1, art. 62, para. Art. 1, art. 62a, 62b, 62c, art. 62d, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 62e, as well as for obstruction of the right of the consumer under art. 50; 3. continuing application by a trader of a clause included in a contract with general terms and conditions with consumers, which has been declared by a decision of the court to be unfair within the meaning of art. 143 " 147. (2) In the cases under para. 1 for violation of the provisions of art. Art. 16, art. 19th para. Art. 2, Art. 20, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 21, 23 and art. 65 on the indication of the prices of goods, the President of the Commission for Consumer Protection imposes a penalty of 5000 to 50 000 BGN on sole traders and legal persons. (3) Where as a result of a coordinated action taken pursuant to art. 21 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394, the competent authorities of the Member States shall decide to impose the sanction by a competent authority of a Member State of the European Union on behalf of all the Member States of the European Union participating in the coordinated action, the President of the Commission for Consumer Protection shall impose on sole traders and legal persons a penalty of up to 4 per cent of their turnover in all the Member States of the European Union affected by the infringement. When the perpetrator of the infringement under para. 1 is part of a merger within the meaning of Chapter 18 of the Commercial Law, when imposing the penalty, account shall be taken of the total turnover of the merger in the Member States of the European Union affected by the infringement. (4) In the cases under para. 1 and 3, where there is no information on the turnover realised by the perpetrators of the infringement in the previous financial year in the Member States of the European Union affected by the infringement, a penalty of up to BGN 3 920 000 shall be imposed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u172	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I am opening a discussion on paragraphs 17 to 30, including those presented by the Chairman of the Steering Committee. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Before going to the vote, I will specify what we are voting for: paragraphs 17 to 30 by the numbering of the Commission, with § 17 and § 18 by text of the importer; § 19 and § 20 are in the version of the Commission; § 21 is new, proposed to be set up by the Commission; § 22 is by importer; § 23 is new by proposal from the Commission; § 21 by numbering of the importer is proposed by the Commission to be rejected because its systematic place is found elsewhere in the Draft; § 24 is by importer; § 25 is new by proposal from the Commission; paragraphs 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30 by numbering of the Commission are according to the text of the importer. We vote all the paragraphs anbloc. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u174	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u176	They voted 123 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online "125" total: 121 in the Chamber and 2 online "123," against 1, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Since it is 11.25 pm, perhaps now is a better time to give half an hour of rest and then we will continue with the Commission report. Holiday till 11.55. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u177	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. Mr. Dimitrov, come in. We have reached § 31 on the Commission, which is 28 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we are on page 15. ....... 28........................................... 28 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 31. § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 32. § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 33. § 31. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 34: § 34. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 230f: Art. 230. Where a fine or penalty is imposed, the President of the Commission for Consumer Protection shall, where applicable, take into account: 1. the nature, gravity, scale and duration of the infringement; 2. the actions taken by the trader to mitigate or correct the damage suffered by consumers; 3. previous infringements of the trader, if any; 4. the financial benefits received or the losses prevented by the trader, if any; 5. the penalties imposed on the trader for the same infringement in another Member State of the European Union in cross-border cases where the information on those penalties is available through the cooperation mechanism between national authorities responsible for the implementation of consumer protection legislation pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2017/2394; 6. other aggravating or mitigating circumstances applicable to the case in question. § 32. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 35: § 35. The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. Paragraph 1c is amended as follows: § 1c. (1) The provision of art. 4 for contracts other than a distance contract or a non-commercial contract and Section I of Chapter 4 shall apply to contracts concluded between a trader and a consumer under which the consumer pays or undertakes to pay a price. They shall also apply to contracts for the supply of water, gas, electricity or central heating, including those provided by public suppliers, to the extent that such goods are provided on the basis of a contract. (2) The provision of art. 4 for contracts other than a distance contract or a non-commercial contract, and Section I of Chapter 4 shall also apply to contracts concluded between a trader and a consumer under which the trader provides or undertakes to provide digital content which is not on a material medium or a digital service to the consumer and the consumer provides or undertakes to provide personal data to the trader, except where the personal data provided by the consumer is processed by the trader exclusively for the purpose of providing the digital content which is not on a material medium or the digital service or to allow the trader to fulfil its obligations arising from a law insofar as the trader does not process such data for other purposes. 2. Paragraph 1i is repealed. 3. A new § 9: is being created. § 9. The provisions of Section I of Chapter 4 shall not apply to goods sold in forced execution as well as to sales of items abandoned or withdrawn for the benefit of the State carried out by state authorities. 4. At §13. (a) point 13 is amended as follows: "13." It is a concept within the meaning of § 6, point. 18 of the additional provisions of the Law on the provision of digital content and services and for the sale of goods. (b) points 34 and 35 are amended as follows: It's 34. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: 35. A service is a contract under which the trader provides or undertakes to provide a service to the consumer, including any contract under which the trader provides or is obliged to provide a service to the consumer. digital service. (c) points 38 "40' are amended as follows: "38." supplied content is a concept within the meaning of § 6, point. 1 of the additional provisions of the Law on the provision of digital content and digital services and on the sale of goods. 39. The functionality of digital content or digital service is a concept within the meaning of § 6, t. 12 of the additional provisions of the Law on the provision of digital content and digital services and on the sale of goods. 40. "Operative compatibility of digital content or digital service' is a concept within the meaning of § 6, t. 13 of the additional provisions of the Law on the provision of digital content and services and for the sale of goods. (d) point 46 is amended as follows: ..46. "Online trading venue" means a service that, through the use of software, including a website, part of a website or app managed by or on behalf of the trader, allows users to conclude distance contracts with other traders or users. (e) create a t. 47 ..47. "Communication of digital content or digital service' is a concept within the meaning of § 6, t. 10 of the additional provisions of the Law on the provision of digital content and digital services and on the sale of goods. 48. A provider on an online trading venue shall mean any trader supplying on an online trading venue to users. 49. A service is a concept within the meaning of § 6, point. 2 of the additional provisions of the Law on the provision of digital content and digital services and on the sale of goods. 50. "Classification' is the relative priority position of products covered by Chapter Four, Section III, as represented, organised or communicated by the trader, regardless of the technological means used for such presentation, organisation or communication, including as a result of the use of algorithmic sequence, classification mechanism or evaluation mechanism, visual illumination or other means of emphasis, or a combination thereof. 51. "Wide-spread infringement" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 3 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394. 52. "Wide-spread infringement with a Union dimension" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 4 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394. 53. "Personal data" is personal data within the meaning of art. 4 t. 1 of Regulation (EU) are amended as follows: 5. In § 13a a new item is created. 2: "2." Directive (EU) 2019/2161 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 amending Council Directive 93/13/EEC and Directives 98/6/EC, 2005/29/EC and 2011/83/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the better application and modernisation of consumer protection rules in the Union, in brackets when it is published. § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 36, and the word § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 37. The Commission proposes to create a new § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In the other texts of the law, the words "the Minister of Economy" and "the Minister of Economy" shall be replaced respectively by "the Minister of Economy and Industry" and "the Minister of Economy and Industry" and "the Minister of Economy and Industry" and everywhere the words "the Minister of Economy" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Economy and Industry."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u179	All right, let's get it over with with with the Additional Provisions. Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I am opening a discussion on § 31 to § 38 according to the numbering of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, as presented by its President. Is there anyone who wants to speak? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Before going to the vote, let me say once again we will vote anbloc from § 31 to § 38, as: § 31 is an importer; § 32 is an importer test; § 33 is an importer text; § 34, 35 and 36 are an importer version of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation; § 37 is an importer text, and § 38 is a new Voting mode. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u181	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u183	So, very interesting. I won't. Colleagues, it's about some not very controversial texts, I really don't understand, it's not the budget. [[Heckling]] I didn't say that you were in the way, but Mr. Dimitrov also called at the beginning. " Obviously, the texts are not controversial, I would not say that there was a heated discussion. I'm canceling this vote and giving Mr. Dimitrov the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u184	Colleagues, these are expert questions. There is a criminal procedure, as you know, against Bulgaria. Governments change, but the interests of Bulgaria remain. So I turn to all of you.. there was not a single controversial issue of the Economic Commission on this subject. We worked together. Even in our committee, we are not divided into ruling and opposition, we are doing everything possible to expertly resolve matters. So I'm asking you to finish this topic. Take part in the vote. Indeed, there is no point in politicisation, in separation, let us show that there are topics on which we place Bulgaria's interest above everything else. So please, colleagues from all parliamentary groups, take part! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u185	Thank you. And Tsoncho Ganev wanted the word too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u186	Mr. President, I fully understand what is happening at the moment, but I would like to call on the coalition that is taking decisions in this country and forging the laws, purely organisationally being much more responsible, not to sit in cafes, in the chair or where they have judged their colleagues, but to be in the Chamber. Because it's not just a matter of voting. Our group sits 90% of the cases here no matter what and how it is discussed. [[Heckling]] The point is, however, that the majority doesn't think it's normal to be present at any bill's commentary and it's gone, it's just gone! It is also disrespectful then to say wait now, let the opposition make us the majority, and we will sit in the cafeteria. It's disrespectful to you! It's disrespectful to all the people who are outside this building. Because you are inside, but you do not sit in the hall and listen to what is said and commented. I understand that you are bored, but it is not normal to rely on the President of the National Assembly to ask the opposition to give a quorum and you to sit in the cafes. It's just not normal. [[Heckling]] And don't tell me to sit down and come to the gym instead of sitting at the cafes!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u187	Thank you, Mr. Ganev, we understand. Thank you. My fellow Members, I am putting it to the vote again because a lot of people have come in in the meantime... Come in for a procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u188	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Indeed, fellow Members, when they say that providing the quorum is the duty of the majority in parliament. I would just like to remind you that for the first time in the history of parliamentaryism in the last 30 years, laws with over 121 votes have been passed. Just so we're clear, if anyone's forgotten it. But I'm worried about something else. The colleagues from GERB in more than two months say how important it is to look at the project for a decision to support municipalities, kindergartens, social institutions and so on. The only way to get to this point, honourable Members, is if you are present, if you are in any way involved in the meeting and we are not wasting this time because for 10 minutes now... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] No, no! That's your right! I only remind you, I have no criticism of you. I just remind you that we have already lost 10 minutes and instead of looking at this text, probably time will not be enough again, but then we will not be guilty of any further change and neither will there be such a people and neither will BSP. Just choose whether you want to help the Bulgarian society or if you want to interfere with Bulgarian parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u189	Thank you. And Peter Petrov for a procedure? Okay. Then I suggest we go back to our more basic activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. I would ask you so much more seriously to keep an eye on the implementation of order in this House and on the non-representative of insulting expressions to other Members of the National Assembly, not for anything else, are you not going to be able to appease us? Now if we have an education we have, if we don't have an education we don't have it, it's not your job, but it's still your job, given that we've gathered to do some work, and not so much to insult other fellow MPs sitting next to us, it's nice to keep an eye on the order in this room and avoid similar situations. And if you hear them, possibly notice them, sanction your colleagues, so that we do not simply allow the National Assembly to become an organization that is self-regulating and self-governing in the most direct and everyday sense of this word, Mr President. That is indeed my request to you, purely collegiately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u191	Thank you and I, Mr. Petrov, I agree. In particular, I have not heard anything obscene, but not everything is heard, especially if it is from the back lines. Colleagues, there's one other thing I'd like to tell you. It's nice to take your seats, not stand in the back. Often I say it, often times you do it and write it hard to realize, obviously I have to say it from this tribune. Mr. Bachiysky, you too! [[Laughter]] Perhaps we can now move on to the vote and see what surprise it brings us. I repeat: we vote from § 31 to § 38 according to the numbering of the Commission: § 31, 32 and 33 are by text of an importer; § 34, 35 and 36 are in the version of the Commission; § 37 is by text of an importer and § 38 is new in the version proposed by the Commission. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u193	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u195	They voted 139 MPs in the House plus 2 online " 141": 130 plus 2 online " 132" against 9, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u196	Thank you. On page 1, page 1, It's 22. "Additional provision'. The Commission does not support the importer's text on the name of the subdivision and proposes to reject it. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 35, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 35. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. Unfinished legal proceedings in cases initiated by 27 May 2022 pursuant to Chapter II, Section IV, Chapter 4 and Chapter 6 shall be completed in the current order. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37, which shall become § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... The Law shall enter into force on 28 May 2022, with the exception of § 2, item 1. 1 and § 35, t. 2 which shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u197	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I am opening the last for this draft discussion, which covers the name of the sub-participation, which is proposed to be dropped, § 35 by the numbering of the importer proposed to be removed, the name of the sub-participation..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... To speak, Emil Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u198	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to highlight three essential points put in this draft of voting proposals. I believe that with the adoption we will make a significant contribution to improving the consumer protection of Bulgarian consumers. Firstly, the prohibition of double standard for the sale of goods. This is a cause, colleagues, to which I personally have dedicated myself for many years and have done my best to accept this in Bulgarian legislation. I would like to inform you that in the autumn of 2016 the Federation of Consumers in Bulgaria, which I have the honour to represent, signed a Memorandum of Cooperation with the State Authority, the Consumer Protection Commission. We have participated in all market research activities in European countries, research on specific products, preparation of texts to resolve the problem at legal level, and now the new texts provide for such dual activities of individuals, distributors and traders will be qualified as unfair commercial practice and will be sanctioned. I'd like to open a clamp. For the first time in the European Union spoke about a double standard in Bulgaria thanks to the extremely active activity of the Commission for Consumer Protection and the Directorate of the Ministry of Economy. I would also like to point out to you the second important one in the project: providing for stricter sanctions for violation of consumer legislation, including with the expansion of the Commission's activities for reconciliation of activities. The unification of the efforts of the control authorities from different countries, colleagues, in carrying out investigations and registration of infringements will undoubtedly increase the effectiveness of the work of the Bulgarian institutions and, in particular, the Commission for Consumer Protection, which, as I have observed it as a representative of a non-governmental organisation for six years, I can quite honestly say that it is indeed a stand-up for the interests of Bulgarian consumers, regardless of their ethnic, religious or party affiliation. Thirdly, improving e-commerce legislation and the digital market as a whole. Of course, the project also gives a solution to other important issues, insofar as it sees the requirements of two directives of the European Commission. So far, I can stop, because really, this law is very important. As I said in the first vote, as strange as it sounds, Bulgarian consumers are much more than living consumers, because unborn children are consumers too. Unfortunately, both those who are leaving this world and they need some consumer services. I appeal to all of you: let us support this bill, which is very, very important for Bulgarian consumers. Because the Bulgarian consumer is unfortunately the poorest in the European Union, but at least until now it has not been protected to the extent necessary by the Bulgarian legislation. With the change of this law, there is already a much greater guarantee that it will be protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u199	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. A line? A line from Halil Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Georgiev, in the form of a line, I will say a few things, and, of course, I fully agree with what you said. These texts are important. The protection of Bulgarian consumers must be our main task, but agree with me that in order to get to the protection of Bulgarian consumers, before that we must finish and protect the Bulgarian producer. We didn't do that with regard to small farmers. We also did not do this in terms of business in terms of compensation for the appreciation of energy carriers. Today, instead of being as we have just heard a call from Mr. Svilenski, and with this call I agree that we should be active in these important texts, they should be accepted, we see that GERB again, for the second time this week, are saving the ruling majority yesterday in the election and release of the military minister, and today in the vote of these important texts. Therefore, I ask for a really more active work, honourable Members, to protect the interest of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u201	Thank you. Is there a second line to Emil Georgiev? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u202	Mr. Letifov, I fully agree with your reply, unfortunately that the interest of the Bulgarian consumer is also not properly protected. This gap between Bulgarian legislation, the Consumer Protection Act and European legislation created prerequisites for the real interest of the Bulgarian consumer not to be protected, but in the end every Bulgarian producer is a kind of user of some services. I think that the harmonisation of the Consumer Protection Act is now creating prerequisites for really bringing together the efforts of everyone to protect consumers. I would like to share something else with you, which will perhaps further have to be corrected in the Consumer Protection Act. I note that at least for now they are formally performing their functions. Because of the emptiness in the law and because of the harmonisation of European legislation, a conciliation committee must in every way protect the interest of the consumer, including with the obligations of manufacturers and traders. So maybe this will be the next step that we will have to correct together with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u203	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. First of all, I will put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation to reject the name of the subsidiary. We will then put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject the text of the importer for § 35, as it is reflected in its systematic place and then we will move on to the We are voting for the Commission's proposal on Economic Policy and Innovation to reject the name of the Please, voting mode. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u204	OJ L
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u205	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u207	They voted 141 MPs in the House plus 2 online. 143 total: 128 plus 2 online............................. for 130..................................................................... The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal to reject the text of the importer for § 35. Please, voting mode. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u208	OJ L
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u209	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u211	Thank you. Vote 148 MPs in the House plus 2 online "150": 131 plus 2 online " 133," no objection, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. We move on to the "Transitional and Final Provisions" and, first of all, I put to the vote the name of the subdivision supported by the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u212	OJ L
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u213	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u215	They voted 146 MPs in the House plus 2 online " 148" total: 130 plus 2 online " 132," against 13, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We move on to paragraphs 39 and 40 by numbering of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, both in the version of the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u216	OJ L
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u217	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u219	Thank you. They voted 142 MPs in the House plus 2 online " 144" total: 128 plus 2 online "130" against 14, no abstentions. The proposal has been adopted, with which the entire bill has been adopted in a second vote. We move on to the next item on the agenda, which is: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL MOVEMENT. Just don't rush out, because there's probably a pass to the gym. Please come in for a procedure. You have the floor, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u220	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! If there is an opportunity to vote on point 5 "Cut off the powers of the Member of the National Assembly "Ventzislav Petkov," to become point 3, and to vote on it because it will not take any time if we do not fall into debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u221	Got it. Generally, Mr. Atanasov, we cannot do this because we are currently in the proposals under art. 47, para. 8 which shall be dealt with in this order also in the order as is the order of the parliamentary groups for the month concerned. That's why I can't afford to renumber like this, even suggest renumbering the program. Let's move on to the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Preschool and School Education Act. There is a First Voting Report by the Leading Commission and the only one in the Committee on Education and Science. Mrs. Anastasova, come in, first of all, perhaps for a procedure or directly for the Report. There will be no procedure. You're welcome to introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Pre-school and School Education Act, No 47-102-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 December 2021. At its regular meeting on 19 January 2022, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Pre-school and School Education Act No 47-102-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 December 2021. The meeting was attended by Academician Nikolay Denkov, Minister of Education and Science, who presented the bill on behalf of the importers. The bill aims to achieve independence and depoliticise the system of pre-school and school education. The proposed bill will ensure political and party neutrality and the respective independence of persons who perform pedagogical functions in the system of pre-school and school education and civil servants in the regional managements of education in the performance of their functional duties. In this way, the ability to exert external influence on them will be limited. Under the Law in the Committee on Education and Science on the grounds of art. 31, para. 2 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly have received opinions from the Union of Employers in the System of People's Education in Bulgaria, the Independent Teachers' Syndicate, the Association of Bulgarian Teachers, the Association of the Public Association of the People's Republic of Bulgaria. In the performance of art. 72, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education and Science, before discussing the Draft Law in substance, carried out an examination and established its compliance with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, with the Decree on its implementation and the Rules of Procedure. At the meeting, a public discussion was held on the Draft Law, which was attended by representatives of the respective employers' and civil associations, as well as by the persons and organisations who submitted written opinions. Tsanislav Nikolov from the Association of the Public Association VEOTE said that with the proposed bill there is an excessive increase of the imposition of an imperative ban, which could be interpreted in a coup and put pedagogical specialists in an inability to express their political positions in this capacity. He pointed out that it is necessary to define and refine the notions of "political" and "ideologically" and "religious" doctrines or the text to drop because of the reason that this is too broad a concept. Deyan Stamatov from the Union of Employers in the National Education System in Bulgaria expressed the opinion that a new case is being put before school directors, related to the lack of precise clarity for political and party neutrality. The question was raised to be given security and clarity for these 120 municipal councillors, who are currently from the guild of the education system, that they will not be politically fired from the positions they occupy. The other question being put is can it be interpreted as political interference in the work of the educational institution visiting the MP or mayor of a city in this institution. Vanina Kirova expressed the position of the Association "National Network for Children" that depolitization of the system will lead to improvement of the quality of education and thus truly proven specialists will be able to develop their leadership skills and present and develop their vision for each institution for whose position they apply for. At the same time, the need for amendments to the Law on pre-school and school education to not be made in pieces was stressed, but in the context of a comprehensive analysis of the needs for changes in this law. Radka Karagyozova from the Bulgarian Association of Private Schools said support for the proposed changes in the bill, which will help the educational system to be overparty, depoliticized and freed from political dependence. At the same time, she stressed that it is very important for lawmakers to refine texts that create risks to freedom of speech, belief and expression. Ivan Kanchev expressed the opinion of the Syndicate of Bulgarian Teachers, who does not support the bill in this form. It is necessary to carefully discuss the same with the social partners at a meeting of the Growing Council for Tripartite Cooperation in the system of pre-school and school education, where to look for opportunities to optimize the proposal. Veselin Beloconski of the Political Party "Vlas People's Republic" said that the educational institution should be depoliticized but outside this institution, the off-duty time, every Bulgarian citizen according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria should be able to carry out political activity. The discussion included the MPs Irena Anastasova, Plamen Nikolov, Mukaddes Nalbant, Krasimir Valchev, Kostadin Kostadinov, Denitsa Sacheva, Kostadin Angelov and Petar Nikolov. The MPs from the parliamentary group have stressed that such a type of legislative change is mandatory. Such rules must be introduced to ensure operationally that the change resulting from the Bill will happen. Members of Parliament's Parliamentary Group Movement for Rights and Freedoms have stated that they support the first two texts, which are principled in terms of politicizing and partying work in schools. The other texts that concern regional governments and directors, pedagogical specialists, cannot be supported because they can lead to limitation of rights. MPs from the parliamentary group GERB-SDS defined the bill as declarative. A concern has been expressed that there are no clear definitions in the Bill, which will open the door to its use for political strife and for arbitrariness. The question was asked why were the heads and employees of the regional departments of education, but not the employees of the Ministry of Education and Science. A recommendation was made to distinguish between party and political activity, as the whole modern or modern history of Bulgaria goes through the imposition of one or another political doctrine. The representative democracy in which we live today is a political doctrine, the geopolitical orientation of Bulgaria is a political doctrine. People's representatives from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria have said that in recent years they have received many signals of severe political impact on directors of institutions in the system of pre-school and school education, as well as on the part of directors on teachers. The proposed changes are necessary and should be complemented by the relevant sanctions in order to achieve their practical applicability. The MPs from the parliamentary group "Renaissance" stressed that neither pressure nor political propaganda is allowed within the framework of Bulgarian education. Attention was paid to refine the texts that explain what party activity is, but not what political activity is. Caution should be exercised when talking about ideology, because in Bulgarian education, as in every educational system, there are ideological disciplines. Minister Academician Nikolay Denkov said that the only motive for submitting this bill is the absence of legal mechanisms for sanctioning established cases of political activity in the educational system. It does not change the existing ban on the imposition of ideological and/or religious doctrines, but complements party activities and political activities. He accepted the need to refine the term "political activity" and its distinction from the term "politics." After a vote of 10 votes held, 1 vote against a vote, and 4 votes abstentions, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Pre-school and School Education Act, No 47-102-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 December 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. I'm opening debates on the submitted bill. For a declaration from the ARCHER, please come in. To speak, Mrs. Belobradova, Mrs. Antonia Dimitrova, Tsveta Galunova. Please come in for a statement, Mrs. Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear compatriots! For miles, there is a war going on, a war between two peoples close to us, a war in which we can take only one position, and that is the position of peacekeepers. The compassionate Bulgarian people welcome our brothers and sisters while fleeing the shootings, and our country can provide humanitarian assistance, as the National Assembly also decided with a declaration last week. It is obvious, however, that there is a war in Bulgaria, a propaganda war, a propaganda war for our minds and our national consciousness. A people who don't know their history is easily lost in foreign values imposed on them as modern ones, forgets their place in history and forgets their greatness. Such a nation is easily manipulated, used and forced to abandon its national interest at the expense of foreign interests. Tomorrow on March 3rd, we will traditionally be on Mount Shipka. As every year, we will walk the way to the top together with the Bulgarian citizens, despite the fact that some of the government flee disgracefully from the responsibility to honor the memory of the heroic victims. On Mount Shipka, regardless of the cold, only the Bulgarian people, a people, who today, like 144 years ago, will be released from the puppet theatre of their masters. The Bulgarian people, who remember that our land is soaked with the blood of Bulgarian and Russian soldiers, fought side by side for the freedom of our country. I would remind you that both French and English soldiers fought on our land, but as part of the Turkish army. Yes, on March 3rd, Bulgaria is liberated from Turkish slavery, which is now conveniently recorded in the textbooks as the Ottoman rule. Yes, on March 3rd we Bulgarians will honor those who fell for the freedom of Bulgaria, we will tell our children about the greatness of our people, that Bulgaria is the oldest country in Europe, that we are descendants of a great nation. We are used to this day museums always working, most of them with open doors and a free entrance. This year, however, a museum director decided to erase history, decided to close the doors of the museum and its affiliates throughout the country. The name of this director is Sonya Penkova, the museum is the National Military History Museum, which tomorrow will not work because it clearly expresses a political position or position of a foreign people, not ours. From this tribune, we in the ARCE call on the Minister of Defence, whose ward is the museum, to order it to be opened immediately. We demand that Mrs. Penkova's resignation be requested immediately and even today. We call on all Bulgarians who will not be able to go up to Shipka Peak tomorrow to go to the main entrance of the museum and express their protest towards the deletion of Bulgarian history, which is entrusted to Mrs Penkova in order to protect her as a historian and not as a propagandator of political or other foreign interests. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. For the procedure Mr. Valchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think it is appropriate that when we look at this bill, the Minister of Education and Science and personally the political leadership of the Ministry, be present in the Chamber and my proposal is to be asked to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u227	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. We'll check that out. Any other procedures? To speak, Mrs. Antonia Dimitrova. You have the floor, Mrs. Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u228	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The lack of political activity in the educational system is our duty and it is up to us to protect the Bulgarian school and children from party influences and addictions. Depolitisation of the system will ensure the termination of political appointments and dismissals. The amendments to the Law on pre-school and school education provide that the appointments of directors and experts from regional managements of education are to be carried out on the basis of their professional and leadership qualities and not on the basis of their party affiliation. Another motive for the submitted bill is the receipt of dozens of complaints for heads of regional managements of education, directors and teachers who use their positions to serve party interests. These signals describe the activities of heads of regional education who send e-mails about how many votes teachers have to provide, or directors who are campaigning directly for pedagogical and non-pedagogical staff to vote for a particular party. Educational institutions cannot become scenes of political struggle. We from "Keep the Change" support the changes in the Law, which guarantee protection from political pressure, umbrella and impact of all pedagogical specialists in the system of preschool and school education. Thank you. [[(Private applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mrs. Galunova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Getting acquainted with this bill impressed me with the text of the reasons for it, which mentions limiting the electoral rights of the Bulgarian teachers and partially paring their ability to run for elected political positions. We also heard that in part of the report that was just read. Teachers have always been part of the color of the nation and historically since the beginning of the Third Bulgarian State teachers have always been part of the avant-garde of Bulgarian political life. I believe that we should not mix the due expertise, professionalism and impartiality in the workplace with all other civil rights arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria for all Bulgarian citizens. In the theory of electoral law, it is assumed that no one can in any way be deprived of electoral rights, whether it is illiterate, because this would be interpreted as discrimination. And I ask: with what eyes will we limit some of the electoral rights of some of the most intelligent and educated people, such as Bulgarian teachers, where is the appropriateness in this action and what do we really want to achieve? We at AGE fully agree that in their workplace teachers should exercise political impartiality, their out-of-work place, however, they should enjoy all the other rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the State, as well as be free to express their political bias, attitudes and participate in the electoral process. If this bill were adopted in this form, it would be contrary to some of the texts of the Election Code, which guarantee universal selective law. Let us not set a precedent by limiting the rights of Bulgarian teachers and not go against established principles of democracy. Therefore, my appeal to you, Members of the National Assembly, is that we consider carefully the reasons for the bill before we vote on it in a positive manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. - What's the line? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u232	For a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u233	Are you for a line, Mr. Simeonov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u235	Second line for you, Mr. Simeonov. Professor Mihailov with a first line. Is there anyone for a third line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u236	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, a fellow Member of the National Assembly, I do not know whether you have listened carefully to the Bill, whether you have been in the Commission and have seen the reasons for the Bill, but nowhere in it is there any restriction on any electoral rights, on any professional community, on any person in the State........................... is simply limited to the possibility of a separate person, to call it simply, to perform in his professional activities an agitation for the benefit of one or another political power, which is detrimental to the Bulgarian educational system and unfortunately, such things have been observed in recent years. That's the goal of the bill. It is quite democratic, quite well oriented towards adolescents, and I do not see why we should get involved here with simply speaking in the room of things that far from correspond to the truth. I very much ask everyone to read the entire bill again carefully, to come into its essence and not to have discussions that are fruitless and will not lead to a real and correct solution. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u237	Thank you and I, Professor Mihailov. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u238	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, my reply is to Mrs. Galunova, who introduced us to the fact that this bill has a limitation of electoral rights. I am maintaining the position of the speaker and I would like to read you a few important things from this bill. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 213 is These are the teachers and other pedagogical workers, as well as the persons holding the positions of the Director and Deputy Director in the performance of their functions, in the performance of their functions, ladies and gentlemen who claim that constitutional rights are being banned here................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I complement this because it is implied by the text itself. Thank you. So please very much, next time talk to the specific when you are trying to analyze such projects. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u239	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Is there a third line? Here you go, Mrs. Galunova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My hole is to the two colleagues who replicated me, and in fact I will read them the motives in the motives that are involved, and I will call on them to do so too. On the other hand, there are numerous cases where officials from regional education departments in the country also engage in political activity and actively participate in events during election campaigns for the various types of elections in the country, both in the process of carrying out campaigning and in their capacity as candidates on behalf of parties and coalitions. How do you interpret these texts, fellow Members, because my interpretation is that it creates prerequisites for those individuals who participate in election campaigns as agitators or as participants as candidates to be somehow sanctioned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. To speak, Mrs. Belobradova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u242	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues, it is clear to everyone that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education proposed by the Ministry of Education is not concerned with limitation of rights. A few people have already come out to say exactly what this bill is about. It is a long-awaited revision of the legal framework to allow limiting the direct political campaign in educational institutions during the performance of the duties of teachers and other employees at the Ministry of Education. It is extremely important that educational institutions remain politically neutral by emphasising the word neutral. It is unacceptable to use a position of office, especially in this area, to exert influence or pressure on the formation of free will. Examples in recent years of using education structures for pressure during elections, as indoctrination of school communities, show that this has become a vicious practice. It is important to ensure the growth of an independent generation that is familiar with the country's history and governance mechanisms, to be aware of facts rather than interpretations that we usually hear during political campaigns. It is particularly important in recent days. It is also important to protect the right of each teacher to form his own will, not under pressure. These needs are indisputable, and we must therefore emphasise that each teacher remains free in his expression, but under an obligation to maintain political and ideological neutrality while performing his duties. To inform, to introduce, to discuss and explain, but not to influence and not to exert political and ideological pressure in the performance of its functions. Now that every citizen has an bias and this is not only a right, but it is also about the implementation of the mechanisms of democracy, it is extremely important. Everyone has to be a citizen with their own position. But precisely because of the importance of forming free will, it is precisely in the field of education that we are obliged to provide training based on scientific and historical facts. We must ensure the objectivity of their interpretation and arrangement in educational non-tratives. We must develop positive attitudes towards truth and facts, towards the scientific method, towards free and critical thinking. And last but not least, especially in the context of the events we are witnessing today, we are obliged to develop the resistance of the Bulgarian society to propaganda and disinformation, which are becoming a highly effective weapon, causing very real damage to freedom, democracy and respect for human rights. And as for one of the problems that has been addressed to the Commission, this is the question raised as to whether it will be considered political interference to the visit of a Member of the National Assembly to school? On March 26, I am officially invited to the Sofia Mathematical School to meet with the students, so I hope this answers your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Dilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable colleagues! Dear Mrs. Belobradova, I am quite convinced of the good intentions of the importers, but I am also so convinced of the bad outcome as wording and as texts in this bill for one simple reason there is no definition of political activity and this is left to the assessment of who? If a teacher uploads his Ukrainian flag to the social media profile today, is that politics or isn't it? If a teacher claims that the ground is flat, for example, or arguing with students who claim to be flat, is this political activity or not? Separately, in the only attempt to formulate a political activity, there is a fun text that prohibits pedagogical workers from campaigning for the benefit of parties, coalitions, initiative committees and so on, registered under the Law on Political Parties. Well, if they're campaigning for OMO, then maybe it's because it's not registered under the Law on Political Parties. I just think that this bill is extremely quick done without any attempt to define the concept of political activity. I agree that it is indisputable whether it places electoral rights on teachers or not, but it is left sufficiently vaguely formulated to be able to tolerate any wording anyway. I am very surprised, by the way, that BSP supports such a bill because if it existed during the time of Dimitar Blagoev, there would now be no BSP. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u245	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Professor Mikhailov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u246	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Belobradova, honourable Members! I had a great desire to address another in this House, but I have to address you and ask you to explain, as a colleague here said, to the speaker or the speaker. Lately, a lot of grammatical mistakes have been made in the stands... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] No, of all people. All of them. I don't know what I've heard here. I don't want to talk about it. But I ask you to explain to Mr. Dilov that I will allow myself to say this because he has already intervened and Blagoev, only to Marks we have not yet reached the bill that it is in the performance of their duties. That defines it well enough. If you can get up and say what is political activity in relation to the flat or round earth and how exactly to define it, you will surely get the Nobel Prize, Mr. Dilov. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Relations from the National Representative Lyuben Dilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u247	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u248	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I apologize for not being present at the beginning of the questioning I come directly from the meeting of the Council of Ministers. What I want to say is that in the Committee on Education and Science, this bill has been discussed very carefully and it has been paid attention to the fact that it addresses an extremely sharp problem that is currently in our education system. Perhaps he has stood in the past, but over the past three years, it is definitely the view that it is full of signals that the development of political and party activities in our education system has become practice, not an exception. There is an explanation as to why this is happening, it turns out that in the Preschool and School Education Act, we do not have any, not only control mechanisms, but we even have a lack of any ban regimes to show that this thing is not admissible. So the bill wasn't done in a hurry. It's done carefully. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the ban on political activity or the requirement for political neutrality exists in other laws, without defining this activity in a relevant way, because it is considered to be implied what is involved, so there is nothing extraordinary about what is proposed. Some legitimate concerns have been raised in terms of the practice of teachers and directors about whether or not their rights will be restricted. The answer from lawyers that the texts so proposed are sufficiently focused, focused on their immediate activities in the educational system. There are no restrictions in party membership. Nowhere do they follow limited directors or teachers to be members of municipal councils or of different representative bodies. So my request is that we don't fantasize about things that aren't in this bill. The final decision of the Committee on Education and Science was that if necessary, some texts will be refined, but this bill is extremely necessary and even a few years late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u249	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Third line, Mr. Plamen Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u250	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dilov, you know what a heuristic potential is, I suppose. Let me try to argue first. I'll explain. For example, just because someone doesn't believe that snorkel is useful doesn't mean someone else won't invent it. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u251	I use snorkels, so... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u252	Exactly. That's exactly what I meant. Now get to the point. In fact, such a bill, such a law, at all such a legal basis, which treats the existence and existence of political campaigning in our country, existed 25 years ago. For one reason or another, it was cancelled. This does not mean that we do not have to correct this mistake. On the other hand, you are an educated man, you know well that political activity has a pretty good argumentation. It is regulated in other legal acts "The Law on Political Parties, for example. So we do not need to repeat in this regulatory act further what political activity is. The only point is that in office time it is not for those who are involved in an educational process in our country to perform political campaigning. This is wrong, unacceptable, out of the ordinary at all. On the other hand, all those who perform political campaigning for one reason or another in overtime in any way, neither constitutional nor any other legal act are limited to doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u253	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Here you go, Mrs. Bellobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think everyone before me said what they had to say about setting up the proposed bill. Only to Mr. Dilov I would like to address that in terms of what it is like to put the flag of Ukraine on the Facebook profile. Unfortunately for me, Facebook is not part of the education system, otherwise I would be most pleased with it, Mr. Dilov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. To make a statement.. Krasimir Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u256	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, we generally support the principle of depoliticisation in educational institutions. The bill was also supported by the members of the Committee on Education and Science in the previous Forty-sixth National Assembly in general. This principle has always been valid in educational institutions. Any political event in schools or pre-elections has been discussed in previous years. You can check this out in the public domain. We accept one of the intentions that you want to highlight this principle. From then on, however, I dare say that the bill gives us nothing new. There is no guarantee that from now on there will be no political interference in the system. The text of the Bill is largely declarative if we look at the provisions that are being proposed and it will not make a particularly positive sense. It makes much more sense for you parties from the ruling majority to tell your party structures not to interfere in the competitions for directors. This is a real depoliticisation, but it depends mostly on the Minister of Education. If the Minister of Education says: I will impose the principle of professionalism and will call even publicly from this tribune all party structures.. stop interfering in the competitions for directors, then I can accept that there is some depolitization. It makes much more sense to propose a bill that will change the rules for selecting directors. One such bill, I think everyone would support it if it really was in the direction of depolitization. It makes much more sense to propose a bill that will change the rules for selecting directors. One such bill I think everyone would support it if it really was in the direction of depolitization. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, you speak of many signals. Even if this bill achieves its propagandistic goal of justifying political dismissals in recent months, unfortunately, local professional communities know the truth. You know who wants to fire a director. You know who writes the signals you're talking about. It's been known to be violent cases of political interference for the past 10 months. Trade with mayors and posts. School land trade. I gave you one of them. The pressure continues on one director only because he does not want to hand over the school lands to the mayor, which is a harsh form of political interference. This same mayor, accordingly, promises support for political forces. Now that's political interference. I hope that you will react and stop such cases. I can also tell you who writes the signals you're talking about. It is interesting, however, why none of the fired officials of regional governments, heads of regional governments in recent months, has been fired on the basis of the provision in the Civil Service Act, which says that civil servants should be politically neutral. Why is there no such case, even though there is a provision? Why do you propose that the provision should cover only regional governments, but not the employees of the Ministry of Education? Why do we despise that in the Ministry of Education they are political saints, and in regional governments they are not? Secondly, there is a great risk that the law will open the door to witch hunting, political repression and arbitrariness. I hope that, between first and second readings, colleagues, if the draft by the ruling majority is adopted, will propose more precise provisions. It is much more correct to talk about party politics on the territory of educational institutions than it is at all about politics. There is also a risk that the term "ideological institutions" will enter into a Coliseum with the educational functions of education. You know that education is knowledge, skill and attitude. The attitude is the educational function. We must create the attitude and attitude of the disciples toward our surrounding world. We live in a world of values, beliefs, fictions. One part of them we have rejected categorically. We're having another debate. Others, however, we have accepted them as commoners. It's where our society is built. If there is no clear definition of what ideological beliefs mean, then things that are currently enshrined in the curriculum, teachers will refrain from teaching them and forming an attitude towards the world around them. Such dominant or generally accepted values in our society are the values of patriotism, national self-consciousness, civil values, values of democracy and the rule of law. Imagine that tomorrow a party decided to identify itself politically by saying that it was about leaving the European Union. Should teachers refrain from teaching European values? Imagine a party saying: we deny, we do not believe that we should condemn dictatorships. There was such a debate about a dictatorship. Should we raise an indifferent attitude towards dictatorships in children and give up the judgmental attitude towards dictatorships? Here is an example of how these vague provisions enter into a coliseum with the educational function. I repeat my reply at the end, honourable Members, if you want to depoliticize the system, signal the political structures first of all not to do political. Because political appointments are a bad thing, but even worse, it is to use the topic of Depolitization to justify political dismissals and appointments and pressure on teachers and directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u257	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Here you are, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm really surprised, Mr. Valchev, is he talking about this bill or something else? [[(Comments from GERB-SDS, applause from]] There are no such ideas in this bill at all. To remind you what this is all about. The imposition of ideological doctrines is prohibited. It doesn't say anywhere that you can't explain what ideological doctrines there are. Secondly, nowhere does it say that adopted productions such as you defined related to civil education, to the political culture of children who are embedded in the curriculums, plans and are part of the general education cannot be taught. That is why I say: there is a very big contradiction between those who were said to be problematic to what the Bill says. The second thing I want to say is, yes, I address from this tribune to all party plants and to all local party authorities. We need to depoliticize this system, which is not such at the moment. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Look, you politicized her, so don't do any lines, because now we have to deal with the problems you've put in. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Thirdly, this bill is not at all contrary to the activity and work currently being carried out in the Ministry of Education and Science with a working group working together with the social partners in regulation, in a new way the requirements for taking up relevant positions, competitions for teachers, directors, heads of regional managements of education. We're not gonna finish this bill. There is another activity, but the other activity will take a few more months because it is a complex of a whole package of amendments to the Preschool and School Education Act. Therefore, they will be submitted separately to you in the National Assembly. So there is no contradiction between this part of your speech and what we are proposing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u259	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Line, please, Mrs. Mukaddes Nalbant.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will make a separate statement, but I take the opportunity to make a replica of the former Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. Last week I stated that my remark to him was not personal, but today the reason for making a reply is partly personal. I wouldn't have done it if you weren't carrying a very serious political charge. The year is 2010 March. After being the director of the Directorate of Coordination and Control of Secondary Education, four years Deputy Minister of Education and returned as director of the Directorate after six months, Mrs. Milena Damyanova and Mrs. Krasimir Valchev, who held the highest position of a public official in the Ministry then called me and proposed, somewhere very far on the periphery, an expert position, so that I would not be left unemployed. The most interesting thing was what the two of them said: "No one disputes, Mrs. Nalbant, your professional qualities. The decision is political. [[Replyes: "Opa!," applause by "Keep On Changing."]] For many years, I've had this wonder inside of me. I wasn't even offended. I offered the two of them a civilized solution. The minister made me an offer, which I made myself, and I wrote the mutual separation order myself, and I prepared it myself and so on. On my birthday, I was given the order. Do you have feelings of conscience, Mr. Krasimir Valchev, that you propose that civil servants in the Ministry of Education and Science should also be covered in this bill? By the way, in my speech I will state why there is no need for this text, but I wanted here and in front of all of you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u261	Time, Mrs. Nalbant!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u262	...and to all Bulgarian citizens to share that the declarative outpourings do not always correspond to reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u263	Thank you. The second line is Georgi Svilensky's.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Valchev, Mrs. Nalbant is basically meaningless of my line a little bit, but I'm still going to ask myself the question. Do you assume that a political impact on competitions, whether for an exemption or for an appointment is possible? Have you met in the last 10, 12, 15 years with such cases for political appointment or political dismissal of civil servants, in this case principals of schools? I do not believe that it is possible that such things are happening in European Bulgaria and that you now want to call. Who should we summon?! [[Noise and lines.]] BSP has never dealt with such things. I wonder if you can guarantee it for GERB. As I understand it, you won't be able to guarantee it, but at least you'd better be an isolated case. Unfortunately, however, you are not an isolated case! Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u265	Thank you. Is there a third line to Krasimir Valchev? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u266	I'm starting backwards. Mr. Svilensky, I assume you're familiar with the Preschool and School Education Act, how does the selection of directors work? Yeah, I've been getting signals. Unfortunately, there have been such signals for the last 10 months. I have not said anywhere in my speech that there have been no such signals for the last 10 years and that there is no such information about political impact on the members of the competition committees. I never said that in my speech! All I said was that the last 10 months have been there. The best way is to really appeal to your members, including MPs, not to go to the Ministry of Education and not to ask for political dismissals because we know who goes and who wants to. These things, as I told you, are famous. The last few months, unfortunately, the most is happening from your party, because you have the most structures of all in the ruling majority. With regard to Mrs. Nalbant. You know very well that we have spoken with you, nor have I made the political decisions.. There is no way as Secretary General, of course, Head of Administration. But you were still Deputy Minister then, you can't say you were politically repressed! You were Deputy Minister! And I'll use the case for a line from Minister Denkov. He misinterpreted that we had not read the Bill, but repeated the words "Instruction of ideological doctrines." This is what I have pointed out, for example, that humanism is also an ideological doctrine, democracy and the rule of law, as well, have an ideological doctrine. Patriotism and national belongings are also a kind of ideological doctrine, and this will enter into colosion. My request is to think about a formulation or at least to tell teachers which ideological doctrines will be able to impose and which will not be able to impose, because if we say that no ideological doctrine will be able to impose, let us at all remove from the Law the educational function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u267	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Mr. Svilensky's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u268	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I didn't understand what Mr. Valchev meant by saying that BSP has the most structures. Yeah, it has the most structures, but what does that have to do with it? I couldn't figure out why you were setting it as an example. Mr. Valchev, since you call dismissals political...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u269	Mr. Svilensky, procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u270	...they were political appointments. There can be no political dismissals if there were no political appointments. Explain it to you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u271	Mr. Svilensky, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u272	...were political appointments so that, when these people were released, you could claim to be their political dismissals.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u273	Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u274	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u275	You're excused, but still the procedure for me, not a line to the defendant. [[National Representative Mukaddes Nalbant wants the floor.]] I'm sorry, Mrs. Nalbant, but Stoil Stoilov is ahead of you for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u276	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I will support this bill, we will continue the Change and will also support the Bill. Why? Because there's really a problem and it's become clear even to me, which I'm recently in politics. I am a MP from Pleven region and often receive signals about the education system. I'm getting reports that a certain number of votes in the elections have been requested from the school's directors. I am receiving signals of bribery for hiring staff in the educational system, as far as I heard several thousand leva for appointment of a school director. I'm getting signals about umbrellas, for example, a director who acts violence against teachers and students, but is protected by the political structure. I'm getting reports of party appointments of directors and teachers throughout the system. How does this work? The director's posts are distributed among the strong parties of the day and then the teachers are distributed according to the convictions of the directors themselves. The director appoints those he considers to be the best. In this sense, I agree that it is appropriate to look at competition procedures and appointment criteria so that this political influence cannot be used. I understand why there is such resistance to this bill. On the one hand, in smaller settlements there is not too much work and this is another problem that we have to work on, and so everyone is trying to arrange somewhere in the school, in the municipality, at work at the police station. The other reason there is resistance is that it is very useful during elections to have one such network of directors, teachers, parents in these schools who know that the political wind is blowing in a certain direction. Mr. Valchev, I absolutely agree with all of us to agree that we will not do this, we will not use the educational system for political intervention. I appeal to stop this game after every change of power another to drive and hang in education. Let us agree that all parties withdraw from the schools and we remain the best directors and teachers to educate our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u277	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Are there any lines to Stoyle Stoilov? I won't. For your speech, Mukaddes Nalbant, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The subject we are debating today is extremely serious. Indeed, there is a serious, huge problem in the educational system in relation to the partying. Of course, aside from the remark that there are more serious problems in the education system itself, I want to open a clamp and say that the problem is very, very old. I'll give you two examples. A long time ago, the head of regional inspectorate at the time, the education and regional coordinator of a particular party, which I will not quote, had given as an address to the regional party headquarters the address of the regional education inspectorate. Another example: I had the opportunity, as chairman of a committee, to conduct the first competitions for civil servants in the Republic of Bulgaria, and 28 heads of the regional education inspectorate. Do you know what happened to those contests? The minister appointed not the first ranking, but in his own interpretation, he chose from the first three rankings. Four of the contests were canceled because the right ones in quotes had not fallen among the first three qualified. Yeah, it's a very serious problem, and it's been a long time. But we, honourable Members, as some of the speakers before me have also said, must be very careful of the points and commas even in the texts on this bill. We are, in principle, strongly opposed to this partisan, and I stress it once again. I'll give you an example. All this has developed over the years to come to the point that in Kardzhali District, and I know that Mr. Valchev can replicate me, but I will give the example of 72 schools, or 73 schools with one spiritual one, 68 schools are with directors, members of GERB. I was asked if we did any special research. No, these are small settlements, and people know who's what, what he's doing and who's being imposed on. Yes, Krasimir Valchev had made a note that the directors of kindergartens were from DPS. I bothered to make a reference, Mr. Valchev, most of the principals of kindergartens are partyless, yes. About the texts that are being proposed. In the first two articles we do not have any serious objections except perhaps that of political activity, because I want to tell you that as a philosophy teacher, in philosophical disciplines I cannot imagine teaching philosophy of law or civic education to students if I do not swim in the terminology of politics? We have to do the lyrics very precisely here. Yes, to impose a ban on party activities, we strongly agree. About the employees at the regional education departments. My fellow Members, for many years, I have been the director of the Directorate for Coordination and Control, i.e. I have organised and carried out inspections throughout the country. Each law is grounds for imposing punishment if it is violated. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u279	Please be quiet, colleagues, really!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u280	The employees at the regional education departments, honourable Members, are civil servants. There are several texts in the Civil Service Act, I read one of them: The State employee in the performance of his office must be politically neutral................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The appointment of civil servants shall be carried out through competition based on professional qualities. And again, art. 18 for political neutrality. And 42nd that the civil servant has the right to join political parties. Here, honourable Members, it is simply not necessary to rewrite this text in the Preschool and School Education Act. Both members concerned with the superiors and the employees are simply unnecessary. As for the directors and pedagogical specialists, I was also worried about what one of the colleagues here mentioned. The texts themselves are not as disturbing in the proposals for amendment and supplement as they are in the motives. I will now turn to the BSP. Honourable colleagues, the director of one of the five largest schools in the country is the district president of BSP. Your motives say they're running an election campaign, doing political activity, I guess, outside school. But do these motives concern such directors? You should give it up either as the district president of BSP or as the school principal! Because the motives show that they can't campaign for election. Therefore, honourable Members, at first reading we will abstain from voting on this Draft Law amending and supplementing the Pre-school and School Education Act and will propose texts until the second vote. And two or three more things to complete my argumentation. Honourable Members, the problem is as in the status of all these listed posts and respectively their rights and obligations, but the problem is mostly their appointment. Yes, and I will agree with Krasimir Valchev, the appointment, but what all the ministers have been doing, which I have personally observed since 2001. In the educational system, the word "competence" has long since been disrespectful. Not to use a term that is very popular in society. With folders in front of me, there were proposals to party plants, to regional party structures from any political power. And until the person is predestined, the contest is not announced or held. And if things depend on the Ministry, I'd say mostly they depend on the Minister's will. Because, Minister, you said during a Commission meeting that there were many signals. Yeah, absolutely right. But in order to have such signals, I also believe that you could carry out an inspection and impose penalties on all persons who have committed this violation. One more thing. From everything that the ruling majority has demonstrated so far and shows, I regret that it has not remained left, right and centre a direction in which I do not express criticism, in us there are very serious suspicions that these texts may be used for a purge, I do not want to use the word "Party." Thank you very much. I hope that doesn't happen. I hope that everyone who is in this building, in this House, will remember the Law on Political Parties, where it is explicitly said that political parties cannot interfere in the management and activity of municipal and state institutions, in this case we are interested in these two things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u281	Thank you, Mrs. Nalbant. I am now recording for a replica Lyuben Dilov and Krasimir Valchev. Colleagues, as the time has come, I would like to make the following proposal: there is a draft decision on the work of the National Assembly in March 2022. Five of the parliamentary groups have been signed. I understand that there is a broad consensus on the subject. In essence, the draft decision plans not to hold a meeting on Friday, but to hold an extraordinary meeting on Tuesday with the exact same agenda, from 9.00 to 14.00 again "Blitzcontrol," regular parliamentary control. I would like to assure you that the members of the Council of Ministers are also free on Tuesday, so moving would not interfere with this part of the work. Even Borislav Sandov, who is not normally on the line for Friday, will be on the line on Tuesday. Therefore, I would like to make a proposal on the basis of art. 47, para. 5 to interrupt the discussion on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Pre-school and School Education, to include the Draft Decision on the National Assembly's Work extraordinary as a item on the agenda, to examine it as soon as it is completed, then to return to the work on this bill. We don't have much time left, but as far as consensus goes, I hope that this will be very quick, too. I ask that we vote on this proposal. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u283	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u285	Thank you. Vote 180 MPs in the House and 2 online.. total 182: for a total of 155, against 21, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: PROJECT DECISION ON THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION IN MONTH MARCH 2022 The draft decision will be read by me, I'll present it to you: Project! DECISION for the work of the National Assembly in March 2022 The National Assembly on the basis of art. Art. 74, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 42, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The National Assembly shall not hold a plenary session on 4 March 2022. 2. The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 8 March 2022, Tuesday, from 9.00 to 14.00 on the following agenda: "1." Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 2. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. That's it, we're moving the same agenda from Friday to Tuesday. I'm opening a discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? There are three people who wish to speak, Mukaddes Nalbant and Hamid Hamid, Mr. Anastasov too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u286	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u287	First procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u288	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I propose that we continue the procedure until the point at issue is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u289	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I put Mr. Svilensky's proposal to the vote and we move on to the speeches. Mr. Tabutov, the procedure is to extend the time until the end of the examination of this draft decision to no plenary session on Friday, but to have on Tuesday. [[Reply from the National Representative Ekaterina Zaharieva.]] There's a reverse opinion, okay. Cancel the vote, there is a reverse opinion from Ekaterina Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u290	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm making a counterproposal. Let the working day end at 2:00 p.m. We have committees. Today is also the day for the blitzcontrol of the ministers in committees. They have also made their schedule, I suppose, and also expect these committees to begin at this hour, not unknown when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. I also thought that, as far as this issue is concerned, there will not be a lot of speeches in general, and relatively with less discussion we will accept it. I understand your arguments completely. I put to the vote Georgi Svilenski's procedural proposal. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u293	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u295	They voted 167 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 169" total: 117 in the Chamber and 2 online " 119" total, against 32, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Now we move on to Mrs. Nalbant's statement. Hamid Hamid, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, as they say, the first Wednesday is the day of the opposition. Then all parliamentary groups in the order of art. 47, para. 8 are making their proposals. They enter the agenda without voting. Before these points pass, Mr. Chairman, you cannot make other points and change the agenda. But with the announcement of your proposal, you said there was a consensus, and you know very well that there is no consensus. What is exceptional in this case that we have to cancel parliamentary control? What do we have to leave for six days without parliament in this situation? What's the reason, colleagues? What is extraordinary about canceling parliamentary control, which is fixed in the Rules of Procedure? Is it because of these questions that Minister Rashkov has to answer on Friday? [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u297	I'll answer it, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u298	It's not funny, guys. Are you trying to hide Minister Rashkov with this offer? You have already hidden him as the last minister to answer, and you know very well that it will not be his turn, but yet you are insuring yourself one more time. You want to hide the man who, during two campaigns, allowed himself to enter the homes of disabled people. One of the cases is an invasion of the home of a woman who is about to have a breast cancer operation. The woman's in bed. Let's go in with guns, machine guns at a sick woman's house, and after she's alerted the D.A. about this thing, send cops to ask her to withdraw the signal! Is that why you're hiding him, Mr. Chairman? Participate in the moving fascism conducted by the methods of...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u299	Mr. Hamid, please, the terminology...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u300	...that Homeland Security thing, the same primos! You are hiding the person who allowed himself to arrest a 16-year-old young man for joining the world to express his support for what is happening in Ukraine, to support the Ukrainians at this difficult time. This boy was held in custody for 21 hours without having access to a phone, a lawyer and calling his parents. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u301	Mr. Hamid, let's get back to the discussion!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u302	Do you have to cover up faces like that?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u303	I'll answer for the cover-up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u304	What are you afraid of, Mr. Chairman, of this control? What's the reason you canceled control? What does that have to do with anything? What I only heard from several representatives is because it was convenient, not working on March 3rd, not working on March 4th from a transport point of view, so that travel can be done. What prevents all MPs from going home and taking part in the control of the regions after they have finished their work, putting flowers where necessary, taking part in the respective events, in the evening? What's the holdup?! Who are we hiding?! Remember that this control is in the first week of March and in addition to regular parliamentary control, the blitzcontrol should be carried out. What are the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers afraid of? Why are you covering for them? We're against it! We have denied such practices to merge holidays, to merge days off. The official holiday is on the 3rd, on the 4th everyone should be at work. You're getting tired too fast, guys. Is that the new change? Is that the change? That's what GERB did! Now go out and say, "And we do as they do. " You're just a beta version, colleagues. Beta version! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u305	Thank you. Mr Hamid, I may have to specify again that nothing is cancelled, but it will be held on the exact same agenda on Tuesday,................................. and regular parliamentary control. It's proposed, the court decides. This is the draft decision. Mrs. Nalbant, do you have a statement? Okay. Mr. Anastasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u306	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I won't take up much of your time, because I still wish we could run the committees and not ruin the blitzcontrol, as Mrs. Zaharieva said. However, there is someone here who owes an answer to whether it is you, Mr President, because you suggested it, whether it is someone from the consensus, should come out and explain why this change is needed. If the answer is because it is more convenient, I am sorry, colleagues, but we cannot be comfortable with something that is not allowed for Bulgarian citizens. They have to be at work on Friday, one by one. Don't expect the DPS to now fall into populism not to rest. We have a time of rest in our Rules, which, by the way, on your proposal, again the consensus in quotes, the rulers have been changed and we have not rested, but worked here with you. Now the question remains, if one hypothesis is that we are running away from parliamentary control because of Rashkov, who announced my colleague, the other hypothesis is that we want to take a nice six-day break. Very nice, by the way, and I have a family, we've had choices all year, some maybe not so much a year, they need attention. Colleagues, realize, however, that we are in a very delicate situation here, there is a military conflict. And in this situation you will deprive the Bulgarian state of parliament for six days. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, come in. The stands are open.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u307	No lines!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u308	Without that, I'm provoking someone to answer me, you're a candidate. Be brave and come out, talk. I need an answer!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u309	No, that's all right, Mr. Anastasov. Finish the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u310	No, no, please don't hesitate, colleagues! Please, Mr. Chairman! But the question is, what are we going to do with this break? We hide the ministers, we hide the government, we run away from the blitzcontrol, which, fortunately, fell right on the National Day, and we don't want there to be a prime minister and deputy prime ministers here, so let's listen to them, because with each of their participation the issues become more than the answers, or anything else. If it's anything else, come on in, guys, come out and tell me. If not, we and all Bulgarian citizens accept the version that you either want to rest or hide Rashkov. Third, there's no time at the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u311	Okay, thanks. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Chenchev, for a line or for a speech?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u312	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Anastasov, let us be clear here you have expressed the opinion of your entire parliamentary group with what you say? Because your colleagues from the parliamentary group, passing by us, were also solidarity with this rest, and I am telling you this because I heard it with my ears. For this reason, I would like to clarify this opinion of your entire parliamentary group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u313	Thanks for the line. Is there a second line? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u314	Mr. Chenchev, please sit down to listen carefully, relax and prepare for the holidays. Mr. Chenchev, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is a single party and we have no factions, wings, wings and all that. And as vice-president of the DPS, I can assure you that whatever you talk about in the hallway with anyone, it is important what decision the DPS will make. Otherwise, if you want to frame someone with intrigue, come on in. Unfortunately, we Bulgarians have a richly developed culture of snitches, I don't want to say since when and where, but if you are going to intrigue, go all the way. Come and say names from this tribune. But intrigue is not part of the political culture of the DPS. I still didn't get the answer to the question what was the third hypothesis? You didn't answer me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u315	Me answering you?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u316	Yeah, you didn't answer me. Yeah, you're part of the consensus, aren't you, Mr. Chenchev? Go out and tell me why the consensus wants the National Assembly not to work and to rest for six days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u317	There's a statement from Peter Petrov. Maybe this word consensus should erase it from the dictionary. [[Noise and lines.]] However, it does not occur even on matters that were expected.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u318	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will try to be brief, as I have two committees today, of two and a half and of four. In fact, my statement refers to a proposal that we also discussed at the Conference of Presidents this morning. I don't want to talk about long weekends, long vacation periods or hiding ministers. I will try to make a constructive proposal, which is in the decision that we will adopt today for Tuesday's meeting, to adopt a text that we will be meeting with extended working hours until the questions are exhausted. My colleagues at the DPS asked me what the emergency was. In my opinion, the extraordinary thing is that the questions and questions to be addressed in the two types of parliamentary control are a total of 88 on accounts since morning. I believe that, until now, in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, we have not dealt with 88 issues in the order of parliamentary control. In the morning, we spoke with the President of Parliament that the three hours that are scheduled for control will only be enough for a few questions, while we have always, as opposition, at least, tried to make sure that parliamentary control covers all the answers to all the questions, as all the MPs in this House deserve answers from the ministers. I believe that this is precisely the extraordinary basis that may require the adoption of such a decision to be met on Tuesday. But my request is to accept such a text that working hours will be extended on Tuesday until the parliamentary control is exhausted in view of the large number of questions it has. So I believe that neither ministers will hide nor there will be any major rest period, as we do not cancel parliamentary control on Friday, but we will simply redirect it on Tuesday. That is why I am also making the relevant proposal, hoping it will be accepted, because I remind you that possibly the irresponsible issues on Tuesday will come together on Friday and we will actually have this conversation again next Friday if they are not asked and, accordingly, do not get all 88 questions answered. So that's my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u319	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. [[National Representative Hamid Hamid wants the floor.]] A line, Mr. Hamid? Okay. Eighty-eight questions an average of about 10 minutes is 880 minutes. That's 10 hours, 280 more minutes, almost 15 hours. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Petrov! There is already another consensus, another majority, a little more. We saw him yesterday. However, with this statement, I understand that you are also joining the consensus, that is, you agree to the meeting on Tuesday, you support the entire great consensus, only that you want all issues to be exhausted. That is fair, of course, but you forgot to say that Minister Rashkov must answer all questions first. But not in the circle of the joke, Mr. Petrov. The parliamentary groups will no longer be able to hold their meetings for the second Tuesday. On Tuesday, a meeting of its parliamentary group and its central operational office shall be held. Whether you do it or not, I'm sure you do it, and GERB, and all parties gather on Tuesday. This Tuesday we were looking at the two small budgets, next Tuesday is the meeting to cover up Minister Rashkov so I will name this meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u321	Well, don't!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u322	Maybe next Tuesday we'll figure something else out. Keep hiding Minister Rashkov. And, Mr. Petrov, at least you don't participate in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u323	There are no other lines. A hole, Mr. Petrov? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u324	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Hamid! First of all, since I am not trying to participate in a coalition majority to hide Minister Rashkov, I do not object to him being heard first, noting that I am not the one setting the agenda of the ministers' hearing. Even I at the Chairman's Council have objected to the Prime Minister's answer first, then the Deputy Prime Ministers and then the ministers, as my questions are usually the last ones. One question to Minister Ivan Ivanov has been standing for one month, and unfortunately, my question to Minister Stefan Yanev will not be answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u325	He'll get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u326	With regard to the inability to hold meetings of the parliamentary groups. Unfortunately for me, our parliamentary group is also holding such a meeting on Tuesday, which may not be held. However, I would like to say that the basis for my proposal is that we as opposition, and you, I see, are asking a lot of questions to the ministers who need an answer. And I have guided myself in making this proposal only from the point of view that it is right for us as opposition to get an answer to these questions and not for the ruling majority to give us one or three hours for parliamentary control. If this is really done, at two o'clock or three will be the end of the meeting and then we will have group meetings. But it is more important for me to get an answer from the executive, which we as MPs are expected to exercise some control over. That's all I had in mind. Yes, I understand that this is indeed interfering with the meetings of the parliamentary groups, and we are also suffering from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u327	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Your question to the Minister of Defence will be answered simply by Dragomir Zakov, not by Stefan Yanev next week. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. An editorial proposal was made by Peter Petrov. Mr. Petrov, we're going to form it this way: Point II at the moment by importer reads as follows: The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 8 March 2022, Tuesday, 9:00 to 14:00 on the following agenda. Your editorial proposal will form it as follows: 14:00 will be deleted and the text will instead be: 2. So if accepted, the text will be: The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 8 March 2022, Tuesday, from 9.00 until the issues of parliamentary control have been exhausted. 2, on the following agenda. Let's move on to the vote. First of all, we vote on the editorial proposal of Peter Petrov, if such a meeting is, of course, scheduled to be until all issues are exhausted. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u328	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u329	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u330	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u331	They voted 172 MPs in the House and 2 online. 174 total: 35 against 89 in the Chamber and 2 online. 91 in total, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the main text by importer. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u333	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u335	They voted 147 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online.. 149 total: 124 in the Chamber and 2 online.. 126 total, against 19, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u336	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u337	Revoting at the request of Kostadin Angelov. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u339	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-02.u341	Vote 151 MPs in the House and 2 online " 153" total: 129 in the House and 2 online. 131 in total, against 19, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. With this and this item on the agenda has been adopted. We're adjourned. The next meeting will take place overtime next Tuesday at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
