ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Please register. We have 133 registered MPs. We have a quorum. I'm opening today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to the project I have drawn up for a weekly Programme for the work of the National Assembly: "1." Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. 2. Draft decision on the conversion of the faculty based in Veliko Tarnovo city of Vasil Levski National Military University and amending the decision of the National Assembly on the transformation of the Higher Military Military Military Military School Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School for Artillery and Air Defence Panayot Volov and the Higher School of Education at Vasil Levski National Military University. Only the vote remains on this point. [[The MPs of GERB-SDS and DPS enter the plenary.]] 3. (LOA) BU-D-SAB (SAB) Airplanes F-16 Block 70 and related maintenance (F-16 Block 70 aircraft and associated support), international contract (LOA) BU-D-AAA (Boe supplies in support of the F-16 (Munitions in support of the F-16), international contract (LOA) BU-P-AAD (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II rockets, related materials and services (Swinder AIM 9X Block) (Swinder AIM Block II Misiles, as requested material and services), international contract (LOA) and international contract (LOA) BU-P-AAD (Sidewinder AIM) (5) 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement signed in Sofia on 6 April 2022 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Sweden on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments, signed in Sofia on 19 April 1994. 5. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Veterinary Activity Act. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Youth Act. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on Statistics of Intra-Community Trade in Goods? sequel to the discussion and vote. 8. Reports on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020 and 2021 The discussion continued. 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. 10. Second vote on the bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act. 11. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Labour Code. 12. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules for the election of the President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly and the election of the President of the National Assembly. 13. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks. 14. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Agricultural Support Act, which is fixed as point 1 for Thursday, 21 July 2022. 15. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 16. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote on the draft I read for a weekly program. They voted 211 MPs: 163, against 36, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. There are several proposals received in the order of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules. The first of these is the MPs Andrei Chorbanov and Ivan Klisurski for inclusion as the first item for Wednesday "Hearing of the Minister of Health in connection with the changed epidemic situation concerning the incidence of COVID-19. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u2	By procedure, may I?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u3	After that. Vote 197 MPs: 122, against 44, abstention 31. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u4	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u5	We're revoting, colleagues. They voted 215 MPs: 116, against 69, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. A request has been made by the MP Desislava Atanasova for inclusion in the weekly Programme of the Draft Decision on the fixing of marginal prices for motor fuels. This proposal is inadmissible insofar as there is no report from the leading Commission to which it has been allocated and the time limits which suggest admission in accordance with art. 47, para. 3 this item should enter the weekly Programme and should therefore not be allowed to vote. The next proposal is from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov to be included in the weekly Programme as point three "The Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2021." Please, voting mode. Vote 217 MPs: 100 against 86, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u6	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u7	We are revoting, colleagues, Alexander Nenkov's proposal. Vote 221 MPs: for 103, against 85, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. The last proposal received was by Ivo Ruschev and a group of MPs from the Parliamentary Group of ARCHIVER for inclusion in the weekly Programme of the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act, and the request is to be included as point three in the weekly Programme. Please, voting mode. Vote 224 MPs: 97 against 55, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Yordanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u8	And I have a way of keeping it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose that the hearing of the Minister of Health be point four for today so that he has time to come to the National Assembly. The front three points are, hopefully, relatively fast.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u10	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Colleagues, are there any other procedural proposals regarding the displacement of points from the weekly Programme? Mr. Arabadjiev, come in. Mr. Dobrev, let's clear the program and then I'll give you the floor in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u11	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'm making a suggestion. 11 of the voting agenda on the Labour Code to shift as point three, as the discussion ended on Friday and four votes remain on the four bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u12	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Are there any other procedures, colleagues, in this regard? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'd like to propose a t. 14 to become t. 2 on Friday so we can meet the time limits of art. 73, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u14	Colleagues? Mr. Abrovski's back position, I presume. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I suggest that we keep the order of item 14 to be item one for Thursday, because this is an extremely important point which, if we do not vote, the possibility of Bulgaria losing 40 million European funding will be the responsibility of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u16	Who all of us?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u17	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Are there any other procedures, colleagues, in relation to the weekly Programme? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u18	Come on! A little more responsible!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u19	We are going to vote as the procedural proposals have been made. First of all, we are voting on Mr. Yordanov's procedural proposal for Minister Serbenova's hearing to be the fourth item of the weekly Programme. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, if this proposal is supported, the item will be the fourth of the weekly Programme. If it doesn't, we're gonna have a point one for today, and we're gonna start with a hearing from the minister. That's what we're voting on right now. Vote 222 MPs: 204 against 4, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Iskren Arabadzhiev. 11, namely, the vote on the four bills concerning the Labour Code, the discussion on which was held last week, to be said. 3 in the weekly program. Vote 219 MPs: 174, against 30, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u20	It's a re-vote. We are revoting, colleagues, Mr. Arabadzhiev's procedural proposal regarding this. 11... The Labour Code. The proposal was t. 11 to become t. 3 of the weekly program. Vote 219 MPs: 133 against 35, abstention 51. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva. 14 of the weekly Programme is fixed for Thursday, be t. 16, second, fixed for Friday. Vote 222 MPs: 52, against 92, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. Is there gonna be a re-election, guys? No. Mr. Dobrev, come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u21	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. In the weekly Programme of the National Assembly you have included one ratification, two ratifications, the Ombudsman again, with which we lost all week last week, and a bunch of other not so important items on the agenda, and in my opinion you did not include the most important point for the Bulgarian society "The draft decision of the National Assembly on the ceiling of fuels of BGN 2.70. Your formal explanation is that the committees have not passed and there are no reports from the committees. However, you, Mr President, know very well that if you wish you could put it to the vote. I am making such a procedural proposal to put it to the vote on your behalf, to include this item on the agenda, and to the National Assembly, to decide whether to examine it or not. Because, Mr. Chairman, most likely this meeting has two more weeks of work to do. In this weekly program, this point is gone. Next week you don't know what other ratifications you're going to include. Once again, I would like to repeat that this point is extremely important for the Bulgarian society because it concerns every single Bulgarian citizen. Even those who do not have cars and don't drive cars are also affected by the high price of fuel, because this high price of fuel enters the final price of each of the products. In fact, one of the reasons Bulgaria has record inflation in the European Union twice the EU average is the high price of fuels, which, as you know our thesis, are unwarrantedly high because Bulgaria buys cheap Russian oil and fuels are sold...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u22	You're making your point, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u23	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. I won't abuse the procedure. Once again, I am proposing that you, on your behalf, the Rules allow you to propose inclusion on the agenda of the Draft Decision on the ceiling of fuel prices and let the plenary decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u24	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. As I said, this proposal under para. 3 is inadmissible and should not be put to the vote. As far as I know, there is a Commission meeting scheduled if it examines it and reports it, next week there will be no obstacle to being considered. There are several messages that I should read to you before we move to point one of the weekly Programme. Messages: On 15 July 2022, in implementation of the National Assembly Decision of 18 December 2020, adopted in connection with the debates on the inquiry of the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on the reform of the road toll policy, an audit report on the audit of compliance carried out in the conclusion and implementation of the public contracts of the Road Infrastructure Agency was received in relation to the design, construction and operation of an electronic charging system for the use of a Republican road network for the period from the beginning of the design of the system until the end of 2020. The report is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses, to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. On 15 July 2022, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 7 of 14 July 2022 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 9 of 2022. By its judgment, the Constitutional Court declared the provisions of § 44 to be unconstitutional. The second sentence of Paragraph 45, para. 3 sentence 2 and para. 6 sentence 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through and the residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of allied forces and means. In accordance with the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation, a plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and exercises in the country and abroad in 2022 and a plan for bilateral military cooperation between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania for 2022 and a Plan for bilateral military cooperation between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Greece for 2022 will be carried out a joint pilot workout The training is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to carrying out activities to provide military actions led by others to (another country or organisation) armed forces. The notification was received on 15 July 2022, with entry No 47 203-09-74, and was made available to the Defence Commission. The National Statistical Institute has received information about: - Industrial production indices in May 2022; - indexes of construction production in May 2022; - indexes of turnover in the section "Retail trade', excluding trade in cars and motorcycles' in May 2022; - Inflation and consumer price indices for June 2022 Colleagues, we're going to point one of the weekly program...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u25	Affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u26	For a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group, Mrs. Desislava Atanasova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u27	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Obviously, the National Assembly for another week is moving beyond the agenda of the Bulgarian society and just moments ago my colleague Dobrev is projecting this and this fact. This week, honourable Members, under the leadership of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, negotiations are under way to implement a mandate for forming a government. Although we have fundamental, conceptual contradictions and differences in our vision of value orientation and geopolitical partnerships of Bulgaria, we have always respected the Bulgarian Socialist Party as a systemic factor and party in Bulgarian politics. If the mandate is implemented, the Bulgarian Socialist Party will be fully and autonomously responsible for the future actions of a government, including its legislative programme, as well as its personal appointments. This means responsibility for the state of the country and its development in the coming months. We as the largest opposition group in the National Assembly do not care where the country will be led by a possible new government under the leadership of the BSP. We will therefore expect the answers to two questions, which we believe are fundamental to both us as opposition and society as a whole. The first very important and strategic question: what are they, honourable Members, the 22nd Laws, which very urgently need to be adopted by the National Assembly to trigger the Recovery and Sustainability Plan? Who are they? We at GERB have worked on the Recovery Plan. We've read the Recovery Plan, we know it in detail. We know what it says, and we know what the government of Kiril Petkov promised the European Commission to receive funds for the implementation of the projects. However, we want you to present in writing in the National Assembly and the Bulgarian people the following information: what are the names of the 22 laws to be adopted by the National Assembly to be amended or supplemented; what is expected to be voted as new regulations in each of the 22 laws; at what stage is the work on each of these 22 laws and who is responsible for the drafting of the bills; in what order will the bills be imported; when is the second vote of each of them expected to be completed separately; what is the dependence between the vote at second reading of each of the 22 laws and the funds you expect to receive from the European Commission? I ask that the reference be drawn up as quickly as possible, because this is also important for you as a mandate carrier, and at the end of the day, the mask behind which everyone is hiding that without the government without this government, Bulgaria is lost. We want you, colleagues, to prepare this reference not so much for us as for yourselves, because, when you draw it, you will see that under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan the government of Kiril Petkov has staked not only 22, but much more mines. You will see that Petkov's government did not just come up with a bad plan, but it itself made this plan unfulfilled. You will see that the government of Petkov does not want this money to enter the Bulgarian economy because, if it wanted, it would not bind them to the fulfilment of inexecutable conditions, such as the condition that the Bulgarian National Assembly will promise that it will adopt laws per kilogram, which has simply not been read and which have not yet been written. This, fellow Members of the BSP, you know that it is abuse over the legal order and the legislative process. If you draw up the report and present it to us, you will see that the government of Petkov had a very clear intention that the funds under the Plan would not be received, so that the Bulgarian citizens would be harmed and that Bulgaria would be doomed to suffer losses, to be doomed to poverty. Please do the reference to know what the Bulgarian economy will count on and how much its viability will be. You should also do it for one more reason, because you are also responsible for the Recovery and Sustainability Plan at the moment. In our opinion, it would be most honest to tell the truth to the Bulgarian people, to tell it to yourself, so that you would be aware, too, if you want to shoulder this responsibility, the responsibility to disarm with your bare hands the mines that the government Petkov and his company placed in the economy of Bulgaria, including these 22 laws, if they are adopted or not accepted, if they are written or not written at all, the responsibility will be yours again. The second question is Boyko Rashkov, head of KKCONPI. Dear colleagues from BSP, you very well know the meaning of this ultimatative request by your coalition partner PP, and it request that Boyko Rashkov be appointed immediately before the discussion about the future government is even held. You know that Boyko Rashkov exercised terror on the voters in the previous two electoral campaigns. Boyko Rashkov made illegal arrests to the leader of the largest opposition party, the former finance minister, the head of GERB press centre. These arrests have been declared illegal three times. Boyko Rashkov became a symbol of the militia arbitrariness and the anti-democratic terror that Kiril, Asen and a company are trying to establish in Bulgaria in the 21st century. You know very well, colleagues of BSP, what it means to ask Cyril and Asen to appoint Boyko Rashkov as their personal bat and their great inquisitor. However, we want you to know that if you succumb to this political racketeering and if, in order to keep your positions in several ministries for a few months, you agree to this appointment, you will declare a direct war not only on us. The only purpose of Boyko Rashkov's appointment is in our opinion to continue the systematic attempt to eradicate the political system and the opposition there is no other explanation. Once again, if you do, you will declare war not only on the largest opposition party, but at the same time you will declare war on the justice system, on civil society and on civil peace. You understand what brutal racketeering and extortion you are subjected to, but we do not understand what, at what cost you would succumb, what they promise you and whatever they promise you will deceive you. At the moment your hands are being twisted to appoint Boyko Rashkov as head of KKCONPI, after which you will probably be left with your finger in your mouth and there will still be no government and your short joy will be to be a mandate carrier and dictate the game. Because, honourable Members, their goal is not to participate in a government and be responsible for the mines they have bet, their goal is to master the power structures, establish terror on voters and win again a professional victory in elections. And if that happens, the terror will be widespread, including against you, because you're in their way, too, you know! They don't want to share power with you, they want it all for themselves. We from GERB cannot assume that the leadership of this old respected system BSP will be so shortsighted and so blinded by spite and thirst for a rematch that will fulfill the wishes that will lead to the eradication of the political system in Bulgaria. We inform you that GERB will endure. We inform you that we will use all legal means to counter terror and stop the legal and institutional impasse in which the country will be thrown. However, we do not know if you will endure this abuse, whether your constituents can endure the humiliation you are subjected to by a handful of adventurers. You've got two roads ahead of you, colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u28	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u29	...or obey the racketeering, or go to an election. If you obey, you must do so with a clear awareness of the responsibility for what you are doing, which will happen from now on with Bulgaria. In general, you can choose between two roads or two slogans: With blood we have taken it, with blood we will give it! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Svilenski, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I have been a Member of the National Assembly for eight or nine years, and in plenary I have heard all kinds of declarations, but an ultimatum declaration from one parliamentary group to another parliamentary group -- what time, what list, with what information, with which items to be presented, one parliamentary group of the other parliamentary group -- this, believe me, has not happened in this Parliament. There have been demands for ministers, for deputy ministers, for agencies, but GERB to put a condition... Just a date and an hour you didn't tell us when to introduce you. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Colleagues, once again I will say: you have forgotten yourself, you have forgotten yourself! Only a week ago the term was in your hands. Why did you bring him back...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u32	Mr. Svilensky, the procedure is for me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u33	...when you want to make government?! [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] At least that's the procedure to answer the bullshit you said. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u34	Mr. Svilensky, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u35	Because, Mrs. Atanasova, BSP knows very well what it offers when it says, "Boyko Rashkov," the head of KPCONPI. But you know very well what the head of KKCONPI means, and that's why it was this pointless declaration you made out of this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u36	Mr. Svilensky, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u37	The mines that Kiril Petkov left and his government: free kindergartens... [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u38	Mr. Svilensky, I take your word for it. [[The President turns off the microphones. The MP continues to speak with microphones off. Applause by GERB-SDS.]] Please step off the stage, Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u39	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u40	Mr. Karadaye, we are listening to you in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! You and the parliamentary group are continuing the Change with fairy tales. You are trying to impose the lie as a norm, as something normal here in this Chamber, the oath of advocacy as patriotism, the violation of the Constitution and the laws of the country as heroism, by the way they have also become the emblem of your parliamentary group, where you continue to change...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u42	What's the procedure, Mr. Karadaye?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u43	...but... Mr. Chairman, I turn to you: exposing the insolent and vile lies that come from this tribune, you are trying to punish them and reprimand them and turn them into something bad. As of last week, I asked you to get acquainted with both the transcripts and the video footage from the day you looked at the point relating to the amendments to the Judicial Law and to justify the punishment imposed on Mr Hamid. This morning, as I understand it, the Conference of Presidents has examined this subject, and as far as I understand it, Mr Hamid's punishment has been revoked and it would be good to report it here in this Chamber and the Members of the National Assembly to find out that it is not up to this tribune to lie. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u44	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Colleagues, indeed, at the Conference of Presidents were discussed the case of the punishment imposed by me last week on Mr Hamid and I concluded that some of the parliamentary groups in this National Assembly tolerate a language of hatred, the use of insulting qualifications of the kind of a lower liar. I cannot agree with this, so let each individual decide for himself what is moral and what is right to pronounce as expressions, attitude, address to his fellow MPs in the forty-seventh National Assembly. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] I've already reported it, Mr. Karadayi. We move on to item one of the agenda, namely: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. REPRESENTATION BY THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE GEORGI GOVZAYKOV. An application from Mr. Gazdeykov was received in the National Assembly on 14 July 2022 with the following text: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. I wish that my mandate as MP be terminated by a decision of the National Assembly with effect from 15 July 2022 With regard to the application from Mr. Gkozdeykov, there is a draft decision which I will read to you: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends Georgi Yordanov Gozdeykov's authority as a MP from the Twenty-First Election Region of Slivenski. Dear colleagues, I am opening a discussion on this draft decision. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Gkozdeykov! I feel obliged to take the floor at this point, as far as there was some background, and there was some sort of overlap, I wouldn't say, conflict, just a exchange of lines between me and Mr. Gazdeykov. I would like to assure both the Chamber and everyone who follows the development that all my remarks have not been personally addressed to Mr. Gkozdeykov, and whether he is here in this Chamber or in the Directorate General of Transport, from where he comes, anyway, problems in aviation exist are becoming more serious, deepening. They require some solution that is late and which is not coming, and that is actually the real problem. I have questions for Minister Subev, who has not come to answer these questions for three or four weeks. As the industry knows, Mr. Gkozdeykov today with a decision of the Council of Ministers, shortly after we release him here, will take over the creation of the HSC. This is a new service that will be established in Bulgaria, and at some point every Bulgarian citizen will rely on timely medical care at every point of the country. This is an extremely serious and extremely responsible task, which stands before Bulgaria at all to create this service, to make it workable and effective. The truth is that I, and as a representative of the opposition from an ARRANGEMENT party, and as a pilot, would not trust in the decision that the Council of Ministers will take at twelve to five, in its last days and hours it is yet to structure this office, which is yet to develop, will grow over the years and will make sure that every Bulgarian citizen receives or does not receive this assistance at a critical time when it needs it. What I can say is that I love aviation, and I hope Mr. Gkozdeykov loves it, too. Aviation needs to be developed appropriately so that it can be of benefit to all Bulgarian citizens. And I really call on everyone, including the Council of Ministers, who will make a decision this afternoon as far as they are able to think about Bulgaria first and foremost and that at some point they may also be among the people who need urgent medical care, which will come by air, to make this help, when necessary, come to every Bulgarian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u46	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The will of every MP, no one should be held by force here. The only thing I would like to say is that I will be following, and our group will be following with great interest the development from here on of Mr. Gkozdeykov and all the things that are happening around him, because this procedure and putting this man at the post that you intend to put him on has been triggered long before that. Zero tolerance for corruption is expressed in interesting ways, sometimes by preparing a procedure for a particular person from before in the office, and when it comes to buying helicopters, we all need to be very careful which company, from where and how and what we will take to make everything right and fair. This is what I wanted to say to you that we will very carefully monitor the development from here on, because preparing a procedure for a particular person's post and passing through the National Assembly for color, how to say, makes one think.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u48	Mr. Yordanov, thank you for your speech. Let us not, however, evaluate the work of Mr. Gozdeykov at the Forty-Seventh National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u49	It wasn't for him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u50	It was the final sentence. Otherwise, we figured out what else you meant. Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. Any other speeches? Nastimir Ananiev and then Mr. Chobanov. Mr. Bikov and you asked for a statement? [[Reply.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wish to wish Georgi Gkozdeykov success because as a member of the Transport Commission I had the opportunity to work with him, I did not know him before. A great person, a professional, who I'm sure will continue what we're continuing to change, we have stated as a line, as behavior and everything else. So I wish him success in his professional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u52	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. - What's the line? I won't. Are you for a line, Mr. Danchev? Here you go. Mr. Nedyalkov, and you for a line or a statement? For a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u53	Mr. Ananiev, I have not followed the work of the Transport Commission in detail, only what concerns aviation. I hope that Mr. Gozdeykov, especially with regard to aviation, further if we have reason to enjoy what he has achieved in aviation, will be not in the direction in which we continue the Change. The change continued the change initiated by GERB, but in a completely different direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u54	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Any other lines? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ananiev? No. Mr. Petar Chobanov, then Mr. Nedyalkov. Here you are, Professor Chobanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, resignation is a personal act, of course, and as such is normal and will be respected, as everyone chooses from- from here on out, all the more so that this Parliament does not have much time left. What has already become clear is that the resignation is dictated by taking the next position in the professional development of Mr. Gkozdeykov. It is interesting that from the Vice-President of the Transport Commission he will become executive director of a transport company. There may be a conflict of interest here, there may not be, the point is that this parallel is interesting. Otherwise, the air emergency project itself has existed for many, many years as an idea and managed to find its way into realization during the service cabinet. Then the main driving face of this project, of course, tried to construct it in a way that really fulfilled its role. He also involved Mr. Gazdeykov, as far as I am aware of the events, in all this activity from a later point of view in this Parliament to be able to happen this project, which is very important and long ago Bulgaria should have its emergency air assistance. We have seen that Mr. Gozdeykov, obviously involved in the project, has decided that he is very suitable to head it, which the future will show whether it really is, but it is good if there is still time in this Parliament, although it would hardly be so, and if the Minister of Transport is willing to appear to some of the countless attempts of the Transport Commission to listen to it, together with the future CEO of the company to tell a little more about this project what their vision is and how the national interest will be protected and it will fulfill its specific purpose. Since, as it is currently signed, it is also impossible to make it any faster, I am not very aware, but perhaps it is structured, the last helicopter will be delivered when the guarantee of the first helicopter has already expired, so it is not known whether and how they will be completed, whether and how this project will work. And I will also keep an eye on what happens to this project in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. Mr. Nedyalkov, come in, you have a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I have known Mr. Gkozdeykov for a relatively short time about six months, but at that time I have convinced myself of his qualities and now, listening to all of you who have said that we urgently need this company to be structured and to start working, I am convinced that this is the right person to do this thing. He's gonna do it the right way, he's gonna do it the right way, and I don't have any doubts about what I'm saying. Many of you have said that they will monitor the process of setting up and earning this company. We will also monitor the process, but we will assist him. I hope you don't sabotage the process by watching it, too, because that's what my observations here have shown in recent months. Thank you very much and I wish you luck, Mr. Gkozdeykov. I'm sure he can handle this thing and he can count on our help to the full. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u58	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Are there any lines, coworkers? Here you are, Mr. Anastasov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u59	Mr. Nedyalkov, I can't help but note that someone is sabotaging you again. A year and a half since you've been in power, you can't do your job on the Recovery Plan, which, by the way, has been getting further and further away. I would like to ask if there is anyone else in this room that we need to work on before the extraordinary elections and which is directly related to the Recovery Plan? Because obviously this is a top priority, Mr. Chairman, since you've put it for point one, let's arrange a place for one person who takes another place of work, by the way, and so let's continue with the Recovery Plan with names on how it should be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u60	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Are there any other lines, colleagues? I won't. A hole, Mr. Nedyalkov? Here you are, you have the opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, just to fix the good taste that's left in you. I'm talking about constructive behavior, not destructive behavior. And I really hope, observing the actions Mr. Gkozdeykov has yet to take, supporting them and helping everyone, because it is both for you and for your loved ones and for your children and relatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u62	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. [[Reply by MP Stanislav Anastasov.]] Mr. Philip Popov is ahead of you, Mr. Anastasov. Mr. Popov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. Please, Mr. President, when, here from this tribune, Members of the National Assembly do not speak on the substance of the subject and it is a vote on the resignation from the Member, it has nothing to do with his future work plans, to adhere to this procedure, the resignation from a Member of the National Assembly. Everything else goes beyond this procedure, which we now have to vote on. Please, Mr. President, take the floor when the MP is pouring in a completely different direction here from this tribune in the speech. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u64	Thank you, Mr. Popov. You're absolutely right. Mr. Anastasov, is your procedure in this direction?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u65	Yes, it's that way, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u66	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u67	Thank you. We are really debating the issue of resignation of the MP, but because our colleagues in the PP have opened the topic of the Recovery Plan, it is clearly related in some way, I will ask you, as GERB asked, to provide a list of bills that are necessary for the Plan, to draw up a list of people that are important for the Plan and are clearly agreed in some way as horizontal terms intututu personae. To know who they are, to be able to do this work first, then laws and so move on to the Recovery Plan. Apparently, things are connected, that's what I found out from the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u68	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. I suggest we open the Rules, introduce such a procedure in the manner of conduct. Any other speeches? Mr. Bikov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At least I don't know Mr. Gkozdeykov, and here I was surprised to follow this debate. I didn't know about those intentions. You know, we voted here last week for Mrs. Victoria Vasileva's resignation. She went out on the stand, somehow tried to explain what her actions were dictated by. And if Mr. Gkozdeykov is in the room, I don't think he can stop himself from coming out and saying what his motives are. After some debate is started that he will be appointed to a rather technological and technocratic position, and he is a political figure because in Parliament we are all political figures. We're people who do politics. To what extent the head of a technological and technocratic project, this decision I do not know who took it, to be headed by a political figure and in some way to engage the political will perhaps of this government, which, on top of everything else, is in resignation, I think there is a need for an explanation and it is connected. It is not true that this is not part of the debate, because obviously there is some motivation for submitting this resignation, which at this stage is extremely vague. Extremely vague because we are going out here, we comment on Mr. Gkozdeykov what he wanted to do.. Some praise him, others wish him success, others will watch him. So it's perfectly normal for him to say his word if he decides. This is, of course, not necessarily, but it is appropriate when it comes to speculation. As far as I heard, there were other speculations before that, some sharp lines exchanged colleagues from rebirth with him. Nothing is scary, I repeat, even more so, that a politician, such as Mr. Gkozdeykov, is the most normal thing to come out of the stands and say why he resigns as a MP. Maybe he's retiring from the political life of the country, which is, I think, a serious event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u70	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. For a line, Mr. Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Bikov! I want to quite seriously join your call Mr. Gkozdeykov to come out here and motivate his desire for resignation a little more deeply. In fact, it turns out that Mr. Gkozdeykov is very important for the transport sector, which does not appear from his profile on the website of the National Assembly, given what legislative initiative he has had so far in the sector. But the fact that from where he was making decisions on the subject of transport goes to control the decisions that may have been made suggests and confirms the doubts of the negotiators about the possible existence of a conflict of interest. Because not all corruption is a conflict of interest, but any conflict of interest is corruption, please, I invite Mr. Gkozdeykov to come out and disprove and declare that he will not do such things in his next career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u72	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Are there any other lines, colleagues? For the back, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u73	Mr. Nestorov, I do not know, as far as I understand, it became clear, they even wished him good luck in his new career. Work's pretty straightforward. The question is purely a little because of parliamentaryism, to come out and say Mr. Gkozdeykov two words. At the very least, let's hear what's called. Otherwise, we found out that there are incredible qualities in the Transport Commission. He may have voted there twice at once, but that's what the committees do. If you don't have a legislative initiative, you've obviously supported it. And there are people who support it, so we're 240 people here. Otherwise we'd be 30 maybe 40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u74	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Tsoncho Ganev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u75	Mr. President, I believe that it is quite reasonable that when someone decides to leave the National Assembly, the first item on the agenda, whenever it is, to be placed, to be discussed, voted, and the person who has decided to leave, we do not hold anyone here by force, and it is a very natural moment. However, this concludes the objectivity of the placing of the agenda with Mr. Gkozdeykov. Because in this Parliament there were other cases in which this rule was followed, this was with Mrs. Vasileva the first point, discussed, adopted, then continued the work in plenary. However, this is not the way things were with Mrs. Elena Guncheva, who had submitted her application to leave the National Assembly, and the management of the National Assembly decided that this item would not be the first. Full precedent.9 point. Of course, it did not come to the vote on her release, as a result of which very strangely she received a million reasons and decided to withdraw thanks to these reasons her resignation. These one million reasons were evidently sufficient for it to continue to date as a member of parliament. But I will end up with a million reasons for Elena Guncheva, for her own reason why they are and what they are. The other thing is more important right now, what we are discussing is Mr. Gkozdeykov. It is an interesting fact that a few weeks ago we recovered data in which Mr. Gkozdeykov applied for a position in which the state-owned position, while he was a member of parliament, won the contest in question, the other four who were not called, were not appointed. At one point he decided that this office, which he had won while he was a MP, was not enough for his capacity. It's probably just so that I don't doubt his education or professional experience in any way. But it's what happens from here on out. It is a public secret that Mr. Gkozdeykov is taking on an extremely important portfolio for which he will be responsible. And this is in the last days of this parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u76	Mr. Ganev, it is not clear at all what Mr. Gkozdeykov is doing. Let us not continue to make suggestions and discuss a topic that is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u77	When we get to the point that an MP knows in advance where he will go and go as soon as he comes out of this room, we come to certain conclusions and there is no need to make suggestions to add one plus one and decide that it is two. This is the reason why the agony continues, to gather, to stimulate additional MPs, to have one or two million reasons to support the future cabinet of BSP [[BSP comments for Bulgaria]] So that they can continue these appointments, push through certain things, and this whole thing...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u78	Mr. Ganev and this is not the subject of the current debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u79	...to reach this point so far that this is the first priority point. Yes, it is important, let's vote, let's release him, Mr. Gkozdeykov, and take over the important government portfolio, as he will no longer rule the coalition that was until now. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u80	Does he have any lines? Here you are, Mr. Petrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ganev, I don't agree with you very much. When we talk about the Work Plan, the recovery period, we need to know that the items on this Parliament's agenda are always different and they are always going in the same direction. This one direction is set by the ruling coalition, respectively, by the ruling party, which must be released at the last moment before disbanding the National Assembly, namely people who are qualified to work another job in the executive power, to be released as MPs. Of course, this isn't right. And of course, the next government needs to suspend this man's appointment as soon as possible. Of course, life and health, and this will happen to correct this mistake, which will shortly be taken...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u82	Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u83	But dear Mr. Ganev, please explain here to all the MPs, so should we proceed to the Bulgarian Parliament and so should we define the items on the agenda of the plenary, so that when it exports to the ruling coalition some points are first when it does not export to it, and as you said, when there are multiple reasons, and yet we approach those points of the agenda, to those resignation votes, whether these points should be exported back on the agenda, so that it will never come to a vote, because perhaps the information that reaches to the MPs is not the one that reaches to those who determine the agenda of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u84	Are you here for a line, mate? Mr. Dimitrov or Mr. Danchev? Because Mr. Dimitrov asked too. Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u85	Mr. Ganev, you said that you do not doubt the professional competence of Mr. Gkozdeykov when he took up the position of inspector at DG GWA, but this is something that the whole industry knows about and the whole industry laughs about this appointment, which was made many years ago and which was done by GERB. The truth is that the staggering career starts from GERB, continues through the official governments of Yanev and gains its rise in the so-called quadruple coalition of So here we see a great incompetence that started at one point, and this is something that the whole industry knows and laughs about.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u86	Mr. Drenchev, after all, what was Mr. Gkozdeykov's life path before the National Assembly was not the topic of today's debate. For the third line, Mr. Baltov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen and ladies of the House! I have a huge puzzle that I found out yesterday that the public order was launched to buy the new helicopters. [[(Replyes: What does this have to do with this point?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] We understand that the Agency...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u88	Mr. Baltov, that's not the subject, and that's not the subject for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u89	The agency that will be made now understands that there will yet be a chairman. Don't you think one should be before the other?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u90	What is this nonsense?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u91	Is that bullshit?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u92	Mr. Baltov, thank you for your speech. Mr. Ananiev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u93	It's bullshit when the public procurement predates the selection of HEMS. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u94	Mr. Ganev, for the back. Colleagues, this discussion is beginning to take on some kind of twist that is very far from the subject of the point itself. Here you go, Mr. Ganev. Everyone starts talking about whatever they want.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u95	Mr. Baltov, I've always said that from this tribune there's nothing new in this parliament. "We continue the Change" is a continuation of GERB and is GERB two. Nothing new, people are being assigned to schemes that are yet to develop, and we will have public procurements that will win and take account of some money somewhere. I don't know what to say to Mr. Drenchev because I'm not familiar with Mr. Gkozdeykov's professional path. As far as I know, after graduating from high school, he was immediately assigned to a post that took five years of internship, but that's not...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u96	Mr. Ganev, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u97	...isn't the topic of conversation. Regarding Mr. Petrov. Mr. Petrov, nothing new is happening. And I'm just gonna tell you what you're quoting about the kind of things you have as appointments. After all, publications came out in which senior executives in BSP say it is better to manage GERB at the moment than to have extraordinary elections. Why?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u98	Mr. Ganev, I'm taking your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u99	It's because of these appointments.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u100	The theme of this point is the termination of the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. The rules don't say if it's in line, if it's in the back. Each statement must be on the topic on the agenda. Where did you see the formation of a government, a recovery and sustainability plan and so on? Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Anastasov, are you speaking? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u101	How much time do we have?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u102	You've got enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u103	Fifteen minutes?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u104	Let's say yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, we are currently discussing the resignation of a Member of the National Assembly. This is certainly a personal act. We've had cases here before, we've commented. You can't help but respect the will of the people's representative. Moreover, in this spirit, if I am not mistaken, there is also a decision of the Constitutional Court, regardless of the vote, so on this issue we did not intend to have a debate. The debate went in another direction about the person we are releasing, namely with the statement of "We are continuing the Change" because here some doubts arose among my colleagues, which, of course, we expect answers. By the way, Mr. Chairman, speaking of zero tolerance for corruption, make a remark to Mr. Ananiev not to compare it to nonsense, because still zero tolerance for corruption means something. [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Please make a remark to Mr. Ananiev, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u106	I will, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u107	He's trying to take over your functions. However, the second thing we are talking about, fellow Members, is quite serious. For example, I am not aware of this company under whose Patrimonium it will be, for which he has already won a contest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u108	Mr. Anastasov, this is out of the question, and to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u109	We're talking about zero tolerance for corruption here again. Mr. Chairman, this directly affects the work of the National Assembly, please listen to me. Because, if it is under the patrimony of the Minister of Transport, who is under control by the Committee on Transport and Communications in the National Assembly, the question arises here: has the minister not in any way been influenced by the methods of parliamentary control, while at the same time the colleague has appeared in a competition that is directly dependent on the Minister? If I'm wrong, I'm asking someone to come out and disprove me, to tell me where this company is, under whose patrimonium, which minister is, who controls it, how controls it? Because I would like to remind you that there was a case here when, in the last days of GERB's management, there was even a moratorium voted. I must point out, as a matter of fact, that he was pushed by the Constitutional Court by a decision, but the BSP then, which I look to the left, imposed a moratorium.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u110	Mr. Anastasov, and your statement is off the table.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u111	And it's for moral reasons...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u112	I remind you to return to the subject, and it is: termination of the powers of the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u113	Mr. Chairman, please listen to me, because this concerns all the work of the National Assembly and the agenda that you have imposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u114	That's out of the question, Mr. Anastasov. I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u115	Because it will not be the only case in the coming days of a person leaving the Assembly to go somewhere else appointed by the authorities! That's what we're talking about. And is this even moral, is it a change, is it a request for a new model, and is it zero tolerance for corruption, in the last days of government, to provide a salary somewhere else while we all go to elections?! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u116	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. - What's the line? Honest Mitev, Mr. Chobanov. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] You're second, Mr. Chobanov. Sincere Mitev is the first. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please! Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Anastasov, my line is for you. Is there anything lower to attack and insult a man when he leaves, as a escort? I ask you to answer me: is there anything lower and meaner than when a person leaves, attacking him on a personal basis? And then, to your colleague, the young man, said that the work of a Member of the National Assembly was appreciated by the bills he submitted. Of your MPs, how many MPs have submitted bills? Did you know that all your projects were submitted by the same person? Does this mean that all your MPs have zero efficiency in this National Assembly? Answer me. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u118	Mr. Chobanov for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Anastasov, what has not become clear either from your speech, but there is no way to make it clear now, it is very likely, as I said, we respect the act of resignation, it is a personal act, but from now on the real reason for this resignation we have all understood it. You mentioned that it is very likely that a contest was won, very likely not to have won a contest, but it is very likely that the jury of the improvised contest would have been held by the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister of EU funds and the Minister of Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u120	Is there a third line, colleagues? Mr. Nestorov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u121	Mr. Anastasov, please remind Members that when there is a draft decision of the National Assembly, no one can shut us down. We're here to debate these things. Moreover, I would like to remind the honourable colleague back there that when the IHN colleague was free to go to the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, two and a half hours was the debate. So there must be a debate in this room! This is the temple of democracy! Thank you. [[Applause from the DPS. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u122	Mr. Anastasov, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u123	Mr. Nestorov, I cannot disagree with you, even more so, this is a standard imposed by the PP. We're talking about basics here, or we're going to end up like that English saying: "These are my principles. If they don't like you, I have others? [[Laughter]] Mr. Chobanov, your question is very clear. Even on one person, if there is in any way exercised through the methods of parliamentary control influence in this contest, it is sufficient reason to doubt that it is corrupted. But colleagues, at the heart of it, and here I will answer you, Mr. Honest, I forgot the last name, forgive me...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u124	Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u125	I will not prevent you from taking care of Mr. Gkozdeykov, for the boy, as you say, I will not disturb you. And what's low, what's top and what's left, right, I won't comment on it. The point is that it is not morally what you very much love, in the last days of a management people jumping at different posts just because we leave, even more to do competitions, express competitions. We understand that they are a practice not only in three member states made up of the Prime Minister, his deputy, plus one more to make it three. Somewhere else there are three-day competitions that we know are being announced after the application deadline has already expired. And here I see both parts of the room wondering what it's about. It could be about both parts of the room. But that shouldn't happen, that's what we fought against. You came with the request that this would end. What GERB realizes today as a mistake and what they are fighting against, you are at the moment with full force and with such moral right saying: "A was, there is nothing wrong with taking care of the boy." The point is that he is a political person and as a political person obviously a competition will turn him into a political appointment. And I would like to remind you that this is one of the requirements of the OECD, so that we can be admitted there as a member to transparent competitions, that the mandates will not be terminated and that there will be no political interference in any way. Now, I don't know if it's low anymore, but it's basically characteristic of third world countries. Not to mention when it comes to political interference in a trading company, which will operate with European funds - another one of your favorite topics.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u126	Mr. Anastasov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u127	I answer to Mr...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u128	It's too far out of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u129	I'm sorry, yeah. Very far away, but I didn't hear the replicators tell them that they were very far off the subject, and they were right in space outside the subject. Thanks. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u130	Are there any other speeches, colleagues? There are no speeches. I'm calling off the discussion. [[Noise and lines. Replies from GERB-SDS: "There is, how can there not be?"]] Mr. Gazhev, are you speaking? Here you go. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Okay, I'm recording you. Colleagues, in a moment, if I really ask for speeches and if there are no hands up, the discussion will be terminated. Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened to the debate before that I did not have any information, but I became curious and used the anti-corruption search engine Google to find out whether there were any grounds or not in the things that were said until just a moment ago in the room. I have received information about Protocol No 4. This is uploaded to the GVA website about the evaluation of the presented concepts of the candidates for the position of Director of the Directorate at the Directorate of Flight Standards. On 16 December, i.e. within the framework of this National Assembly and within the already elected Government of the Change, admission of candidates is held. The first candidate approved...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u132	Mr. Gazhev, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u133	Just a second, Mr. Chairman, because it's important.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u134	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Gadget. Please, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u135	...is Mr. Georgi Gkozdeykov, who applied on 30 November, i.e. after the elections and after the announcement of the MPs in the 40th National Assembly. Now, there is nothing wrong with MPs seeking employment shortly after they have been elected as MPs, but from here it becomes a little interesting the question of how a member of parliament has already been elected and a member of the National Assembly has already applied and sworn in the National Assembly, applied for a job in a ministry, which has been led by a elected member of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u136	Mr. Gazhev, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u137	And here's the question, I just want to ask: is this the same Mr. Georgi Gkozdeykov, or is it another Georgi Gkozdeykov, let's not make a mistake? [[Laughter]] Otherwise, the man has a right to look for a job wherever he wants in the world...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u138	Mr. Gazhev, I'm taking your word for it, please. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] Are there any other speeches? Mr. Ibryamov. [[Replication by National Representative Georgi Svilenski: "Procedure. "]] For Mr. Svilensky's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Obviously, you will not be able to get the debate into the point, and it is a resignation vote by a fellow MP. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like a 15-minute recess. I hope the Members of the National Assembly remember in the end what our job is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u140	Fifteen minutes rest on behalf of the group of BSP for Bulgaria. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u141	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. The sitting was resumed and the discussion was suspended. As far as Mr. Ibryamov was listed for speaking, I will compromise to him. Mr. Ibryamov, would you like to speak? Here you are, Mr. Nikolov, for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is in the way of conduct because of the fact that you took the floor of my colleague Mr. Hristo Gajev. Mr. Chairman, I cannot understand how you imagine the discussion on this point other than discussing what the people's representative who resigned while he was a MP; what is the reason for his withdrawal; is there a conflict of interest and is there anything scandalous about all this? I don't understand what else we can discuss? How do you push the buttons, the green one, the red one? What else can we discuss? There are open-minded people and narrow-minded people. To hold a parliament meeting is to be a broad-minded person. A man who sees, hears arguments, listens to opposition, keeps some balance. And not a person who literally at every speech from the 20th second starts asking: is that on the subject, isn't it on the subject? The topic was the resignation of a MP. The scandalous thing about this MP is that while he was a MP, he, who voted for a particular government, for certain ministers...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u143	Mr. Nikolov, you're making a point, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u144	...was in a contest. That was what my colleague Mr. Gadget meant. There was no reason to take his word away. My request to you is in the remaining time of this Parliament, however it may be, approach it a little more natural and normal, having these meetings, because the way you do it is really impossible.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u145	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Mr. Ibryamov, for speaking, as recorded before the discussion ended. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u146	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It seems the subject is extremely important. In its own view, when there is a stated wish of a Member of the National Assembly to leave the National Assembly, provided that before that, a few months ago, he swore in the Constitution that he would comply and obey the laws of the country, because that is the will of the voters who sent him to the National Assembly is quite different. Of course, the act may not be commented. The co-worker is willing, and we should vote and release him. But here we stand, ladies and gentlemen, to the very responsibility. Until the responsibility of a Member of the National Assembly, being elected with the votes of the Bulgarian citizens, which he represents in this National Assembly, what is the reason for him to give up? There could be a few of them. Maybe they're private. It could be a family tragedy. But by all accounts, because Mr. Tosko Yordanov went out on this stand and said: "We will monitor his development very carefully, that is to say he made a subtext in the statement that he resigned not of his own accord, but because he was offered some other office, office. We'll see. I'm making a comment. Mr. Nastimir Ananiev went out, of course, thanks for the good work of the colleague. I have nothing against Mr. Gkozdeykov's personal qualities, but it became clear from his speech that he would most likely take up the new position of Director in the new structure HEMS. We'll see. We'll find out. However, when a Member of the National Assembly, without the slightest justification of who is the reason, may not, by entering the National Assembly, take responsibility to the Members of the National Assembly and especially to the public. He has no right to take any other position, not to mention positions in state administration and so on, because it is a run from the responsibility itself to carry out your duties as a Member of the National Assembly. And I get to the point, if a Bulgarian MP, the weight of a mandate is close to 10 "11 thousand voters, taking the new position, you will be responsible for the security of the entire Bulgarian people, for having adequate reactions at those moments that require urgent assistance. Again, it's just a guess. But my request is really to my colleague, if he has dignity, honor, because we are talking about the politicians of the future to come out and justify his motive to leave the National Assembly. But I am pleasantly surprised by his comments on the new agency that will be structured. Yes, perhaps it was appropriate for a colleague to leave the National Assembly much earlier before the public procurement was even announced. We heard from Professor Baltov that a public contract has been announced to purchase six new emergency medical helicopters. It is yet to be structured the new air centre to command these emergency ambulances, to say, to save lives. But here are a few questions.. The colleague Gozdeykov himself commented that the Coordination Centre will be in Sofia. It's good to know if it's built or not? He says he's formed a headquarters that needs to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u147	Mr. Ibryamov, we're getting off the subject at the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u148	Mr. Chairman, I'm based on fellow Members' speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u149	I understand you, which I've told you many times that they're not on the subject. I took the word twice.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u150	The colleague himself says that a new headquarters will be formed, which will form the Civil Aviation Act, but there are certain standards, there are certain emergency protocols. Have they been translated into readiness? There are many questions that require not only urgent but adequate answers. So my request and I took my speech from the stand to make a request to my colleague, nothing personal about his qualities. To really come out to justify his motivation to leave the National Assembly. He's been doing a pretty good job of his own as a MP. He was active in the Transport Commission. However, in order not to remain convinced that he really left the post of MP to go to a warmer post in the state administration, and yet the Bulgarian citizens to remain satisfied with his work as MP my request to him was to come out and justify his reasons for leaving the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. For a line Iskren Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ibryamov, you just spoke of honor and dignity. My question to you is: what honor and what dignity can a person have who accuses another person of something he has proven to have done? I'll say it again. What honor and what dignity can a person have who accuses another person of something he has proved to have done? What am I talking about? There was an accusation that certain people were working hard. Can you explain to the House and to the public at the forty-fourth National Assembly in the Transport Commission who was appointed as a technical assistant? What was he doing and why? I went to my troubles and made a reference and very interesting, very interesting, that two of the people today in this Chamber, who accused of hard work, who were not MPs in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, came out on the stand, and very interestingly, didn't they, and said: here some are working hard. They know exactly who they are. Please explain. Even one of them was assigned at four o'clock. Please explain when a person comes out and accuses someone of something he has proven to have done, what honor and what dignity does this act express? Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u153	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Yordanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ibryamov, my line is for you. In this Chamber we have heard from almost all MPs from all parliamentary groups what a decent man and professional Mr. Gozdeykov is. I don't question that at all. On the other hand, there have been reasonable doubts in this House about non-especially zero tolerance for corruption for what follows from here with this man, with the whole procedure and with what the government is doing in resignation. That's two facts. There's no doubt about one of them. For the other, there are serious higher levels of tolerance for corruption. So my line is to you: would you ask Mr. Gkozdeykov to reconsider his decision, as Parliament needs decent, quality professionals. Let us not strip this parliament, even if it is long enough, let us not strip it of quality professionals, as we all like it. Let him act morally. Do not question my future and everything that is at stake there, because medical helicopters are important, and remain a professional in the National Assembly, which we will accept with great pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u155	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor for the third line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ibryamov, you asked important questions perhaps in the hopes of provoking the colleague who resigned to answer you. He's quiet and I don't know if he'll do it. But let me add as a line to you as well, I suggest that you know, to him and to the people's representation, whether the gentleman finds it to be a symbol of zero tolerance to corruption acting MP from the ruling party to appear at the competition. To then receive a high appreciation of his concept, provided that the competition was held on 16 December and on 3 February at a meeting of the Parliamentary Transport Commission Mr. Gazdeykov himself, who resigned, exercises parliamentary control on this particular topic of medical helicopter insurance, as well as on the establishment of this company, of the Minister of Transport? I am convinced that Mr. Gkozdeykov will remain silent not only until the end of the meeting and the examination of the point, but he will probably forget that he was a representative of the people, and the only thing he will expect is just somewhere to hide in the public administration. But isn't that an ugly and brutal example of how we continue the replacement, gentlemen? The Managing Member of the National Assembly takes part in a competition... [[Replys: "This is a statement. "]] It's not a statement, it's a line to Mr. Ibryamov, he'll answer me. Yeah, expect him to answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is unpleasant when politics are being made on the back of a Member of the National Assembly, but this is what happens when laws are being created for one person or for one person, when a Recovery Plan is being written for the benefit of one person to be placed on the warm state nursery so it comes out. But, Mrs. Atanasova, I have taken the trouble to really get close to the work of my colleague is not very difficult and I see that he was also active in television participations where he has given extensive interviews for HEMS, but to be aware of how much helicopters are worth and how much they need to be purchased, how many will be paid by the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and how much they will be under operational programs is not enough. There are many good specialists in Bulgaria who can visually, long and with the expertise to explain to us what it means to have a working system to coordinate the departure of these planes within four or five minutes to save lives, where the respective centres should be built. If a person applies for a position, he must have a profile, this profile must meet certain parameters and principles. Why? And we say, yes, it's worth it, we'll support it. However, when doubts remain in the Chamber that a person will take a post and make a position for him, this is now unacceptable. That is why we say: let the colleague come out, disprove all those words that we have said. This is what we want, as Mrs. Vassileva did last week. As for Mr. Toshko Yordanov, I support you in what you have said, and we will follow with great interest the development of our colleague is important. In the first line addressed to me, I will answer you, Mr. Mitev, as follows: when we speak of a representative of the people, I turned to him and I did not swear at him. But I will finish: hatred never spreads through knowledge, honourable colleagues, spread out from ignorance. Knowledge makes you tolerant to be a little more tolerant to colleagues who were not at the time MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u159	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. For the procedure Mr. Dimitrov. We're listening, Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the topic became quite excited, we suggest to turn on the cameras and microphones of BNT 1 and BNR. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] Before the vote, we want a name check of the quorum, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u161	Mr. Dimitrov, turn on BNT 1 cameras and BNR microphones?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u162	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u163	For the whole day of the plenary session?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u164	For this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u165	Just for the vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u166	If you don't mind the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u167	Debates terminated, Mr. Dimitrov. Only for the vote on this point you want to turn on the cameras and microphones. Okay. Is there a reverse opinion, colleagues? Mr. Svilensky. [[(Noise and lines:]] An inspection will be carried out before the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u168	My fellow Members, I propose that we do not support such a vote after all. Again, let us be at the level of the National Assembly, of MPs. There is only one vote to be taken on a point for the release of a Member of the National Assembly. What will the Bulgarian viewers see about how we push the buttons or what exactly? [[Noise and lines.]] This is the proposal that only the vote be broadcast. So I suggest that you do not support this proposal and be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u169	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. For procedure, Mrs. Petrova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u170	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My fellow Members, I have the honour of being a member of the Committee on Culture in the National Assembly. I want to share with you... My procedure is about the fact that I understand perfectly well that I cannot take a procedure to end the debate. [[(noise and lines:]] But I would like to share with you that even every tasteless thing should have its limits. All the crown numbers were performed, all the lines were told, mine was literally beyond. Somehow from a simple self-esteem, I'd like to end it. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Please check the quorum by means of the computerised system requested by the Parliamentary Group of ARRANGEMENT. There are 124 MPs registered, we have a quorum. Please present the result in groups on the tray. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Dimitrov regarding the upcoming vote on item 1 of the agenda to include the cameras of BNT and the microphones of BNR. Vote 174 MPs: 49, against 110, abstention 15. That's why the offer isn't accepted. [[Replys: "Prevoting. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u172	It's a re-vote. They voted 178 MPs: 53, against 109, abstentioned 16. That's why the offer isn't accepted. I put to the vote the project I have read in my own hand, which suspends the authority of Mr. Georgi Gkozdeykov. They voted 146 MPs: 111, against 29, abstention 6. That's how the offer is accepted. Is there going to be a re-election? Dear Mr. Gkozdeykov, I wish you good luck in your endeavors from now on! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] For an explanation of negative vote, Dr. Hristov, Lyuben Dilov and Mr. Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I kept my mouth shut because I didn't want to insult my colleague or touch him in any way, because we don't know each other and he'll probably do his job with dignity, but it's been a couple of times about these famous helicopters. For a year now from the past government to today, by the caretaker government.. 147 million under the Recovery and Development Programme for the purchase of seven helicopters and the entire project remains secret. This thing hasn't gone through the Health Commission or the Transport Commission anywhere. I can't figure out which or which group of people are running this project, because at the moment everything is covered in fog and everything smells cruelly corrupt, whatever you say. And if all 22 laws that we're planning to make and that are being talked about right now are in this fog, then I can't figure out what we're going to vote on, because right now I think no one in this room can tell me what they're going to be, what helicopters are planning, where the playgrounds are. What I've been asking for a year now is...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u174	Mr. Hristov, this is not the topic of the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u175	...what expenses will be. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u176	Please, let's go back to the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u177	So I would very much like to know, and Mr. Chairman, if you could tell me, is this how we're going to proceed with the next 22 laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u178	Mr. Hristov, you are entitled by the method of parliamentary control to get answers to these questions. Lyuben Dilov was for the second vote. Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against, you know, not because I have something against Mr. Gkozdeykov's personality, but because the whole debate about Mr. Gkozdeykov has become one of the nails of the Fortyth National Assembly and his program, namely the way we make decisions that have been equally insulting to all the parties in the Chamber, because neither was there any conflict of interest, nor is there any, the suspicion remained. The man may be a bright ray of hope for the Bulgarian helicopter future, but he will leave this room with one bitterness that we have all caused him because of our inability to communicate with each other. Obviously the suspicion of conflict of interest remained, and whether we broadcast it on television or not, this is just another thing that I'm going to continue with the unfortunate analogy that we stuck in the cover of the forty-seventh National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u180	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Mr. Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Gkozdeykov, I am taking this procedure in a negative vote to emphasise with two lines that we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.............................. we do not mind.......................................... On the contrary, we like you, we admire you and wish you good luck! However, the second reason I take this procedure is to call you once again: go out, say, disprove or confirm everything that has been said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u182	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. There is no way that this could happen because the discussion has long since been terminated. Now, fellow Members, we continue with the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF THE DECISION TO TRANSPONSE THE FACTION OF THE FACTION IN THE GRADE OF THE GRAND TERRITORY OF THE NATIONAL Military UNIVERSITY OF THE VAVERSITY OF THE LIVES AND OF THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESPONSE FOR THE TRANSPONSITION OF THE HIGH WAR-GENERAL SCHOOL SCHOOL WAS LEVISH, THE HIGH MILK SCHOOL FOR ARTILERY AND THE PROVERSION OF THE UNIVERSIVE WALK AND THE HIGH WOMEN' SCHOOL. The discussion on this item was held last week, colleagues, respectively, in today's plenary session remains to hold a vote. It was read and... [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, if you'd like to take your seats, you're disturbing the court. A draft decision was presented by the Committee on Education and Science, which was read last week. I'll read it again so there won't be any misunderstandings. Project! DECISION on the conversion of the faculty based in Veliko Tarnovo city of the National Military University of Vasil Levski and amending the decision of the National Assembly on the transformation of the Higher Military Military Military Military School of Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School of Artillery and Air Defence Panayot Volov and the Higher School of Staff of Georgy Benkovski. at the National Military University of Vasil Levski (prom., SG No. 62, 2002; amended, No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education and Art. 16, p. 8 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Transforms the Faculty with headquarters in Veliko Tarnovo of the National Military University of Vasil Levski and Faculty of Security and Defence and Faculty of Logistics and Technology with the Faculty of Veliko Tarnovo. 2. Students and students from the converted faculty continue their studies in the specialties in which they were accepted, in the Faculty of Security and Defense and in the Faculty of Logistics and Technology. 3. In the decision of the National Assembly for the transformation of the Higher Military Military Military Military School Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School for Artillery and Air Defence Panayot Volov. and the Higher School of Military School Georgy Benkovski. at the National Military University Vasil Levski (prom., SG No. 62, 2002; amended, No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No (a) c. 7 words with three faculties in the city. Veliko Tarnovo, gr. Shumen and gr. Dolna Metropolitan is replaced by the Faculty of Security and Defence and Faculty of Logistics and Technology. Veliko Tarnovo, and faculty based in the town of Veliko Tarnovo Loudspeakers; (b) in the Annex to this Decision, 4 t. 4 is repealed. Please, a voting regime for the draft decision I have read. Vote 164 MPs: 163, against none, abstention 1. That's how the offer is accepted. We're done with that point, guys. Moving on to item three of the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDA. Colleagues, and this discussion was held last week, on Friday. The discussion has been terminated and we should proceed to vote on the four projects. There are four bills. They will be voted in accordance with the order of their entry. First, the bill submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs will be put to the vote with a signature No 47-254-01-40, submitted on 15 April 2022 and not supported by the Commission. They voted 193 MPs: 59 against 70, abstention 64. That's why the offer isn't accepted. We are going to vote on the bill submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs with a signature No 47-254-01-47, submitted on 4 May 2022. The opinion is negative. The Commission does not support this bill. Vote 202 MPs: 65 against 110, abstention 27. That's why the offer isn't accepted. We are going to vote on the bill submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs with signature No 47-254-01-58, submitted on 25 May 2022, which is also not supported by the leading Commission. They voted 201 MPs: 77, against 61, abstention 63. That's why the offer isn't accepted. We are going to vote on the fourth Draft Law, tabled by the Council of Ministers, with signature No 47-202-01-30, submitted on 2 June 2022, and which is supported by the leading Commission. Vote 206 MPs: for 179, no objection, abstention 27. That's how the offer is accepted. Mr. Arabadzhiev, are you here for a procedure? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to propose that we reduce the deadline for proposals between first and second readings to three days in view of the fact that there was no serious discussion on the proposals of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u184	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Colleagues, is there a reverse opinion? [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Mr. Svilensky, let's do the vote and... [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Mr. Manol Genov for a declaration by a parliamentary group...................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u185	Dear colleagues, Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! Our country's Tol system is among the most controversial topics in the road and regional policy sector.. both for carriers and for power and for experts and for the public. The time has come for this topic to be interesting for both the Court of Auditors and the Agency for State Financial Control and for the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office. We must be optimistic and believe that the day is near when the system in Bulgaria will become the subject of work for the Bulgarian administration of justice. I will now quote two lines on the subject that have gained popularity in these years. Tol is a money printing company. Make some money, why are we investing this? We can't just mess with the revenue agency's money. Yes, you recognize the words of the former Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, spoken by the SUV on June 27, 2019, while riding on the building highway of Europe. At the time, a former regional minister hailed him from the back seat. The cheapest toll system in Europe we have is another insight of the former prime minister, missed during his hearing in parliament in February 2020. The same song was singing a minister of regional development long afterwards, whether she believed it or not. Yes, he does, of course. Then, at the initiative of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria "The forty-fourth Parliament in December 2020 addressed the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria with an insistence to check public procurement for the construction of the so-called Tol system. The Court of Auditors' report on this request is already a fact and is on the attention of the National Assembly. Four governments and four parliaments have been on the move since the issue of this inspection to this day. Nineteen months after our request, after all this time supposedly normal functioning of the toll system, the time has come for truths. Truths for which, in their vast part, the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and experts, analysts, industry, transport organizations have long alarmed. Therefore, for thousands of Bulgarians, the news from the Court of Auditors that the Road Infrastructure Agency has illegally spent 118 million. lv. For maintaining the toll system, it's not good. It's been known for a long time. Among the violations described is the fact that the Road Agency has hardly chosen by chance the procedure The Court of Auditors has found that the system has been designed and created as open source software and that the source code and technical documentation have been transmitted to the API. And it is for this reason that it is absurd to assume that the company Kapsh Traffic Solutions is without competition as a contractor of activities for monitoring and maintenance of the toll system. Therefore, the audit assumes that the choice of the procurement procedure for the Tol system is unlawful. The consequences of this are illegally spent state millions, many millions. The 118 million in question were for activities of pro-active monitoring, operational maintenance and upgrade of the tol system. The choice of exactly this dubious direct award procedure, bypassing the open procedure that is readily stated in this case, is not an accident. But the API justifies it with the argument that the company in question is not competing for the execution of the order because of the technical reasons. The argument presented to the Court of Auditors by the API is that the company in question has built up tol the system under a previous contract with the Road Agency and it would be the easiest way to continue its maintenance and upgrade. The justification that this has been a practice in other European countries also hangs because this can only happen when the firm in question has gone through a specific open tender procedure and has won its final. Tol's a printing press for money, you know? Strange procedures and legal services contracts for millions of levs and ten more contracts again with direct award to natural persons related to the construction and operation of the toll system are listed as confirmed violations of the Court of Auditors' audit. The insolence to collect appetizing money has reached the point that, through direct negotiation and directly awarded contracts with natural persons, not even described what activities will be carried out. There are other absurdities. Payment activities that have not been contracted at all shall be reported. The Tol system is a money printing company, you know? No surprise, ladies and gentlemen. For this dubious freedom and generosity in securing the start of the Tol system by the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, we have repeatedly alerted in the Forty-fourth National Assembly for more and more questionable regulations on the tol system. Do you remember: the seven per cent commissioning in front of national suppliers and the bloated with a vaguely busy state of tol management, the persistent questions why the state through API directly does not collect the road taxes, and this is given as an appetizing commitment to private operators; do you remember the failed start of the tol system; do you remember promises over a billion annual revenues and the reality of one third of them collected in a year? We're still looking for the golden hen that will lay eggs to fit it into the Biodiversity Act, but we can't find it. Remember how our country paid $20 million? lv. to the World Bank for the preparation of a task on the toll system? The former ruling colleagues may be comfortable to forget what one of theirs and ours said, of course, beloved Minister Lilyana Pavlova, on the topic of the Tol system in 2017. I will simply recall it. She says: "We have bet so in the tender documentation that the system is Bulgarian, the rights source code to be Bulgarian of the Ministry and the Agency, not to be given into other people's hands, not to pay licenses, we want it to be ours, Bulgarian, with our rights to govern ourselves. These are elements of national security, so there is also one such interest here. The ideals of national security, and now even more. And it has to be even more! But GERB well know in the name of what this security was bravely abandoned for the sake of some tens of millions, and they found themselves in the hands of a foreign company, given repeatedly. Find the justification for how we can't manage our own toll system, how we don't have footage, key, code and whatever you like about arguments. Another conceit plot that has been being alarmed for several years, but the steering caravan had no intention of ending it. Because of all this, a whole series of regional development ministers and traffic agency chiefs from the government to 2021 should soon be at the attention of the investigation by name and explain the unfortunately wasted tens and hundreds of millions of public resources in the road toll sector. Because we from BSP for Bulgaria believe that the time has come for truths and bearing true responsibility for illegally distributed and used state funds in the tol system. It is time for the guilty to be recognized by the right person, because we have long understood that the system built and put into service under this government is neither the cheapest nor Bulgarian nor part of national security. But yes, it turned out to be successful and even more successful as a money printing plant, for millions of millions, in someone's accounts. Colleagues, it's time to take responsibility. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u186	Thank you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u187	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u188	Mr. Nankov, let's just pass the vote with the procedure. Thank you. Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal made by Mr. Iskren Arabadzhiev that the time for proposals between the first and second votes concerning the adopted bill amending the Labour Code be three days. Vote 117 MPs: 86, against 26, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. For the procedure, Mr. Nankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u189	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u190	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the full knowledge that I should not comment on the declaration of colleague Manol Genov, I will not do it. I would like to make you a note. The fact is that you cannot follow any statement made under a bill, decision or declaration lodged by a parliamentary group, whether it contains untruths or honest lies, but in this case there have been obvious ones. I would just like to remind you that from this parliamentary tribune of the highest tribune in the Republic of Bulgaria, it is unacceptable to make such requests, to make similar sentences, and here my reply is really entirely to you and it is in the manner of holding you to interrupt such MPs. Even when they're making statements and making sentences, I think you should step in. They really very well missed the fact that you see, this report, which my colleague Genov commented on, was lying on the expertise of the advisor of Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova. This is the external expert that the Court of Auditors has hired in court to make these findings, which, you see, exactly... [[speaking indistinctly]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u192	Mr. Nankov, let's not get into this. This report may enter the Chamber and take an attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u193	...at this moment are extremely well served. I really apologized for doing this thing. Once again, I appeal to you, with all due respect, to interrupt the MPs and to interrupt me as well as my colleague Svilenski just now. But even by making a statement in the case when they pronounce untruths, outspoken by this tribune, let alone making judgments, that is, to put it mildly, unacceptable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u194	Thank you, Mr. Nankov. Moving on to the next item on the agenda, fellow Members: PRINCIPLE OF THE COMPANY OF THE COMPANY OF THE COMPANY OF THE BLOCK (BLOCK) AND OF THE BLOCK (F-16 BLOCK-AAA) (F-16 BLOCK-BLOCK-BLOCK-BLOCK-BLOCK-BLOCK 70) (F-16 BLOCK-BLOCK 70 AIRCRAFT AND ASSOCIATED SUBPORT) Reports have been submitted by the Defence Committee and the Budget and Finance Committee. Who will present us with the Defence Committee Report? Mr. Zafirov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the bill for ratification of an international agreement on Amendment and Supplement No 1 to the Letter with tender and acceptance of the offer (LOA) BU-D-SAB 70 and related maintenance (F-16 Block 70 aircraft and associated support), international contract (LOA) BU-D-AAA At a meeting held on 19 July 2022, the Defence Committee examined that draft. The bill and its motives were presented by Minister Dragomir Zakov. He pointed out that the international contract BU-D-SAB under the terms of the US Foreign Military Sales Programme (FMS) was signed by the Defence Minister on 11 July 2019 and ratified by Law adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 26 July 2019. The ratification law was promulgated in issue 60 of 2019. The U.S. government has entrusted the implementation of this contract to the US Air Force Life Cycle Management Command (AFLCMC). During the negotiations with Lockheed Martin Aeronautics (LM Aero) for a contract for the production of aircraft and subsequently in the course of implementation of the programme, the Programme Office F-16 Bulgaria (PMO F-16 Bulgaria/AFLCMC) defines a number of options for improving the performance of the contract, which require different changes in the content of the signed contract BU-D-SAB. Where changes are not assessed as significant, the Design Office may make changes to the contract through the so-called modification. The implementation of such changes under the U.S. Defence Department's Security Assistance Manual does not require the consent and signature of modifications in the content of the BU-D-SAB contract. The draft contract BU-D-SAB LOA A1 was drawn up under US law in compliance with the same standard conditions as already in force contracts for the acquisition of F 16 Block 70, equipment and armaments for it (verified by law, amended, SG No. 60 from 2019) . On the basis of Protocol No 22 of 27 May 2022 from a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 17 June 2022, the International Amendment and Supplement No 1 to a Letter with an offer and acceptance of the offer (LOA) BU-D-SAB The signed Amendment and Appendix does not change the Standard Terms and Conditions for the implementation of the FMS contract BU-D-SAB LOA, which are included in its content. It does not increase the value of the contract signed in 2019 and does not require additional contributions to the advance amount already paid by us. The proposed amendment does not reduce or narrow down the set capabilities of the weapons system F-16 Block 70, as stated in the requirements of the Bulgarian side when signing the supply contract. The deadline for the entry into force of the signed contract BU-D-SAB A1 after its last extension at our request and informing the US country of the implementation of the Bulgarian procedures for its entry into force expires on 15 August 2022. After written consent by the US Air Force, the Ministry of Defence will reflect this on the signed document. This is the first amendment and addition to this international FMS contract BU-D-SAB and given the dynamics in the global economic situation will not be the last. According to US Air Force information, as soon as this amendment enters into force, work will be started on the next Amendment No 2. The United States Government has requested that the signed Amendment and Supplement No 1 to (LOA) BU-D-SAB be treated as having controlled non-classified information (Controlled Unclassified Information-CUI) which must not be made public. Given the need to ensure confidentiality in this regard in art. 2 The draft law proposes that the National Assembly order the international Treaty on Amendment and Supplement No 1 to (LOA) BU-D-SAB not to be published in the Official Journal. In addition, the proposed draft ratification law contains an option for solving another extremely important issue for the Ministry of Defence, in particular the creation of a mechanism for accelerated signing of amendments and additions to already ratified and effective FMS contracts. The FMS programme shall establish a standard period of 2 months for the signature of contracts and additions and amendments thereto. In view of the requirements of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, compliance with this deadline is virtually impossible. For this reason, and for the purpose of operational and effective management of the funds under these contracts, it is proposed that the Minister of Defence be authorised to conclude amendments and additions to ratified FMS without subsequent ratification where this is related to the technical, organisational or other parameters of delivery and does not result in an increase in the value provided as an obligation for the Bulgarian party in the following international contracts (Reg., SG 60 of 2019) Subcutaneous or intravenous use - (LOA) BU-D-SAB, F-16 Block 70 and associated support (F-16 Block 70 craft and associated support), worth $ 1,230,476,943. - (LOA) BU-D-AAA, - (LOA) BU-P-AAD, "Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II missiles related materials and services" (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missiles, Associated material and services), worth $ 20,437,635. - (LOA) BU-P-LAR, Multifunctional Information Distribution System (MIDS JTRS) (5) and related support and equipment (Multifunctional Information Distribution System Joint Tactical Radio System (MIDS JTRS) (5) and related support and equipment), worth $ 4,777,771 USD. The Minister informed the Members of the National Assembly of an opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the provision of art. 6 for its compliance with the International Contracts Act. From the members of the Defence Committee participated in the discussion and in support of the draft took part: President Atanas Zafirov, Vice-Presidents Alexander Alexandrov, Blagovest Belev and Hristo Gajev and the national representative Atanas Slavov. All of them united around the opinion the proposal in § 1 of the closing provisions for establishing art. 6 to be removed from the Bill to avoid non-compliance with art. 85, para. 3 of the Constitution and the International Contracts Act. After the end of the discussion, a vote was held with 9 votes for the amendment, 1 vote for the proposed and 1 vote for the defence committee, proposed by the National Assembly to adopt the Law on the ratification of an international agreement on Amendment and Supplement No 1 to the Letter of Offer and Admission of the Offer (LOA) BU-D-SAB and related support for the F-16 Block 70 aircraft and related support for the international treaty (LOA) BU-D-SAB, international contract (LOA) BU-AAA (BOCK 70) in support of the F-16 (Munitions support of the F-16), international contract (LOA)
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u196	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. A report from the Budget and Finance Committee, Mr. Karimanski, I assume that you will present the report to us in summary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u197	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of an international agreement on Amendment and Supplement No 1 to the Letter with tender and acceptance of the offer (LOA) BU-D-SAB 70 and related maintenance (F-16 Block 70 aircraft and associated support), international contract (LOA) BU-D-AAA submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2022. At an extraordinary meeting held on 19 July 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Defence Minister Dragomir Zakov and Vladislav Sekerov, Director of the Department of Armed Forces. The bill was presented by Minister Dragomir Zakov. At the beginning of his speech he stressed that he wished to be withdrawn art. 6 of the Bill to avoid non-compliance with art. 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The President of the Budget and Finance Committee has made it clear that this can only be done with a proposal from a Member of the Parliament between the first and second votes or in the plenary. The International Treaty BU-D-SAV "Airplanes F-16 Block 70 and related support" (F-16 Block 70 aircraft and associated support) under the terms of the US Foreign Military Sales Programme (FMS) was signed by the Defence Minister on 11 July 2019 and ratified by a law adopted by the 44th National Assembly on 26 July 2019. The ratification law was published in Issue 60 of 2019. The U.S. government has entrusted the implementation of this contract to the US Air Force Life Cycle Management Command (AFLCMC). During the negotiations with Lockheed Martin Aeronautics (LM Aero) for a contract for the production of aircraft and subsequently in the course of implementation of the programme, the Programme Office F-16 Bulgaria (RMO F-16 Bulgaria/AFLCMC) defines a number of options for improving the performance of the contract, which require different changes in the content of the signed contract BU-D-SAB. The draft contract BU-D-SAB LOA A1 was drawn up under US law in compliance with the same standard conditions as already in force contracts for the acquisition of F-16 Block 70, equipment and armaments for it (verified by law, update, SG No. 60 from 2019) . On the basis of Protocol No 22 of 27 May 2022 from a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 17 June 2022, the International Amendment and Supplement No 1 to a Letter with an offer and acceptance of the offer (LOA) BU-D-SAB The signed Amendment and Appendix does not change the Standard Terms and Conditions for the implementation of the FMS contract BU-D-SAB LOA, which are included in its content. It does not increase the value of the contract signed in 2019 and does not require additional contributions to the advance amount already paid by Bulgaria. The proposed amendment does not reduce or narrow down the set capabilities of the weapons system F-16 Block 70, as stated in the requirements of the Bulgarian side when signing the supply contract. The deadline for the entry into force of the signed contract BU-D-SAB A1 after its last extension at the request of the Bulgarian country, and informing the US country of the implementation of the Bulgarian procedures for its entry into force expires on 15 August 2022. After written consent of the US Air Force, the Ministry of Defence will reflect this on the signed document. This is the first amendment and addition to this international FMS contract BU-D-SAB and given the dynamics in the global economic situation will not be the last. The US Government has requested that the signed Amendment and Supplement No 1 to (LOA) BU-D-SAB be treated as containing controlled non-classified information (Controlled Unclassified Information-CUI) which must not be made public. Given the need to ensure confidentiality in this regard in art. 2 The draft law proposes that the National Assembly order the international Treaty on Amendment and Supplement No 1 to (LOA) BU-D-SAB not to be published in the Official Journal. In the course of the discussion Prof. Rumen Gechev took note by expressing his concerns that the proposed ratification will allow a delay in the implementation of the original contract from 2019, as well as an increase in the previously agreed amounts. He believes that the interest of Bulgarian taxpayers is not protected in this case and said that the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and will not support the bill. According to the MP Andrey Gurov, the contract must be implemented by defending national interests. He made a recommendation to the Minister to check whether these changes would lead to new financial commitments for our country. In conclusion, he stressed that the MPs from the parliamentary group of "We continue the change" will support the bill. In response to the MP Tsoncho Ganev Minister Zakov explained that the supplies of the first eight F-16 Block 70 aircraft are expected in the first three months of 2025 and the entire 16 aircraft squadron will be available in 2027 or 2028. Commission President Lyubomir Karimanski asked the Minister whether, in addition to those four contracts, there was also a maintenance contract and expressed concern that over time, maintenance of software and hardware and communication systems could result in cumulative costs. After the discussion, a vote was held, which received the following results: 14 votes for the vote, 4 votes against the vote and no votes, which was abstentioned. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, the Draft for ratification of an international amendment treaty and Appendix 1 to a Letter of tender...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u198	You may not read it, Mr. Karimansky. The name has already been read several times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u199	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u200	Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I would just like to add, as we have also mentioned in the Defence Committee Report, regarding proposals in the draft article. 6 and received further opinions from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Legal Directorate of the National Assembly, we believe that art. 6 as part of § 1 should be dismissed because it is contrary to the Constitution, and of course this can happen between first and second readings in the respective procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues, the discussion will take place after the break. I'm giving it till 12:30. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u203	Dear colleagues, the break expired a few minutes ago. Accordingly, I shall resume the sitting and open a discussion on the bill thus tabled. To make a statement, Blagovest Belev. Mr. Belev, come in, you have the floor. Professor Gechev then record.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a pity that the interest in this topic is very weak. I also see no place for a particular discussion on the subject, as there are several points that are indisputable. First of all, this is the final price, the framework price of the contract, which remains unchanged, and this is clearly written down, and the Bill mentions it. In addition, there is also a time limit within which we have to receive the produced aircraft (s) 2025 and some timetable has been made within the year. The Ministry of Defence needs this bill, and I, colleagues, call on all of us to adopt the Bill, just as almost unanimously in the Defence Committee, where I think it was the place of discussion and where the meaningful discussion took place. Such a bill will not be the only one. Unfortunately, as the treaty is signed, changes in it can occur only with a sanction of the National Assembly. You yourself understand the risk to the implementation of the arrangements in cases where, for example, there is no National Assembly. According to the Foreign Cooperation and Assistance Programme of the Ministry of the United States, these offers are valid for two months as well as for the present. The deadline within which it expires is August 15. So we must be very responsible, of course, very operational in order not to stop the implementation of the Programme. And one more thing I would like to stress, given the fact that the work of the National Assembly is made public, namely that the money paid under the contract is located in a special payment account of an account from which only and solely intended for the implementation of specific lines of the contract can be withdrawn. The Government of the United States is not entitled to use funds on other lines without a sanction from the National Assembly. You understand that the control of these funds is entirely in the hands of the Bulgarian Parliament. Something that is not mentioned in the proposal first of its kind is that we are receiving further training of two more pilots and two people engineering. Perhaps in the next proposals, the next changes that will take place will again be similar proposals within the set price. To conclude, I would like to call on all of you to vote for, support this bill, because it is important for the further implementation of arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u205	Thank you, Professor Belev. Are there any lines, colleagues? Hristo Gazhev, come in, Mr. Gajev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Belev, three things I'd like to correct a little in your speech. The first is that the planes will arrive 2024 and 2025 and not 2025. Only the delay is one year. They were for 2023 " 2024," now it's 2024 " 2025." That's the first thing I'm gonna do. Second, when the contract is signed and why art. 6 breeds all these debates, the opinion of lawyers is that a treaty ratified by the National Assembly can only be amended by the authority that ratified it, that is to say, the National Assembly, and that is why we are looking again at yet another ratification. So a few months ago, there was another one for rockets, the same way. When the treaty was signed, no one imagined that the country would be in a permanent political crisis for two years and more time would be without parliament than with parliament. Otherwise, as you can see, the ratification process itself is not at all slow and delaying the conclusion of contracts or the implementation of the procedure for acquiring F-16. The bill itself was submitted the first week of July. Today is the second week of July, the third even, and the Bill will be passed. For the reason that texts need to be changed, it cannot be done today, it is clear. But within two or three weeks, the ratification process takes place, so this cannot be the object of delay. The third correction, which I would like to say, is the funds paid by the Bulgarian state, are given in an approved fund to the Federal Reserve. And they are there, and this is approved by the State Budget Act for 2022. In each law on the state budget there is text, behind the budget of the Ministry of Defence, where it is clearly defined where the funds under this contract are and how they are spent. In this case, they are in an approved account in the Federal Reserve, not in the United States Government, and hence the funds that are paid for each contract and for each purchase of arms. They can't be used for anything else. Even if they are a bank account, they carry their interest accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u207	And thank you, Mr. Gadget. Is there a second line, colleagues? I won't. Do you want to do the doppelganger, Professor Belev? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u208	Thank you, Mr. Gadget, thank you for the line. It was nice of you to make these observations and I would like to use your note in respect of art. 6 in the covenant, because it really turns out to be key and forces us to do what we are doing now. The contract, when concluded, could have been concluded in a slightly different way. The legal side of this act allows for the fixing of articles which are not unconstitutional. Unfortunately, that's how it was made at the time. May God have real consent and operationality on the part of any next parliament to make quick decisions, as the deadline, you understand, is limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u209	Thank you, Mr. Belev. Professor Gechev was enrolled for a speech. You have the floor, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u210	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My speech is a little different from what has been expected so far. Why? First, honourable Members, all the warnings that I and my BSP colleagues and I made in 2019 when we explicitly said that this was a humiliating treaty that risked the national security of Bulgaria and Bulgaria's finances, we were right. With what arguments? First of all, the first risk Bulgaria enters into a contract for the delivery of airplanes, which are on a drawing. No F-16 Block 70 aircraft was produced and produced to date by Lockheed Martin in the United States of America. Still flying over 3000 F-16 this is popular, experts say, and a very good plane, but they are another modification. To give 2.5 billion leva in the new course of blueprints, which do not know what the final result will be, and this is a risky product, well, I have no idea exactly what this is about. Secondly, we said that the contract was signed at a time when Lockheed Martin moved part of its production from the state of Texas to South Carolina for the reason that it expanded its production of the other fifth generation model F-35 and transferred the old fourth generation to South Carolina to supply developing countries with this model. It is also cheaper, of course, and we must extend according to our rug. We said this model was banned and not purchased from the Pentagon because the Pentagon was already buying an F-35, not the older model, the older fourth generation. In addition, the second group of questions was that we pay a hundred percent advance. And now, be careful "Bulgaria will now enter the textbooks on international negotiations and international negotiations, such as which contract is the most, I will say straight out................................................................................. Why? Because we're breaking the world record right now. We pay a hundred percent of the goods in July 2019, today we are 20 July 2022 and say what, planted on crow eggs, the new minister here for several months, he said will fly the plane the first quarter of 2025. There is no such people so far, there are no rulers who have entered into a contract to pay the full amount and wait six years! There isn't one! We are number one in Bulgaria, on this occasion! It was said why we paid up front a hundred percent. First, General Konstantin Popov, head of Parliament's Defence Committee at the time, who was fiercely defending this project with arguments, he said, quote: "That this happened at the insistence of the Government of the United States of America. "And Mr. Borisov, on 19 July of the same year, one day before that, on 19 July, said that he personally insisted on paying a hundred percent in advance. Therefore, one of the 19th says that he insisted, the prime minister at that time, Mr. Borisov, General Konstantin Popov on July 20th said that the government of the United States and the Pentagon had insisted. One of them is lying cruelly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u211	Both of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u212	It's your choice, I don't know which one. Thirdly, we said that the plane is being bought to get into the financial framework, without full armaments, you remember. The bombs, the aircraft, are without a guidance system, which costs extra money. And that wasn't taken into account. Fourth, an extremely difficult time that the aircraft under the contract signed in 2019, ladies and gentlemen, honourable viewers, compatriots, are without any guarantees, technical and other. If you buy a coffee maker, I said 2019, the guarantee is two years. There's no guarantee there's an armed plane worth nearly 200 million. And it says in the contract that there are beginning to write invoices from the Pentagon and from Lockheed Martin to any malfunction of the plane in Bulgaria send an invoice that is not subject to discussion. It says in the contract that we pay as much as they say. If there is a problem, there is no guarantee. After that, it explicitly states that the Bulgarian side puts its signature on it. If, God forbid, something happens to the life or health of any of the pilots or ground personnel, in the case of a technical problem of one of the planes, the American side bears no responsibility at all. Next, all cases relating to this problem are in the court of the United States of America, not in international courts. And now, honourable Members, after the country's leadership at the time, has signed this scandalous treaty after they lied to the Bulgarian people and lied to the Bulgarian Army, as to explain that this is not just a matter of 2.5 billion. BGN, this is about that at the moment we, Bulgaria, are in a situation close to the front line, with a leaking resource of mig and su fighter planes, with forbidden possibilities even for partial repairs, because we are not allowed to repair the main units and units of migs and su, we are currently and these few aircraft that are left will be grounded and the Republic of Bulgaria remains without fighter aviation without this key element of the Air Forces of Bulgaria. I mean, that's the kind of contract you signed, coworkers. That's the tragedy. This is the cross of the Air Force of Bulgaria in the coming months and years. In addition, what is required to sign a supplement to the contract, I would like to ask? We Bulgarians want the contract to be fulfilled. We've paid, we're counting on our strategic partner. The Ministry of Defence of the United States lied to the Bulgarian Ministry of Defence, put us in an unselected vineyard and now wants me to understand that there is an offer for eight more planes, that is, eight more drawings to pay for 2.5 billion, which will be delivered perhaps 3037. Next, here the Minister of Defense, here is now the responsibility of this government is that he wants to withdraw art. 6. And in the Commission, I said, "What did he have to say? When you negotiated with the American side, doesn't the Department of Defense have a legal department, where are the lawyers of the Council of Ministers? Do they not see that it is being proposed and you have signed something that contradicts the Bulgarian Constitution, so we withdraw it? Where-where will the Bulgarian Parliament ratify a treaty and then any minister will change it? That kind of practice, you don't have to be a lawyer, there's no such thing in the world. What's going to happen? For example, here we will approve a price, and then any minister will make additions and anexes of the contract. In addition, my speech in the Commission has been misinterpreted that I have expressed doubts that the amount under this treaty will change. Let me get this straight. Yes, the amount, you say, will remain the same. However, the prices of the individual components, details and services of the contract are changing. Very interesting. And since we're talking about an F-16 aircraft with guns, I'm making you an assumption that they're going to cut the prices of individual knots and the details of the main vehicle on the plane, and they're going to upload the prices of armaments, which means the total price doesn't change now, but in the future, God forbid, when those nice planes come, we're going to start buying arms with rockets at other prices. Because now they're gonna come with six rockets, three rockets under the wing pretty much. Well, these planes are firing rockets, there's a drill, we're buying new missiles. At what prices? So there is no guarantee of what prices armaments will be at in the future. After that, it was said here by colleagues how good our money is - 2 and a half billion - the Bulgarian people - stand for one account locked through nine mountains in tenth, according to the Federal Reserve accounts. This is where I'm gonna cry! They didn't use it at all, the Americans, that money. They're just sitting there. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, money doesn't have ribbons. They stand at the expense of the Pentagon's budget and he spends it the way he wants. But even if we assume this unreasonable assumption that the money is stacked like cash in a box, what is it with us Bulgarians? Do we have any planes? There are no planes. Do we have any weapons? We don't. We don't have any blueprints, as you say, coworkers, because we haven't seen any blueprints either. So that money is standing out there while we are in tragedy with the Air Force of Bulgaria, there is no explanation. What are the options? What should Bulgarian politicians do in these conditions? Firstly, the immediate start of talks with our United States partners on how the issue of compensation will be resolved. What compensates the United States for telling us today to sign again possibly for supplies of 2025? Plus, it says here that there may be other changes in time limits, that is, three days before January 2025, they will come again to parliament to postpone for 3027 February. Where are the penalties? If they like, our strategic partners or return the money to Bulgaria and buy airplanes from other countries - members of the European Union and NATO; second, or pay compensation in the form of financial compensation or armaments; or third, after they have not provided us with airplanes for the Bulgarian Army, if they like, to provide us with F-16 from the previous combination, with their support, while holding the money and not delivering the goods. [[Noise, lines, laughter from GERB-SDS.]] So, in conclusion... Don't smile! It's a shame! You signed the contract, colleagues from GERB. The people who signed this shameful and humiliating treaty: are Boyko Borisov Prime Minister, General Konstantin Popov Head of Defence Commission and Minister of Defence Mr. Karakachanov. You signed a contract... [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "There is nothing to say! "]] There's nothing to say! The money is not in the Bulgarian people, there are no planes, there are no blueprints and you are bothering us with deadlines yet I do not know how many years. So shame and disgrace to those who betrayed the Bulgarian interests and put the Bulgarian army at risk. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u213	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Tsoncho Ganev, Iskren Mitev and GERB, colleagues you consider for the third line. Here you are, Mr. Ganev, you have the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u214	Mr. Chairman! Professor Gechev, all that stuff you said, if you let me sign it, I will personally sign this whole thing that you protected right now. Yesterday at the Commission, you said exactly the same thing. I welcome you, and I confirm every single thing you've said, especially in the end with compensation for this whole thing that you've put on pretty spacious display. But there are a few things I'd like to point out because I'm confused. Firstly, in the Commission yesterday, while you and the other two representatives of the BSP voted against this thing, at the same time the Defence Committee, the Chairman of the Defence Committee, Mr. Zafirov, voted for.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u215	Huh?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u216	BSP's other representative in the Defence Committee voted abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u217	Huh?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u218	It's your right, there's just a discrepancy. I don't know. Now we will see who will vote from your group, as I say again, you are saying things about which I would sign immediately, and I welcome you for saying them from this tribune. The other thing I don't agree with, I can't understand why all the time, talking and describing all this stuff because, let's face it, this is a ransom that was paid by the government back then to continue to rule for another year. So all this ransom was paid by us and we don't have any planes, we don't have blueprints. The minister yesterday said we'd buy another eight drawings. But the point is, you've been in charge for over seven months. This minister is yours, this minister is elected by your coalition. It is this minister and this ministry or the former minister of this majority who has submitted a request for a proposal for new drawings. Very profitable. So my question is, and what I'm pointing at is rhetorical, I know the answer, why didn't BSP do anything about buying blueprints? Otherwise, here, from this stand, you have very well exposed what you think, and I stand by it. But what can Mr. Zafirov say? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Will he stand up to protect your words, or will he be in another position as the votes are one? As Barekov says: "Don't look at me, listen to what I'm saying. " - So in this regard, we will also look at the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u219	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Honest Mitev for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u220	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gechev, we have repeatedly seen from this tribune people declare that they have signed under documents without reading them. I'm not surprised at the front line. I will not agree with one of the things you said, Mr. Gechev, and it is related to Bulgaria paying more for the planes. A very quick reference, Mr. Gechev, shows that the dollar, when we made the payment, was BGN 1.72, or $100 then cost BGN 172. A hundred dollars today, Mr. Gechev, is BGN 191. The difference is 11%, inflation over these three years is 6.1%, which means that if we had paid the same aircraft today, Mr. Gechev, the Bulgarian budget would have suffered with that 5%. So... I am with the Budget Committee and address only the budget of this law and tell you that you are wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u221	Thank you, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u222	And I wouldn't sign anything you say. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u223	Thank you for the supplement. Mr. Bikov, you have the floor for the third line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u224	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Gechev, I have no reason not to believe you, because you are a mandate carrier and what you say is probably shared by those who negotiate with you and who are willing to compromise in the name of the state, of course, not in the name of staying at their posts. Mr. Mitev only may have some remarks, but they are related to the price of the dollar from three years ago and now, which are quite technocratic and pragmatic. But basically, as far as I understand it, there's no problem with what you're saying. And you also pointed to a solution on top of that. Your decision, by the way, sounded like I hadn't thought of such a decision, to start talking immediately. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] So eight months you start some kind of conversation and you keep them going, the problem is you can't stop them. Give, if there is any change, take it, and so you have taken the mandate, if there is any change in the geopolitical orientation of Bulgaria, discuss it, make a decision and do not talk, but just say it [[Replicates from the BSP for Bulgaria "There was a Gripen."]] There was a Gripen, okay. Maybe Gripen, they're already in NATO, but that's gonna be a problem for you. And they're starting to enter NATO, and the Swedes, and Gripen won't be very suitable either, because it'll be NATO, too. Make a decision. Now, I see here colleagues agree obviously, if no one comes out except Mr. Mitev, and he from a budgetary point of view, give geopolitically. Otherwise, in the Commission obviously you also have some wires of western influence to take to vote for. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] So pull yourself together and get started. If we're gonna do something, we're gonna change course, change course now. There's no point in waiting for years to pass in these tortures.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u225	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. For the backdrop, Professor Gechev, do you want the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u226	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have learned from the lines that there is no way and there is no question of any fact that I have given. As I presented facts, I systematized them and I made the visible conclusion the money was not of the Bulgarian people. Boyko Borisov, General Konstantin Popov and Minister Karakachanov signed a contract, the money of the Bulgarian people is gone, the planes are gone. There's Euro-Atlantic solidarity that we're going to put in instead of those eight F-16s. Good for you by GERB and your allies! That makes sense. Secondly, your banter about who voted how. You didn't take notes when we told you from this tribune one by one what happened now, because you're the one who messed up the mess that needs to be dealt with. Secondly, regarding the percentages of my friend and colleague Iskren Mitev, we will not have conversations because... So, Sparkle, if they deliver 5021 to us, we'll have saved hundreds of millions of dollars. And our pilots by then, a few generations, will be driving taxis instead of F-16s. That's how you put it, in a funny way. Don't think of these percentages that way. I would consider you something else under international and Bulgarian treaties one day late in the contract, how much is it, colleagues, here......................................................... One percent for 10 days, 3% per month, 12 months The second eight Pentagon planes must be free on international contracts. I think so, Sparkle, not that the difference is BGN 2.64. Three, there's been some suggestion here, and I'm telling you again, who's gonna vote? The Bulgarian Socialist Party has warned that a huge mistake is being made not because partners are the United States of America, which are a great state, are the leader of NATO, are our partner, but we, and I personally at the moment, am outraged that our strategic partner is twisting our hands, playing us, using our money, spinning, sucking and finally making the government now and your groceries fix, and now signing new contracts. Because, I conclude with this, the main purpose of signing the new treaty, you know, honourable Members, to sign on to the National Assembly's protocol, they want us to ratify the treaty, not because the windshield wipers have dropped by 5 cents. They ask the Bulgarian government now and you, you decide at the moment to vote that the Bulgarian state cannot seek compensation. They want us to sign right now that we won't be looking for compensation, that they're slowing us down for two years. Don't fool and lie for two months. Quite frankly, the Minister of Defence said in the Commission the first quarter of 2025, but he has no way, the colleague, to make this commitment, does not manufacture the planes, produces them, Martin Lockheed and the Pentagon. So things aren't good. First, Bulgarian money is used, second, we are kicked as an empty gourd, and thirdly, the Air Force of Bulgaria is grounded. So my appeal is a shame and a disgrace to those Bulgarian politicians who betrayed the Bulgarian interest, ruined the air force of Bulgaria and now we are in an unbrought vineyard. Political responsibility must be sought. By whom? By Boyko Metodiev Borisov, signed Karakachanov, Minister of Defence, and who is the third General Konstantin Popov. Have a nice day. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u227	Thank you, Professor. For speech is recorded Nikolai Drenchev. Mr. Zafirov, if you want a personal explanation, can I give you the floor? No. Mr. Drenchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u228	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Who does what, our National Assembly revised the contracts for F 16 and the connecting tts to close the door. It's a vicious contract. In fact, these aren't contracts. They don't clearly describe what we're going to get, when we're going to get it, how much we're going to pay it, and if we don't get it, what's next? The money's gone, the planes are gone, that's a fact. What the Council of Ministers is now proposing to ratify, must be immediately rejected only because of the existence of point six, which they declare to remove it, but do not have a procedure in which... They have to remove her first. I think they should withdraw what they brought in now, then bring it in without point six, and then watch it again. I really don't know why we're doing this right now. In the last days of this National Assembly, this government and this coalition, we deal with similar things. He's got a contract to run. I say: there is a contract, as long as this thing that we have signed can be called a contract. It's clear to everyone that this is not a contract. No defense capabilities bought, no planes purchased, no indulgence purchased. The then prime minister's indulgence, then the defence minister and for some reason, with some huge Euro-Atlantic solidarity, we are still going in the wrong direction. Let us let this treaty be fulfilled as it is signed. Let's see what we get after spending so many billions, because that's an awful lot of money. Because this is money that, if 2019 had entered our economy, if they had been made roads or kindergartens or hospitals, at the moment our society would have received some product. Even if they were just stolen under some corruption schemes, they would still remain here in Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]] Some would have built castles, and the builders of these castles would have built panel apartments in Lyulin and there would still be something. There's nothing at the moment. There's no defense capabilities, that's the biggest crime, because tomorrow we're gonna say, "Let's get our fighters on the ground." What are they taking off on? We don't have any planes to maintain their battle stations, and we don't know when we'll have them. We need a very serious revision of what is happening at the Ministry of Defence, the way defence policies are prepared and conducted. If you really want to dig deeper into this subject, I suggest we do a closed session, closed down, where we call the Air Force generals to tell you what the situation is, to tell you what we really have. Tell you what we won't have, because we'll get some planes without key systems that won't serve anything. And these are huge problems that I can't tell you right now in open court. What I appeal to do is simply reject this proposal of ratification. If the next National Assembly is introduced in another way, another bill, we can look at it in order to finally solve once and for all the entire Augiev barn with this treaty, an infinitely vicious one, I say again, a contract in quotes and leave it to the people who will come to the new National Assembly and to the new government to clean out these Augie stables. And right now, let's get on with some other bills, if you have any, for a Development Plan or anything at all, to create something in the last twelve minutes without five minutes of this National Assembly and this Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u229	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Are there any lines, colleagues? Mr. Dimitrov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask Mr. Danchev instead of at twelve without five to deal with contracts for airplanes, which we may never see, but at least on a drawing maybe we have seen them, in the Commission you have seen them.... is it not better to think about how to raise the military readiness of our LAGs and have this been discussed in the Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u231	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any other lines? Mr. Anastasov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Mr. Drenchev, you have the right to speak to each other politically these are, of course, the spirit of parliamentaryism. Of course, what you said is not quite true because there are so-called offset contracts or contracts for industrial cooperation, as part of these funds will be invested in Bulgaria. But I will call on one of the ruling colleagues to come after me and a little more detail to clarify this topic so as not to leave speculation. And this is a general appeal, colleagues. If we do not leave any subject addressed here in this debate, we will leave even more space to speculate. We don't have the right to this thing. Mr. Minister, I also call on you to do every subject, and we will not have any obstructions when you think you should join us. No irresponsible question should remain from this debate, so as not to speculate with the Euro-Atlantic orientation of Bulgaria. But that and then we'll talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u233	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Is there a third line, colleagues? Professor Belev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Drenchev, I respect you as a specialist. Unfortunately, however, there is one incline in your statements in Tsoncho Ganev style that I cannot accept. In the Parliamentary Commission, you are one of the people who professionally, technocraticly defend good decisions. First of all, I would like to remind you that we are discussing a bill that tangles with the treaty, but has another purpose. I will also use to tell Mr. Tsoncho Ganev that the Military Commission is discussing expert issues and that is why Mr. Zafirov voted as he has voted because he is aware of the need to adopt this bill. The budget side of the issue is different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u235	Thank you, Professor Belev. For the coat, Mr. Drenchev, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u236	Thanks for the lines. The purpose of this bill was to hide from the National Assembly and society the way in which the F-16 contract was implemented. This was done in art. 6. That was actually the point, at least that's how I interpret it. And for the reason that they felt that they violated the Constitution, it is now stated to the two committees that it will be withdrawn between first and second readings, which is to be seen whether it will happen. Personally for me there is such a saying: better smart enemies than stupid friends. "The way I appreciate the situation at the moment in this National Assembly, the biggest enemies of the Euro-Atlantic orientation of Bulgaria are precisely the proclamation Euro-Atlantic orientation. In this way, we do it, in which we understand it, or in which I think we understand it, with an extraordinary porridge, with an absolute disregard for our interests, it is not in the interest of anyone. It is not in the interest of Bulgaria, it is not in the interest of the Bulgarian armed forces, including it is not in the interest of NATO, because NATO's interests are to have a strong Bulgaria and a strong Bulgarian army, given that we are part of NATO. Indeed, as I understand the interests of Bulgaria, given that we participate in NATO, we must have a strong army. Let the army be NATO, let them be armed with NATO planes, let them be European planes or, if you like, any others. I am not questioning the qualities of the F-16, I am questioning the way in which the contract is made and the way in which the contract is executed. I dispute at all the choice of a program that is instead of international military sales could have been direct sales. It would have been cheaper, wouldn't it? We'd have reason to look for penalties. In any case, it would be better to protect our interests or at least spend less money. This is how I see things, and I don't think that I say things like this, which to me are obviously purely technical and pragmatic truths, in any way I declare a particular reluctance to work with NATO or NATO or to increase defence capabilities. Regarding the current situation, Bulgarian aviation, Bulgarian fighter aviation, the defence of our borders is facing an inability to perform its tasks properly. We're at the limits of being able to fly, to train, to carry out their tasks. It's only thanks to the great experience that we still have no accidents, and I hope it stays that way. We need to do something that will allow us to extend the resources or replace planes, to take some planes that have them available so that they can guard the border so that the capabilities can be maintained. Flying a plane is like going to a race, and there's no way if you didn't train, you could go to a race. You can't fly a fighter to fight him if you haven't trained, and we've got a hell of a little nag, and that's the problem. It's not the problem with what our planes are gonna be and where we're gonna buy them. Yeah, maybe that's the problem with financiers. Personally, for me as a pilot and as an officer, the biggest problem is the lack of opportunities before the Bulgarian Army and that at the moment we have spent the money purely financially, and this expenditure has not led to an increase in the combat capabilities of the Bulgarian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u237	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Professor Chorbanov, are you here for procedure? [[Reply from MP Andrey Chorbanov.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today there are many committees, many of them with very important topics for discussions and decisions, so I am making a procedural proposal to extend the working time until the conclusion of point four and the hearing of Minister Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u239	Thank you, Professor Chorbanov. Is there a reverse opinion, colleagues? I won't. My fellow Members, I am making one clarification that, in fact, the point of hearing the Minister is point five of the weekly Programme. For speech are recorded Atanas Slavov, Hristo Gazhev, Atanas Zafirov and Kostadin Kostadinov. Mr. Anastasov, I'm recording you as well. Mr. Ibryamov? [[Reply.]] Okay. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. There is a procedural proposal to extend the work in plenary until the fifth point of the weekly programme is completed, namely the hearing of Minister Asena Serbenova. I put to the vote Professor Chorbanov's procedural proposal. Vote 159 MPs: 124, against 29, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Is there a request for a re-vote, colleagues? I won't. Then we continue the discussion on this point. For speech is recorded Associate Professor Atanas Slavov. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We heard different arguments today. Much of them not on the subject of this point, but on NATO in general, on our transatlantic partnership, on how our relations should develop. However, I will try to return the debate to the item on the agenda. As you know, in law there are different sensations, but two are extremely important. The first is that the contracts must be executed. The second is that the right is for the watchers, not for the sleepers. The first part of the story. Colleagues, we have signed a contract that has the status of an international treaty under an official framework programme of the US government for international military sales. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u241	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u242	This contract has its parameters, the framework in which it is signed, too, that is, we cannot make changes there, because 2.. 3 years later we have decided that we can have more favourable conditions. We signed the contract on those terms. Under current international law, we must fulfill the treaty as it is signed, with its conditions, even if something we do not like. Let's think about it before then. This is what the law and key positions and principles of international law say. It is extremely important that this treaty gives the beginning, the beginning of modernization of our air force. Yeah, and we want a faster delivery, yeah, and we want to have more airplanes? Eight more F-16 Block 70. We have already received the offer and we must vote on it by November, but the facts are so. As much as we want to speed up this treaty, there's obviously no way we can do it at this point. We have to say that a lot of time has been missed over the past decade to modernize our air force. We also remember the possibility of gaining refurbished, renewed F-16 Block 52 from Portugal in 2012. We didn't take advantage of it for one reason or another. We have had opportunities for other platforms to commit ourselves to purchasing, but we have not done so, but what is on the table, and we must be extremely correct and focused on the implementation of this particular contract, is for the acquisition of the new F-16 Block 70 fighters. Any rhetoric about what chances are missed, what benefits are due, goes beyond the parameters of the concluded contract, which is very clear and very specific. Yes, and I would like these contracts to be able to be concluded more flexiblely, so that it is not necessary for the National Assembly to deal with this matter every two months to allow the change of different parameters within the treaty, to be able to do all this with the approval of the Minister of Defence, but unfortunately the legal framework does not allow it. After all, the point that we are discussing and voting today with this bill makes it possible, within the price that remains unchanged, that we get a better, more developed, newer management system, that is, at the same price, that we have better equipment, because it has been several years since the signing of the treaty and I see nothing reproaching, I see nothing negative in this format. On the contrary, it is good for Bulgaria, and it is good for the abilities we will receive. So the Democratic Bulgaria will undoubtedly support the Bill. I also indicate that it is important for us by the end of the year that Parliament can also consider the proposal for an offer and acceptance of the new eight fighters. And we hope to approach the issue of defence and security responsibly enough not to seek cheap political benefits with these debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u243	Thank you, Professor Slavov. Are there any lines, coworkers? Mr. Anastasov for a line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u244	Mr. Chairman, Associate Professor Slavov, a very meaningful statement. I congratulate you on it, but I will call on both you and all the others who are speaking, especially from your current coalition, not to mix political with the technical topic. If you want to have a debate on the technical theme of the country, we know that there is controlled unclassified information, let us decide to close the meeting and have a debate here on all technical topics without embarrassing ourselves without this debate being carried into society, because the main thing we are doing here is the political signal. Yeah, there's gonna be a lot of work on these contracts. However, if we are discussing the technical side, we are deviating from the main decision, namely the political decision that we need to make, because it is the leading choice in this case, everything else, so that I do not now give food to some other people in this House, but we must have a completely tight political debate here as to why we are making this decision. Entering the technical theme, we only give food to others who do not want to take advantage of the topic in order to keep their political propaganda. Please and you, I hope that you agree with what I am talking about, to limit ourselves in this country, to leave it to the Minister, because he will explain much better than we will, or the Chairman of the Defence Committee, specifically for the technical part, but also for the discussion to be in order to dispel political doubts and not give the opportunity to make political tracts in the opposite direction. That's the key right now. Because the other debate is now talking here about important laws, and I think that this next order should have already been voted, because there is still only political debate, no other. Technically speaking, we know that we need an entire squadron, we with eight fighters can't have an entire squadron. We understand that, but that's my request. Yes, Professor Gechev may have some remarks, but they are outside the political one, and it is important in this case and it is the leading one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u245	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Is there a second line? I won't. Do you wish the floor, Professor Slavov? No. To speak Hristo Gajev. Mr. Gazhev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u246	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened with interest to the debates today and yesterday on the two committees to which it was distributed, especially the arguments of Mr. Martin Lockheed, who never remembered his name, but was very reasoned in his speeches. We found out that the BSP said the Americans stole our money, and we're continuing the Change. Yesterday at the Budget and Finance Committee, we continue The Change is on the move to seek corruption in the US country - interesting thing, it seems they have fixed corruption in Bulgaria and are already going to fix corruption in the US as well. So there were many untenable claims. I just want to focus on a few of them. First of all, we've given the money up front and why we've given the money up front and so on and if the US government can walk with them? Well, gentlemen, you claim that money from the US government is being spent, I ask you to open the State Budget Act for 2022, which you have adopted. There is an al in the budget paragraph of the Ministry of Defence. 5, where it is very clear what happens to the money that has been transferred. But someone has to read the laws they import and pass. Do not become like in a gambling bill, where we say we are against gambling and children's dependence, and we propose to open gambling posts in schools. So much for money and how to walk. The advance has been paid, and it is clear to all specialists, for the simple reason that we had no prior purchase by the US government of any other type of fighting technique. Now, in the new contracts, we have opportunities for a deferred payment, as was the previous ratification for the missiles, as well as the contract for the new F-16s and any other contract with the US government for technology. We already have the possibility of a deferred payment because we have the history of a client, so to speak, as are their requirements, as are ours. Whether there will be compensation for the delay of one year, by the way, because the old time frame had to deliver 2023 and 2024, now being delivered 2024 and 2025. One year. By the way, everyone who criticizes this work, I would like to ask them: where were you for one year - 2021, when the Russian side slowed down by one year, again for the same reasons - for Kovid, MiG-29's repairs? Where were you concerned about our planes we own? One year the RSK MIG and the Russian side delayed the repairs of MiG-29. Here we have had a dispute with Minister Zakov on the subject and I have raised the subject of what we do for compensation and so on, but you from BSP never once asked why the Russians slowed down, didn't call it humiliating and so on. [[(Replys from the BSP for Bulgaria]] The penalty, if you could check how it's paid and how much it's paid. There's an answer from the Secretary of Defense on this particular matter. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So pay attention to exactly what was received and what pennies we're talking about. And for the compensations for F-16, I would like to remind you of the words of the previous Defence Minister Stefan Yanev at the end of February, who said that compensation for the penalties for the delays in supplies will be received and a delegation from the United States government arrives in March to negotiate what kind of compensation there will be. From then on, I also want to hear what happened, what negotiations have been conducted in the Ministry of Defence and what compensation have been agreed, because there are, and this has been publicly confirmed by Stefan Yanev, the Minister of Defence in this government, the Chief Minister. So such meetings and conversations are being held. From now on, I expect Minister Zakov to tell us exactly what is being agreed... whether this will be a separate package, or will it be included in the new package that is expected to arrive? But the subject that there is no compensation is complete nonsense and it has been refuted by the previous minister of this government at least listen to your own ministers. So, how many ammo, are there any ammo? There's a whole contract that's about ammo. There's four contracts, not just one. There is explicit indication of how many ammunition was delivered. There is a great practice, in principle, in the supply of ammunition and when it is acquired. First, carriers, then acquire ammunition for the simple reason that they are made easier and it makes no sense to deliver the ammunition before they deliver the platform. And this is not just about airplanes, but about all kinds of battle platforms, when you acquire a new and new type of armaments, and it's just a matter of economic appropriateness, because otherwise you have to store them for years and run out of resources. So much for some of the things you said. By the way, I would just like to point out that the draft contract is not some classified information and to suggest that there are some dramatic changes in prices or that they will load us with some prices and so on. The document is public. All the members of the Budget and Finance Committee and the Defence Committee have it. I've got it, I'm not gonna waste paper printing it for you and giving it to those who don't have it. It's in an electronic version and it's been e-mailed to the members of the committees. There you can very clearly see which paragraphs change, how they change and so on, but because yesterday the Minister of Defence during the Commission asked us not to mention specific figures, because they are some kind of trade secret, I will not dwell on them, but they are sent to the National Assembly and everyone can get acquainted. I'm asking you not to speculate on this. As for the very design of a contract that is currently available to us. How did it get to him? It is negotiated within this government.. it is not negotiated during the service governments, but by the parameters of it they have negotiated. And they are, by the way, unanimously supported by the Council of Ministers. I would like to introduce you to a protocol of 27 May this year, which was adopted a draft decision approving the draft international agreement for amendment and Appendix 1 to the letter of offer and so on, i.e. giving the Minister the opportunity to sign this contract, which was subsequently adopted by the Council of Ministers and submitted for ratification. On it, unlike the front point, which is very interesting, the front point is the debates on the Plan for the adoption of the euro, in which there is a fierce debate. As you can see from the transcript, there are ministers who voted against it, there is a minister who has abstained. At the point of this treaty, there is not a single minister who has said anything against it, that is, Ms. Ninova and the ministers of BSP have supported it. Now let's see what you do in the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u247	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u248	Check your transcripts, I read a transcript uploaded through the Legal Information System of the Council of Ministers. If you want to manipulate the shorthands of the Council of Ministers, this is how it is uploaded right now. As for the project of ratification itself, which is currently being submitted to the National Assembly. He was also adopted by the Council of Ministers and was co-ordinated and voted personally by Cornelia Ninova with art. 6 and with the ministers of BSP. I say this because I do not understand, honourable Members, the ministers of BSP in the Council of Ministers support a certain ratification and a certain bill, and the MPs of BSP are in the opposite position? At least be identical in your positions. It wouldn't be so bad if you had some kind of consistency. The treaty itself does not foresee any major dramatic changes. The main things that are in it are changes in the updating of some of the software with more modern, because yes, from 2019 to 2022 it has been almost three years and there are some more modern technologies. Logically, the American state tells us that if you want to buy more modern technologies, you can update them and get something that is newer and more quality. It is up to you, from the whole room, whether we decide for the Bulgarian pilots, for the Bulgarian Air Force to buy something more quality and more modern or not. Or buy the old one that's been going on since 2019, approved under contract, that's the difference. That is, whether or not this ratification will be accepted. If not accepted, the old parameters of the 2019 contract will remain, without updating the software mainly and the pilots' helmets. If you want to have an older technology, vote against it. If you want to have newer technology vote for. Things are very simple are not as complicated as you try to present them. The bigger news in this case is that yesterday the Minister of Defence announced that the Ministry has already received the proposal for the new F-16s and for a new draft of such a contract. Now, at least I think this thing is irresponsible because I saw somewhere somewhere a similar statement that it would be allowed for a next government to examine it, complerate or accept it, especially when there is a period of validity until 1 November. If we are going to new elections, this means that this government is running away from responsibility to do its job, leaving it to a caretaker government or possibly to a future parliament to collect its negotiations. And if, God forbid, you make a government with a BSP mandate, I will sincerely have fun and watch here a government with a BSP mandate accept such a proposal. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] Yes, perhaps in a non-existent meeting because the red lines become a little bit like in a figure gymnastics "how a BSP government will adopt and approve such a bill. Yes, already with a deferred payment, because this is already possible thanks to the work that has been done 2019. But the main thing at the moment is to accept this ratification. By the way, Mr. Chairman, I will make a proposal between the two readings and I will propose that the deadline for proposals be three days, because indeed art. 6 must be dropped, as it was tabled by the Council of Ministers. Apparently, the Council of Ministers doesn't know the Constitution, but knowing who is Prime Minister, I'm not surprised at that. So I will have a proposal between the readings, and from now on the responsibility of this government is what it will do with the new treaty, because, as we know and as has been said by the honourable Mr. Slavov, until we have 16 fighters, we have no full capabilities, no way to talk about quality missions. And yes, embezzling abilities on any battle platform does not work in a day, but is done for years of training, training and so on. The delay in them is reflected accordingly. But the Project, which is generally used for years, to say that a year's delay is critical, and perhaps it wouldn't be critical if there wasn't a war, but unfortunately, Mr Putin started a war in Ukraine and the situation in the world is quite different from what it was even last year. Unfortunately, we are on a completely different geostrategic basis, and we must now comply with it and decide what we want. As for whether other countries buy and would like to buy F-16. As far as I know, Turkey, two weeks ago, somewhere, renewed its request to purchase an F-16, which is currently being discussed in the United States Congress. According to some professors, Turkey is a third world country, I think it is a very developed economy and is our ally in NATO. So we must support the draft ratification in question and from now on look forward to what will happen to the new project. But the new project in the overall concept of development of the armed forces, including the 3D radar project, because without it and without its temporary adoption and activation, there will be little sense at all from the new planes, because new aircraft with old radars cannot work. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u249	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. First line, George Svilenski. Let me remind you that the line is usually a disagreement, okay. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! I'll start with one agreement and, of course, then with the disagreement. The agreement is that we are a good partner, and there is no denying that by being a partner who pays and expects nothing. And we pay each year ratification, update and whatever they offer us thanks to the contract that you signed. I can't deny that. I'm sure that's the kind of partner they're looking for. These partners are called douchebags. In folk language, they're called suckers, where they pay two, three, five times, and nothing comes! Looks like you brought us to this situation. And now I'm serious. Disagreement. Mr. Gadzhev, when you stand on this platform, you are a serious person, Vice-President of the Defence Committee, longtime MP, when you quote how ministers voted, I now stand and most responsible to you: and the four ministers of BSP have voted against and will not, I will not use the word lie, because there is a penalty for this word, if used, but factually and whatever exactity you want to say from this tribune. The four ministers, I repeat most responsiblely, and here is Mr. Zarkov, who have not supported and voted against this ratification. And no matter how many times you say it from this tribune, it can't be true, and I'm really asking you to apologize. For everything else you can interpret as much as you want, but the facts do not change them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u251	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Bikov, second line, Mrs. Angova, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u252	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Gazhev! I'd rather follow up on what Mr. Svilensky said. Are you convinced that this decision was taken at a regular meeting? It may be in a closed session where no decision has been made at all, because this is what happened with the expulsion of Russian diplomats, the suspension of the contracts with the BSP and all the other things in which the ministers of BSP were always against, and in the end it was always somewhere where no decision was made. So check your information and it might turn out that something more about the touch has passed this decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u253	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mrs. Angova for line three.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Gazhev, I understand why you don't want to look back and want to look forward. Your last sentence was: "Let's look forward and what will happen in the future with the new contracts. " - But let's think about why we couldn't actually negotiate a deferred payment and why we had to pay in advance. Because what did you do before 2019? Did you sleep? Or you were very comfortable when you went down GERB and collapsed, right, to make such a deal. Oh, yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Angova. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u256	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen replicating. The first two lines. I guess it was present because I'm looking at the transcript that was posted on the Council of Ministers' website in the legal information system. On the front point it says:.. for 10 votes one-some, against Kornelia Ninova, Georgi Gokov, Ivan Ivanov, Prodanov, Genchovska, Karadzhov, abstention..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There's no debate, there's nothing. That's what it's like in the transcript. If you have a problem with the transcript, then the Council of Ministers is lying. That's how the transcript is, the way it's uploaded. Wherever there is someone who has expressed a different opinion or voted in a different way, it's written in the transcript. There's nothing like that in the shorthand here. If you have a problem, please turn over to the Council of Ministers to correct their transcripts, because this is still in official document for now. The funny third line where we slept and so on. My attitude to the view in the future is for the simple reason that it was adopted by the National Assembly years ago, and so, by the way, is prepared by the team, which the commander of the Air Force Rumen Radev prepared. Until 8+8, the project is completed is not the decision of the National Assembly. Why were they paid in advance? I'm sorry, but you're gonna have to get acquainted with American legislation. The US legislation says that Bulgaria has not previously purchased large weapons complexes, by the way, the Commission minister mentioned that we have many purchased but not with national resources that were. For the first time, national resources are purchased by the United States armed forces in 2019, and then noted in a dossier which is held in the committee responsible for arms sales abroad. By the way, this goes through the permission of the Congress of the United States, which we have received, and based on this permission we have acquired the first eight. Maybe you should have said why on paper? Well, for the simple reason that no one keeps war platforms ready in storage, whether they're planes, ships, armor carriers, tanks or so on. They are produced after a contract is concluded. It makes sense, and that's why it's slowing down. By the way, even if there is a new treaty now, they will not be there either, because they are yet to be produced. Such is the logic of the production process with defence-related goods. Has it been right for years for Minister Nenchev of the Reformation bloc not to buy? I don't know. All the transactions that were made were under the FMS and FMF programme. By the way, they are two funds of the United States that we worked with, and there is a very detailed reference, by the way, how it happened. So no, we haven't slept! It's just that this is the first time we've ever bought a big arms deal. Yeah, it's a big eight aircraft with abilities and armaments isn't a small deal. So that's why it's done this way, and that's why at the moment the next governments will enjoy much better conditions than they used before, just because of this track record, as they say in English. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u257	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. The word is Mr. Anastasov. Then Mr. Kostadinov. Here you go. [[(Replicate from the place of the National Representative Stanislav Anastasov: Mr. Zafirov was before me.]] That's on my list. Okay, Mr. Anastasov. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u258	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let's calm down the passions and a routine ratification not to turn it into a geopolitical issue, which practically makes it much more important than the real one. Because today we don't really ratify new contracts. Today we change lines and deadlines in the old ones. We have the assurance from the experts of the Ministry of Defence that this does not affect the overall financial account, as well as the capabilities of the aircraft and the weapons, and even, according to the experts, builds on the latest ones. That's the good news. However, the bad news is that the contract or, more precisely, the contracts signed by the government of Borisov are not good and in them are not protected Bulgarian national interests, in the first place, and for a very simple reason that we all know very well in this Chamber. The Bulgarian State, honourable Members, was not and was not able to pay such huge sums together without having to reflect, of course, negatively on the budget or on other spheres of public life, which are equally poorly and insufficiently funded and financed over the years. And this fact has nothing to do with our allied loyalty, with our geopolitical orientation and so on, as the qualifications here have been heard. These aren't my conclusions. Just six years ago at a meeting of the Defence Committee I bet with the then military minister Nenchev that money for new planes in the state there is no need, and in this Chamber I think only one colleague there was then who attended this meeting. I'm sure he'll remember that we brought Gogol and Gorky into it and Steinbeck, if I'm not mistaken. The meeting was attended by the current President General Radev, then commander of the Air Force. And then, colleagues, there was talk, notice, for 2.3 billion. lv. the total modernisation of the Air Force and the Naval Forces, and time-delayed for six years, until 2022. Do you know who these words belong to? At then Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov, said at a meeting of the Budget Committee the same day. I assure you, no one thought of it then, that we were able to pay that kind of money together. And that is exactly what Borisov's cabinet did after three years and only for airplanes. The same amount only for airplanes and nearly a billion more for ships, not a few of them already paid. It's just the truth is that the previous government was trying to buy itself some more time. And yes, the problem is those contracts. Today's ratification is inevitable, and it is due to poorly scheduled and agreed clauses in the old contracts. Our parliamentary group, Mr. Ganchev or Ganev, excuse me...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u259	I'm Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u260	...will not support today's ratification. And this is a meaningful, consistent move of disagreement with the overall nature of this transaction even in its original form. However, I supported the Commission's bill, and I will do so today in this House as a sign of respect for the efforts of this political leadership of the Ministry of Defence to correct other people's mistakes, which we as a parliamentary group have warned about three years ago. I don't know where you were then, and before six I can't even think...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u261	We wanted your resignation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u262	...when I defended the Bulgarian national interest and the Bulgarian Air Force and their future. [[Breeding lines.]] I will also do so because I have a deep and meaningful understanding of the need for urgent solutions for the rescue of Bulgarian air aviation. She can no longer afford to waste a day in political struggles and idle talk from this tribune. I would like to stress once again the qualities of the purchased platform in no way. It's an excellent plane. I have no claim to the abilities and to the armaments, they are within the parameters laid down and adopted by the National Assembly. I also accept the arguments of our allies for the delay in view of the force majeure crisis and the resulting broken supply lines. I can't accept two things, however,.. the method of payment and the practical suspension for this reason of the third investment project... the battle machine of the land forces, which is the backbone of every modern army. This political responsibility must be taken over and made clear: there is no money for fighting machines because we paid some planes together. We did it without anyone asking us to. Or, let's just say we didn't make enough effort not to do it that way.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u263	You have about 40 seconds left, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u264	It is very important to make an additional clarification. The proposed in the Bill art. 6 is at odds with the Bulgarian Constitution, where the order for ratification of such treaties is clearly indicated, and it must be dropped between the two readings, which I think there is no need to tear shirts here from the stands. We had a consensus, we agreed in the Defence Committee and this will happen between the two readings. To conclude, unfortunately, fellow Members, this will not be the last ratification of these treaties. Any change in the lines on them due to delays, changes of suppliers, inflation processes and will therefore require new and new ones. This is how the original contracts were made, and now we have to comply with them. However, this also requires a working Parliament, and I, with this finding, give another argument about the need for one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u265	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Ganev, line one.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u266	I want a personal explanation. Two, Mr. Gadget. Let's do lines and dodges first and then the personal explanation, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Gadget, you? Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u267	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Zafirov, I didn't understand Gajev or Ganev, so I'm taking a line. So, yes, I assumed you meant Mr. Ganev. A few things. Now, you say that you are defending national interest and over the years the long debate on the acquisition of a new type of combat plane. I remember years ago you were against acquiring any used machines, that is, you wanted them to be new. Then you were against acquiring new F-16s. And I am curious to know what your position is as an expert or BSP................ what exactly should we have done to solve the problem of a new fighter? Okay, they're not used, they're not F-16. What do you want to happen? Because we never found out about these years anymore, most of them have been quoted since 2014, 2015 and so on, what exactly does BSP want? If he didn't want to use it, he didn't want new ones, what does he want us to keep the current ones, modernize them, buy another type of new aircraft? Tell us to know exactly what the position of BSP is, because it is important to know. Secondly, you have to say yes, you say there is no money for fighting machines. Yes, it is a fact, there is no money, because the Council of Ministers of Budget Updates, which we saw not a month ago, took the money for war machines. If you remember art. 5, there was 100 million at stake for war machines that the Council of Ministers offered to drop. Why? Because for more than a year and a half, the theme "new infantry fighting machines" is no-le-va. Nothing has happened since May 2021, and things have changed a lot since then, including price. Inflation has nothing to comment on, it is very clear to every citizen, sees it in his pocket, but this inflation is also in the prices of supplies of materials for war machines. A year and a half lost time can't be easy to catch up on. And yes, here is the question: where is this government of which you are part? What has ended in these seven months, since he was in power, on the project for a new war machine, updates, a new project, a new financial framework, new ideas where are they?! Or are we still at the analysis stage?! It's about the war machine. As for everything else, remember that you have been part of this government for seven months now, and a solid ruling party is BSP. In this regard, if you want to improve the Treaty, what have you done? You could have proposed, as we are currently improving the Treaty, so you could have proposed and in the terms of the Treaty update you are clearly not.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u268	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u269	Mr. Gazhev, there is no change in our position. We have always been about the parallel implementation of all investment projects with the allocation of funds for all three so that there is no favoritisation of a certain type of armed forces and things go parallel. That's what we protected him ten years ago, six years ago, and we're protecting him now. That's our position. If you're asking me about a position six years ago when we were saying that the 100% remaining capacity of the existing aircraft should be used, there is no change there. Since then, it has been six years.. 2029. The total exhaustion of this capacity is a waste of time, so this is the short answer. You, instead of really going out and saying human: colleagues, perhaps we made a mistake that we gave so much money with which a number of other problems could be solved, again in the Bulgarian Army, let them not open the issue here, because the issue of national security is far-reaching. It doesn't just affect planes. Now you're trying to find problems where they're not there. On the contrary, we have always been responsible for these matters. That's my answer to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u270	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. The word is Mr. Anastasov. [[The National Representative Tsoncho Ganev is going to the stands.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Anastasov, I'm returning you twice. A personal explanation from Mr. Ganev and then it's you. I'll give you 30 more seconds if you run out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u271	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Zafirov, you said things that I mentioned to you when I made a line to Mr. Gechev. You speak and act one thing in the Commission, here in this House you speak another. Regarding what you have said about us since the birth, I will tell you something that you do not know and do not remember, but when this was put on the agenda in the respective Parliament, we were protesting before the Ministry of Defence. Where were you? When he came to the hall this madness, we were at the front and protested again........................................................................................ Let's just say what it was then you were just in lines and in fairy tales here against. Now you can see how opposed you are because in this Parliament you manage seven months to do something about it? No! On the contrary, you get up here and say that you're for you. You say you're in! Moreover, again, we from the ARCE a few weeks ago issued a signal to the Attorney General precisely about this deal, which you are very helpfully silent and concealing as governors at the moment. Again, you do not say anything because you know very well what the process is for this deal, because the process had reached almost the signing of a production contract in Bulgaria of Gripen. At the last moment the government of GERB with Karakachanov is insulting, it is not a Mr. with Karakachanov left and landed at one cargo airport and went to buy another year of government. Yes, you were tearing your shirts here, conditionally speaking, from this tribune, and then you came to rule. Anything you want to do about it? Nothing! Nothing at all! He honours Professor Gechev he said about the economic justification I am finishing...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u272	You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u273	He said about the economic justifications, all that everyone in this room knows is what everyone in this room knows. Again, we should look at the works, not the words. With you, it's just words. Some people in your group will most likely apply deeds against this thing that you will support in words.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u274	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Stanislav Anastasov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! I would say again that I do not know which once again that we have had to have a political debate here and not allow at least those who have clearly defined ourselves to deviate from the subject. Yes, among us we have people who are experts, financiers, military, some of them teach my respect. It was good to stick to this, because with each exit we give the opportunity to make wrong interpretations. I am afraid that if someone has seen the surrender of the meeting today, it will be the wrong impression that the Bulgarian Parliament... I do not know whether it is actually wrong that the Bulgarian Parliament is hesitant in terms of its Euro-Atlantic orientation, because that is what is at the moment. What a political signal we are sending because we are politicians in this room. Nobody here is some guy in the military command, and he's got a defense minister as a political person to talk about these things. We as politicians had an absolutely unambiguous signal to send away. While rebirth sent out their unambiguous political signal, it seems to me that some of the rulers have sent quite ambiguous signals of what they intend to do, why they intend to do and what their orientation is. Colleagues, I speak very seriously and with concern, and especially when it comes to that we are doing this in a situation where there is a war in the region and everyone is looking to arm themselves in every possible way on both sides, we are currently having a waver of debate here where we are, what we are, and what we are doing. Otherwise we understood a lot of things, understood that we do not know American legislation, understood that we are not sure in the Chamber whether it is a treaty government with government, government to government, which is what we are talking about, which deprives us of the need to make technical debates. The worse, however, is I wonder to Mr. Ivanov, why did he allow in this situation, when there is this picture, this item to be included on the agenda? Yes, it should be voted as quickly as possible. In the fastest way, Minister, I also call you for the second squadron to conclude the negotiations and bring them into this National Assembly, because I hope that there is still a Euro-Atlantic majority here that can vote on them, but for example in a situation in which a government is being assembled, and here I am looking at Mr. Ivanov, we understand that the mandate holder has some considerations, and not a little. Even worse, we knew he was going to vote against it. Now, let me ask you, how do you make a government in this situation and how valuablely oriented this government is, and what will it be doing?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u276	And the mandate is common!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u277	And the mandate is to, yes, here remind me of your colleagues, your joint mandate with the BSP, who will soon vote against this and will send out an unambiguous political signal outside where we are and what we are dealing with. I'm really wondering about you. I wouldn't bring it in if I were you. I say this the most practically, even though I am from the DPS and of course we would have imported it to go the fastest way, but we wouldn't have let such a debate happen in this House. At the very least, if I were you, I would close it down, have a technical debate, so that these unambiguous messages wouldn't come out. Otherwise, our position is clear, and it is also clear how we will vote. Clearly, when re-arming is underway, there will be a lot of changes to the contracts, because there are also priorities in arming, and there are a lot of jobs that are expensive, there are some who need guns more. Thank God, we have NATO partners in the region who can also guarantee us the protection of airspace. However, this does not mean that we have no commitment to collective defence. And we need it really fast, I don't even know if it's 2037, but the sooner we order the next part we need for the squadron, the faster it'll come. Another thing, respect for the Minister for being here for the debate. However, I remember, now I do not want to compare with previous ministers and presidents who were very often absent, but for this debate they were here in the Chamber. There should be a clear signal from the Prime Minister where we are. It was he who should not have allowed the majority behind him to split and send signals that he was moving in many different directions. That's what's disturbing about today's debate. And that's why I wish we didn't have to go into details, not go into technical details, because it finally turned out that thanks to them, one of the major system parties would vote against. How do we explain this to the voters with the general mandate? I'm very interested. Frankly, I don't want to be in your shoes, but you put yourself in this place, so I'm not guilty.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u278	Get to the point, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u279	So on the subject we will vote for, you can be sure. You'll hear a few more arguments from my colleagues in a moment. But what we are going to produce here today as a political signal is that the Euro-Atlantic majority in this National Assembly as a result of this fine government is shrinking, and even before we have gone to elections. The conclusions I leave to you who should, will make them, of course, but this really is a bad day for Bulgaria. The way this ratification will happen, it will pass, I am convinced it must pass, I repeat, but the way it will happen will leave us a bitter taste that some people who have long had a clear position already have another position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u280	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Kostadinov has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u281	Here we are talking about ratification of a treaty, however, it is actually much more right to talk about ratification of a dictatorship. Because the treaty is something that benefits both sides, and in this particular case this dictator benefits only the country that imposes it on Bulgaria. But these dictators aren't from yesterday. Starting in 1919 and signing the New York dictatorship, we passed in 1947. The signing of the Paris dictatorship after World War II passed in 2004 and the treaty with which Bulgaria was integrated into NATO's systems. By the way, in this regard I would like to mention several numbers because, when we talk about all these facts, there is also political, expert speaking, now I want to mention a few things that are from the statistics and which concern the state of the Bulgarian Army before and after NATO, because in 2004, we entered NATO, 2014 there is the last public statistics that has come out, true, of what exactly armament our army has. In 1989 Bulgaria had 108 thousand. Armed forces, in 2004, the year we entered NATO, were 45,000. As of 2014, there were 26 thousand. Now I'm not gonna tell you how much it is and I'm not gonna say it because it doesn't speak well for us. Our tanks in 1989 were 2200, in 2004 were 560, in 2014, eight years ago, were 80. Our armored machines were 4000 in 1989, in 2004 were 1230, in 2014. * 280. Heavy artillery systems 1450 in 1989, 762 in 2004, 96 in 2014. Our warships were 120 in 1989, 62 in 2004, 6 in 2014. The battle planes, because now we're talking about planes, there's 230 of them, and there's another 250 here, which are teaching and auxiliary, but only the battle planes are 230, in 2004 there are 72 of them, in 2014 there are 16 of them. Battle helicopters are 43, including storm helicopters, as we had only then, in 2004 there were 18, in 2014 there were 6 units. Short-range rockets in 1989 24 launch engines, now we have none. Mid-range rockets 8 launches in 1989, we don't have one now. By the way, the eradication of the tactical missile complexes of Bulgaria "Earth-area" with small and medium range was one of the many conditions for Bulgaria to enter NATO. In other words, we disarmed ourselves to get in. There's talk of re-arming here. What kind of re-arming are we talking about? In 2014, when Bulgaria turned 10 years in NATO, the future President Radev along with more generals came to a hearing in parliament to talk about the tragic state of Bulgarian aviation. Then the future president even resigned because he said that we would soon not be able to fulfil our basic obligations under the Constitution, which the Bulgarian Army has, namely to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. It was then stated that it would be acted in the direction of re-arming. Eight years later, we don't have a single new plane. The deal with the Gripens was stopped, signed this incredibly disgraceful for Bulgaria dictated for the American drawings, which we have not even seen. He's very right, by the way, Mr. Gechev, we haven't even seen the blueprints. We've only seen airplanes on the Internet. And really, the situation is now the following.. we have a practically disarmed army, and when it comes to national security, here ministers, including here the sitting, of a question when we commented on the situation of the Bulgarian army and the status of the US military in our country, and the fact that for the first time since the third Bulgarian state exists, we have a foreign military presence, constantly, with foreign bases, he and others like to say: . From this point of view, we cannot support this dictatorship. We're gonna fight him all the way. By the way, there is comment here, and the Commission has said how it will support the extension of MiG-29's flight resources, but it will not be in Russia. A former minister and he so wanted to extend in Poland, and as a result he is now a client of the prosecution. But this is the least that can happen because it is one thing to be accused of a corrupt deal, another to blame you for conscious sabotage of the system of national security, which is not only this dictatorship, but also absolutely all other decisions taken in the sphere of security and defence in Bulgaria. That is why we will not support this dictatorship at the age of old. We will not support it just now, but there was a comment here regarding where we were when this decision was voted, we were outside the parliament and we protested, Mr. Zafirov. And not only in front of parliament, we also protested before the Ministry of Defence, when it was another odystic element of Bulgarian political fauna, I will not even say its name because I do not want to stain the parliamentary tribune with such stombe patriots. [[the President signals that time has run out]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u282	The weather, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u283	Yeah, thanks, I'm graduating. We cannot support this dictatorship and we will do everything possible for the people who make the decisions and who are these main defenders and carriers of this idea, both from the previous management of GERB and the so-called Patriots, as well as the current ones, from the new GERB and everything else related to it, to bear the political and criminal responsibility for these criminal acts and omissions. Thank you. [[Private applause from AGE.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u284	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Next statement Mr. Ibryamov, you have the floor. Before Mr. Ibryamov or after? Maybe let Mr. Ibryamov pass? Or if you want to go to the finals, Mr. Zakov. Mrs. Atanasova is also recorded. Before I give you the floor. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u285	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister! Colleagues, I personally did not expect that the Law of ratification itself would cause such a strong debate. Essentially, as my colleague to my surprise, as a matter of fact, my colleague Zafirov said, this is not a new contract. We voted on this treaty in the distant 2019 when we bid on F-16 Block 70. And with this ratification, we are making an amendment, as mentioned by previous statements, in ammunition, in the missiles we will receive, the materials and services we will receive on this supply, as well as on the multifunctional information distribution system or the so-called joint tactical radio system and related support and equipment. This is done for clarification in order to improve the performance of the contract. And here already the Ministry of Defense makes these proposals with the content of the signed contract itself. I suppose the Minister will explain in greater detail. It became clear that the signing of the amendment contract and Appendix 1 itself did not increase the value of the 2019 Treaty and did not require additional contributions to the amount already paid by us on behalf of our country. However, major changes in the Treaty of Amendment and Supplement can be grouped and explained in several sub-paragraphs: - updating the configuration of aeroplanes and their equipment; - adjustment to a different extent the time limits for ensuring the relevant component and products; - change of some of the main suppliers of defence products and services due to technological or market changes. Additional lines have been added that reflect the specific requirements of the delivery programme itself. And the signed International Treaty for Amendment and Supplement, it is very important what I will stress, does not diminish and narrow the requirements for the capabilities of the weapons system F-16 Block 70. The embarrassment of the bill itself was art. 6, to the extent that it was to be established, it is withdrawn, or withdrawn, for the purpose of operational and effective management of the funds under the contracts concluded for the acquisition of multi-target fighters, the Minister shall have and be empowered to conclude additions and amendments without further ratification. It was in this part that we would already violate the basic law and, above all, the democratic principles enshrined in the Constitution. At this stage, colleagues, the sovereign of government is still the National Assembly, and the Council of Ministers is its instrument. In the conditions and absence of a National Assembly, what may soon be there, the minister can make whatever decisions he wants, and it is completely legal, by changing the parameters of the plane itself, if we had allowed this thing. I'm talking about the technical parameters. This, of course, is not an attitude towards the minister himself, but the important thing is that this thing will be withdrawn. Overall, since many different arguments were heard, to recall, ladies and gentlemen, for almost two years the deal was prepared on the purchase of the fighters in the Republic of Bulgaria, and it was not by whom four ministries were involved, the Military Intelligence took part, the participation of the SANS and especially the experts from the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. The decision that was voted on in 2019 was based precisely on those principles which they had laid down in the purchase and conclusion of this international treaty, and it was ratified in the National Assembly. I am impressed that colleagues on the left today are speaking in the direction that this was not a good contract for the country. The same statement made 2019, exactly the same with the same arguments, and not so dissatisfied that we bought new fighter fighters, and you see, the price was not good. Unfortunately, the colleague who got acquainted, since the documents were with a griff, is not among the MPs from BSP. I have personally familiarized myself with the offers that the state of Bulgaria then received on the basis of documents sent and a request for tenders. The F-16 Block 70 that the state will receive is the best. He's really got the best skills and the best price. With the deal then for F-16 it turns out that Bulgaria is buying security mostly. Maybe I should call it cementing the fragile ties with a leading country in NATO, and that's the United States. Mostly that the opponents of the deal itself call into question the geopolitical choice of Bulgaria. This was also highlighted by colleague Anastasov. In summary, knowing the rhetoric of the usual suspects and their new associates, the lack of political consensus on the deal is not surprising in this ratification. What is really worrying is the persistence of certain political system parties in a NATO country, in a European country, to speak against combat capabilities in order for Bulgaria to become a truly full member of the Atlantic Pact. From a legal point of view of the comments on the debate and these, above all geopolitical, and it has more weight than military technical aspects, honourable Members, with the naked eye we see that securing the security of the Bulgarian airspace cannot be compared to a routine business transaction. The United States is the most powerful state in NATO, the defence union of which Bulgaria has been a member relatively recently since 2004. Through the deal our country buys, as I said, security, stability, full participation and I will repeat again, cementing its fragile ties with the state of the Pact. We are currently among the freest countries in quotes, of course, which do not fully cover the Alliance's requirements for at least 2% of gross domestic product. In general, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support this ratification. However, when it is necessary for Euro-Atlantic political parties to show a face, this is what happens by voting on the important laws for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u286	And thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Hey, guys, any lines? [[National Representative Jevdet Chakarov wants the floor for a declaration.]] As soon as we're done with the lines and the dots, if there are any. Are there any lines, coworkers? I won't. Please come in for a statement, Professor Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u287	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are making this declaration again on the occasion of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan, in order to bring to your attention the problem that the executive and the ruling majority do not meet the requirements for preparing and implementing the legislative changes relating to the initiation of its implementation. We are also making this declaration to justify the accusations of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Minister of Innovation and Growth that Parliament will be responsible if the necessary legislative changes are not made and the implementation of the Plan is delayed. These legislative changes are not being implemented not because Parliament does not want to do its job, but because the government, honourable Members, has not prepared them and has not brought them into parliament. We ask if there are currently legislative initiatives tabled in this respect?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u288	There is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u289	They should have been moved, Mr. Gurov. This is 22. In the public domain, both we and the people hear only about KPCONPI and the judiciary. Nothing else is real. I will now tell you the data that are up-to-date data from the Information System for Management and Monitoring of European Union Funds in Bulgaria (ISUN 2020) in order to make the second payment under the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan on 31 December 2022. Bulgaria must have fulfilled 66 stages and goals, of which 20 are directly related to a change of legislation. So far, Mr. Ghurov, only three stages and goals with which the adoption of a law of the Law on Employment Promotion have been implemented. At least 19 legislative changes should be made. Among them is the change in the Energy Act in several different directions. The first concerns changes relating to the regulation of the concept of energy poverty for the purposes of treating energy poor households in the implementation of measures and projects to increase energy efficiency. The second group changed the possibility of improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy projects according to the model of the energy service companies ECCO. The third group changed the reform of the electricity markets, including wholesale, balancing and retail trade, with the intention of continuing the process of liberalising the electricity market, of continuing the integration of the electricity market, of removing the role of NEK as a public supplier and of removing quotas for the regulated market. I do not want to comment here on how careful and precise, objective, concerned we should be when dealing with these legislative changes, because the subject is very sensitive, and against the background of quality and standard of living here we may not achieve an effect, but cause very serious damage with very serious consequences. I ask the question where are these legislative changes? It is a fact that they have not been submitted to parliament, but at least it is necessary to provide information on what stage their preparation is at. If parliament disbands because of early elections, will the government do its job and leave prepared projects to subsequent rulers? If the current government and parliament continue to work, let us know what stage of preparation they are at, so that we are correct towards the people and really at this difficult time to give them a hand. There is a need for legislative changes to the Energy Act, as well as other laws, because of the need to introduce a National Legislative Framework to support the rapid deployment of electricity storage. These projects are not in parliament. Other serious legislative changes concern the Energy Act again, but also the amendment to the Water Act and the concessions Act. They are related to the introduction of legislation on regulation for the construction of a new type of power plants, the use of geothermal energy. We asked where these projects were. No one answered us. It is planned to make two major changes to the Commercial Law. The first concerns the amendment of insolvency and restructuring procedures for commercial companies. The second concerns the introduction into the Bulgarian legislation of an entirely new legal form of a trading company. On 13 July the Council of Ministers adopted amendments to the Commercial Law, but the project was not submitted to parliament. A major change is also intended to be made in the area of registers and, in particular, in the Cadastral and Property Register Act. It also provides for amendments to the Civil Registration Act, special laws relating to the official certification by the administration of the circumstances entered in the National Electronic Register of Civil Status Acts. An amendment of the Law on Electronic Governance in relation to registers relating to the implementation of the powers of the bodies of the executive and of the judiciary is envisaged. There should also be legislative changes to award a new service of common interest to the Bulgarian Post Office. There are also amendments to the Biodiversity Act, the Law on Legal Aid, the Law on Mediation, the Law on Floor Property Management and the Law on Public Procurement. There must be legislative changes to the legal framework relating to the protection of persons who are sending signals of violations of legislation, including signals of irregularities and corruption. There must also be a change in the Penal Code relating to offenses insult and slander in order to limit the possibility of seeking criminal liability in private order in relation to publications of journalists and whistleblowers. A reform of the Commission must be carried out to counter corruption and to take away illegally acquired property and to prepare and adopt a whole new law on this. Last but not least, a whole new Law on personal bankruptcy must be drawn up and adopted. Where are all these laws? At present, the Council of Ministers has prepared and released for public discussion only one draft law.................................................................................................. Not the Council of Ministers, but lawmakers from the ruling majority submitted amendments related to the Cadaster Act and the property register. The regulation in the Commercial Law of a new trading company with a new legal form is the reform of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, namely a whole new bill for the State Agency for the Registrys of 18 May of this year, the draft IDC of the Commercial Law of 15 June of this year, a whole new draft of the Anti-Corruption Act of 9 June of this year. However, this approach of the ruling coalition is controversial because it deprives the general public of the right to take part in the public discussion of the bills concerning the measures of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. No less of a problem is that the laws tabled by the lawmakers are sometimes with controversial content. Honourable Members, this is the fact that we are preparing for the implementation of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. It is evident from the unfinished work of the government and the ruling majority, not the parliament. Dear Mr. Chairman, this makes an even more pressing hearing in the parliament of the Prime Minister in resignation Cyril Petkov and the Minister of Finance in resignation Asen Vassilev............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ lv. After expressing our concern about our previous declaration and knowing that our neighbouring countries are almost finishing the first tranche of the funds brought to them, Bulgaria is the only country, honourable colleagues and honourable fellow citizens, which has not received anything so far and nothing has been realized. And we are the poorest country in terms of GDP and standard of living. So all of this is a great imperative in front of all of us, and that is why we demand to hold this hearing, to see where it has gone, to continue effective work really this plan to meet the objectives for which it was created and, as intended, the means to enter Bulgaria as it is presented. But we're not very optimistic about the fact that we've never been heard before. Mr. President, I appeal to you to comply with the laws and regulations in particular on the activities of the National Assembly so that this hearing is conducted and measures are taken, to see what the information is, to all of us to join together and to do the necessary work to speed up the progress process for the implementation of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova is listed for speaking. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, at the beginning I will only thank Mr. Chakarov for presenting all the necessary bills.....................there are less than 22 of them, at least that is how I counted them, which should be discussed by the parliament if someone from the government writes them and imports them. I'm sorry my colleagues didn't take notes at least, but that's their problem. It's a shame it turns out to be a problem for the state. On the subject now. Colleagues, we have been discussing a matter for several hours now that I thought it was necessary for people with expertise to speak and it will be resolved in a much shorter order. Because, yes, since 2019 the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria ratified the Treaty on the acquisition of new fighter planes F-16, Block-70. The amendment and the bill presented to us, of course, will receive the support of the GERB-SDS parliamentary group and this will probably not surprise anyone. However, I am observing a few things within the hours of discussion in plenary. First of all, I'm seeing a split coalition personality. The owner already seems to be rethinking Bulgaria's direction, including geopolitical, including on this deal. These were some of the first speeches. Secondly, all exercises or accusations on the name of the party GERB and Boyko Borisov personally, as well as of General Konstantin Popov, I think it is pointless. Yes, that decision was made by our government. This decision was taken within the framework of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, where GERB and its coalition partners had a majority, and if such decisions are imposed in the future, we will again confirm the importance of Bulgaria's geopolitical orientation for our parliamentary group and party. However, I, colleagues, would like to remind some of the groups, some of their representatives, are distanced from the opinion of their parliamentary group, and others who are declared as prominent Euro-Atlantics, and we have now heard them question the decision-making process in 2019, arguing that GERB then wanted to buy back time. Absurd argument! In 2019 GERB managed in a 4-year successful mandate. [[Shouts from "BSP for Bulgaria": "Auuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu!"]] Yes, in a 4-year successful term. And not someone else, but because the Constitution requires a government to vote in 4 years and to have regular parliamentary elections.. GERB is in opposition at the moment, but to remind that immediately after the 4-year successful term GERB was once again the first political power. In this sense, the argument "buying time" is categorically not relevant, and I ask that this not be speculated. I would like to recall the date 15 February 2022. Some of my colleagues probably remember that a National Security Advisory Council was held at the time. I believe that parliamentary groups and their guides should be aware of what decisions of the Advisory Council for National Security, which we have taken unanimously, have been implemented several months after it has been carried out. In order not to be unspoken, I would say that the President's Advisory Council decided: The executive power to propose and the legislative body to discuss changes in the regulations allowing: speeding up procedures relating to the modernisation of the armed forces and maintenance of the available weapons and equipment, overcoming the lack of personnel and raising the prestige of the military profession. The executive power to develop a prioritized resource-backed and consistent with the trends in the development of modern technologies investment plan-programme by 2032, in line with the objectives and plans for the development of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Council of Ministers should analyse the possibility of updating the National Defence Expenditure Increase Plan adopted in 2017 to 2% of the gross domestic product of the Republic of Bulgaria so that the final goal can be achieved in 2023. I just want to remind you that we are July 20, 2022. The Council of Ministers should provide financial resources for the maintenance of existing weapons and equipment with priority to prevent loss of capabilities for control of the air and sea space of the Republic of Bulgaria. The executive power to take action to overcome the lag and speed up the acquisition of new equipment under contracts already concluded to modernise the Air and Naval Forces, as well as to launch the Land Troops Modernization Project. The next item also concerns the activities of the Council of Ministers "the creation of a targeted investment fund to modernise the Armed Forces." The next item is also.. steps to include Bulgaria as a full member of the NATO Innovation Fund and full use of participation in NATO's innovation accelerator, uncalled "Diana." Why am I telling you all this? Because, first of all, to remind the Chamber that by consensus, the Advisory Council for National Security has taken these decisions. Secondly, to remind you that none of these decisions seem to have been implemented. In this sense, I would like to say that Minister Zakov is not at fault because the Council of Ministers has a Prime Minister, a super vice-, a giga-, a mega prime minister of Asen Vassilev, whom I hear you are proposing for the second time a Prime Minister of your new coalition. There is also a deputy prime minister who is the leader of the largest and most mandateed party BSP in the current situation, and none of what has been decided at the Advisory Council on February 15th is a fact. Will anyone take responsibility, honourable Members, for example for these decisions, which are not a fact, and for the failure to comply with all the opinions of the National Security Advisory Council, which is headed by President Rumen Radev? I'm not sure I'll get an answer, most likely. So many new dividing lines have been placed in this debate today on another axis: are we a loyal member of the Alliance, are we fulfilling our contracts, what contracts are we fulfilling? Even one of your colleagues, the leader of your parliamentary group, the mandate-holder of Svilenski, said there is no such people and our people are from fools. I apologize for quoting it, but you, Mr. Chairman, didn't react.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u292	What if it was me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u293	I think, honourable Members, that it is strange at all many, many years after Bulgaria has chosen its path to have such a debate again. I believe that it is appropriate now for the National Assembly to vote on this ratification, so that, within the deadline until 15 August, as stated in the Treaty on the entry into force of the signed Treaty by the Council of Ministers with Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Cornelia Ninova, we will enable not only the Treaty to be implemented, but also Bulgaria to confirm its Euro-Atlantic orientation. Thank you. Minister Zakov, our parliamentary group will support you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u294	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Are there any lines, colleagues? Are you here for a line, Mr. Simov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u295	How much time do we have?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u296	Do they actually have time from the BSP group? No, you don't have time, Mr. Simov. I'm sorry! Colleagues, are there any lines to this statement? I won't. Are there any other speeches? [[National Representative Borislav Gutsanov wants a reply.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u297	You don't have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u298	Are there any other speeches? I'm calling off the discussion. I give the floor to Minister Zakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u299	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start with a confession that when I get back to the Department of Defense, I won't punish the lawyers who offered art. 6 and § 1 in general, and I will congratulate them for their vision. Yes, it may not be in line with the Constitution, but it does not correspond, only that the debate I have been listening to so far proves why the lawyers were directed precisely at this text. There are many amendments to this treaty. Slovakia, which entered into a contract six months before us, has already made four amendments - none of them, by the way, went to ratification through parliament again. We're about to conclude, hopefully, a second contract, for the second eight F-16s. At some point we will have a situation where we will have two contracts that will be amended, because they are therefore long-term contracts a situation in which it is possible to enter into today's discussion literally every week, but it is actually about almost technical amendments to this treaty. The political decision was taken in 2019 by the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Today, we are not debating whether this treaty is necessary or not, the National Assembly ruled on this issue in 2019. By the way, it also ruled on the necessity of the second eight and the decision clearly states that the second eight are also necessary. In this sense, I call for the next such amendments to focus the debate on what exactly the amendments are and not to use similar situations to launch the political ones on the back of the Bulgarian Army, on the back of the Bulgarian Army's abilities. You know that my professional experience has passed the last 20 years in the diplomatic service and it is not a coincidence that the diplomatic service has often been compared with a firm of institutionality and sustainability in decision-making in the area of security policy in Bulgaria, not only in Bulgaria, in every normal democratic state, and any decision relating to the security sector, whether it concerns the Ministry of Defence or another part of the security sector, it is necessary to have sustainability, consistency and continuity in the decisions taken. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u300	Colleagues, please be quiet! Mr. Dobrev, please, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u301	Yeah, obviously national security isn't that important, other debates are more important.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u302	Continue, Mr. Minister, please don't enter into a debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u303	It was about the sustainability of the decisions taken, and in this sense again: we are not debating today whether a decision has been made in the case of a government of GERB, whether it be the government of BSP, of the NDSV, of a triple coalition, of a quadruple coalition. When we talk about security, about the security of Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens, security has no political coloration. With regard to some of the details that were mentioned in the discussion, I will allow myself to take an attitude, as some manipulative ones have been said, I would say some hybrid ones. And the main thesis that's been built for years is that in fact this is a contract for blueprints. Well, when you go to buy the most ordinary car from a dealer, you'll wait, right now, even now, especially over a year, especially if it's a high-tech car, maybe a year and a half, two years, and here it's an extermination technique. There is no contract for a new, newly manufactured defence equipment to be concluded with similar equipment available. I would just like to recall that the Treaty on Multifunctional Patrol Ships, which, by the way, is an example of a proper contract and proper design planning, has also been concluded for ships which have not been produced By the way, even for the ships the factory that currently manufactures them existed, but the technological line did not exist and it was delivered by the German manufacturer only after the contract was concluded, assembled in the Bulgarian factory and only then began production. The first ship will be ready in two years, only I didn't hear any criticism on this treaty and there's nothing to it. Why are we making this decision? Well, we're taking it because the Bulgarian Army is about to move into the 21st century at another technological level, and this treaty will pull all the other contracts at the same technological level, and it is the highest. With regard to the Air Force and the F-16 Block 70. We are not talking about the fifth generation aircraft, which is the last word of technology, but we are talking about a fourth generation aircraft that is above the remaining fourth generation, as some of its systems are a derivative of F-35 for example. Where is the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers? Well, the money's in a trust account in the Federal Reserve, and we know where it is. Mr. Gechev in the Budget Committee even said that there is transparency in this information that every Bulgarian citizen can know where the money is at the moment, what is spent by them, at what moment. We'll get interest on that money. I don't think the same applies to the money of Bulgarian citizens in other historical moments in our history.. they are lost and we don't know where they are, we actually know, but it may not be convenient to admit where they are. With regard to compensation, as there was a specific question, I will answer. I am aware of the statement made by my predecessor Minister Stefan Yanev that compensation will be sought as far as I know, since I have read a memorable note. That question has been put on the American side. However, ladies and gentlemen of the parliament, in the treaties government, which is the first such treaty that we conclude for the Bulgarian Armed Forces, there is no way there will be the text for compensation because there is no government to ask for compensation from government, there is no such scheme in the world. Compensations can be sought under a contract government company. Private, state, it does not matter. However, there are other forms in which we can be compensated for this delay, and we will be. The Lockheed Martin company has these levers, the American administration also has these levers. And under the second treaty, you will see that there is again concrete assistance that we will receive with the approval of Congress, as by the way, there is such assistance approved under the first contract, as well as additional funds for the purchase of tricoordinated radar for the Bulgarian armed forces - money that will not come out of the Bulgarian taxpayer. If this ratification is not accepted, what will happen? I'm gonna take the liberty of fixing Mr. Gajev here, or I'm gonna fill him in. We're not just gonna leave the old 2019 modifications behind. It's obviously been three years, in such a high-tech product there's no way there's no change in software, in hardware, it would be weird if there wasn't, I'd be worried about that, frankly. The problem is, if we don't accept this ratification, there won't be a plane. These are normal long-term contract practices, and if they do not happen, the aircraft cannot continue to be produced on this assembly line for which the new software, the new hardware are already set up. So, Mr. Gechev, we'll get planes, but we have to do this ratification and then we'll have planes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u304	When do we get them?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u305	We'll get them when they're manufactured, and it's clear when. As regards the modernisation of the armed forces. Let us make it clear that for the last one year and a little change of three ministers in the Ministry of Defence, one official and two regular, this is likely to happen in the future. And here the National Assembly, including future assembly, future parliaments, future MPs will be responsible for the continuity in the re-arming of the Bulgarian Army, of course, and the next governments. However, Bulgaria is still a parliamentary republic. Mrs. Atanasova, you have listed many important decisions from the National Security Advisory Council on 15 February this year. Some are executed, others are facing entry into the Council of Ministers, for a third needs much more time, and a functioning parliament in the future. What we have done in the last four months is almost five, in the Ministry of Defence, to work on these exact decisions, and we will leave it to the next cabinet so that it can continue to carry them out and move them forward. They are extremely important for the Bulgarian Army, but also for the security of our citizens. And in conclusion, let me draw attention to some of the elements mentioned by the MP Kostadin Kostadinov. Mr. Kostadinov, I have also served in the Bulgarian Army before NATO, I suppose you too, of course, and I would ask you the question: were you satisfied. How did you like the food? How did you like the base where you served? Honestly, I didn't like it very much. Did they pay you, did they give you a salary? [[Noise and lines.]] I don't. Otherwise, we can talk a lot about what it was before and after, only we need to compare to how much percentage of gross domestic defence product has been separated before entry into NATO, how much we have spent after entry into NATO and how much we have now, because that is three periods. And when we were putting together an army set of one huge percentage, whose account was that? At the expense of what other systems in society? Let's do this analysis and then talk about numbers before and after. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Drenchev for recognising the importance of Bulgaria's membership in NATO. Obviously, we have no differences in geopolitical orientation in the Bulgarian Parliament and perhaps this is the good news from today. And I am sure that on this basis we can make the most important decisions for the rearming of the Bulgarian army, including what we need to take today, those we need to take yet, because it will not only be F-16, will be the fighting machines, the tricoordinate radars and many more. Thank you. [[(Applause from.. We continue the Change.....................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u306	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For the procedure, Mr. Hamid. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, please rest for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u308	Fifteen minutes off, guys. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u309	Honourable Members, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a bill for the ratification of an international agreement on Amendment and Supplement No 1 to a Letter with tender and acceptance of the offer (LOA) BU-D-SAB 70 and related maintenance, international contract (LOA) BU-D-AAA. Supplement to the Law on the ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-D-SAB Vote 190 MPs: 164, against 23, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, re-vote at the request of the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection. Vote 197 MPs: 167, against 28, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Gajev, for procedure? Here you go. Colleagues, I'm asking for silence in the Chamber and take your seats for a little more patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u310	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making the procedure for the period between the readings of the newly adopted ratification law to be three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u311	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Hristo Gajev. Vote 190 MPs: 168, against 21, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda, namely: HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH IN THE RESPONSIBILITY ASENA SERBOSION OF THE BASIS 110 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COVID-19 COVID19 CHANGED EMPLOYMENT. You're welcome, Professor Chorbanov, to present the subject at the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u312	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! The subject is extremely up-to-date and concerning, you can say, the whole population of many aspects, both in terms of business and in terms of people's lives in a very broad aspect. We receive hundreds of inquiries every day, which concern mostly the state's ability to respond adequately to everything that is happening and, to the greatest extent, to the ability of health authorities to make expert decisions rather than political decisions. I would very much agree with Professor Mira Kozhuharova, with her comment from today on the issue to which the decisions that will be taken in terms of dealing, let us say, with this new wave, we are yet to comment on perhaps today to what extent this should be adopted as a wave, to what extent the risk to the population, to what extent the Rules on the implementation of these measures are adequate to the situation and what concerns society, is to have some predictability for the near future, which will determine to a very large extent the way people live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u313	Thank you, Mr. Chorbanov. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your exhibition. Colleagues, I'm asking you to be quiet in this room, after all. If you would like to speak in groups, please do so outside the room. Here you are, Mrs. Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u314	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Chorbanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to World Health Organization data, the number of newly infected individuals with SARS-CoV-2 has increased for the fifth consecutive week in the world. There is the beginning of another wave of COVID-19, with 5.7 million cases of coronavirus infection reported worldwide for the last reporting week between 4 and 10 July 2022. Calculated in relative value, this represents an increase of 6% compared to the previous week. Of the samples surveyed in the period 10 June (July 10, 2022), from the global scale we are now transferring to the country, 159 848 samples have been found that the variant of anxiety, the so-called variant of anxiety, omicron continues to dominate. Subvariants BA2 and BA2.12.1 show a decline in their distribution unlike BA 4 and BA 5 which increase their share. The latest data from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in the last three or four weeks in the territory of the European Union indicate an increase in the number of new cases of COVID-19. Towards the end of the 27th week, this is the week that I quoted a few moments ago, 4 "July 10," the relative share of the cases of COVID-19 in persons over 65 has grown in 23 out of 27 Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area. This is a 23% growth compared to the previous week. Increase in the number of infected...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u315	Mrs. Serbenova, I'm so sorry, just for a moment. Colleagues, I ask you very much to bring them out of the room because the noise is incredible. It's just that you can't hear anything, you don't realize, and the phone calls are out of the room, please. Here you are, Mrs. Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u316	Thank you. The increase in the number of infected persons over 65 years has been observed for five consecutive weeks in nine countries, for six weeks in two countries. The increased incidence of cases in adults has also led to an increase in cases with a more severe course of coronavirus infection in them, which, of course, is no surprise, as these are usually people who have many accompanying diseases. As regards the reported deaths of COVID-19, there was no upward trend in the European Union. In Bulgaria, at yesterday's date 19 July 2022, the 14-day incidence of COVID-19 in the country was 188.95 confirmed cases of 100 000 population. As of 24 June 2022 in the country again we have seen an increase in the number of confirmed cases, with the estimated increase in the number of newly infected persons for the last 14 days is currently 127%. The weekly positive of the studies carried out was 21,34% and increased as last in the country such a share, but here we are not talking about absolute values, but there is a big difference for relative values, but a similar proportion in relative values was observed in February, the positives of the studies carried out and the number of studies carried out on a weekly basis of 100 thousand people. Again, of course, there is a big difference, as in the previous wave of COVID-19, between morbidity in the individual areas. It varies across the country's territory from 44.7 cases per 100 000 population in Veliko Tarnovo, for example, to 299.8 cases per 100 000 population in Sofia. In three areas the value of the indicator is above the average for the country. These are Burgas, Varna and Sofia-city. All age groups are affected, but again, as with the previous wave, the highest 14-day incidence is partly due to the reasons I pointed out earlier, the persons of 70, 79 and over 80, followed by those in the 60-year period. The number of hospitalized persons is growing logically. As of 19 July 2022, i.e. yesterday, 740 persons were admitted to hospital care facilities.. 37 of them were placed in intensive care structures. It is very important here, because I flooded you with numbers, but it can't be otherwise, yet for the people who are listening to us, I would like to stress that only 5% of all hospitalized individuals have a serious illness. Loading of the health system according to this indicator is not reported and is occupied only 4% of the capacity of hospital beds. In view of the above, in both global and European and national levels, with the particularities that I have quoted just now, there is an increase in the intensity of the spread of COVID-19 and the development of another wave, which is determined by the circulation of the omicron subvariants, which I quoted to you just now. As Professor Chorbanov raised the issue of information and the hearing of the health minister regarding COVID-19 and anti-epidemic measures in a very interesting cancer, which I would also like to include in the discussion... the use of the disease, the development of the wave for political purposes, for election rhetoric, in no case should this happen. Therefore, I have highlighted several times these percentages, which account for both lower system load and lower mortality. What you have done and for which I thank you, I am speaking to all Members of the National Assembly, is an amendment from 26 April 2022 to the Health Act. I suppose this is what Professor Chorbanov also meant, is a requirement that the introduction of anti-epidemic measures on the territory of the country or on a separate area during an emergency epidemic situation or after its cancellation, as well as the prevention of subsequent epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 of the Law, including in the case of COVID-19, to be carried out according to the National plan of preparedness and action for epidemics or pandemics. The National Operational Plan states that when introducing anti-epidemic measures, a mathematical model for complex pre-clinical analysis and risk assessment for the loading of the hospital system is applied with a view to taking appropriate preventive action. And this predictability, which you mentioned before reaching close to the critical load levels, is calculated a combined risk assessment indicator, where there are indicators that account for the incidence based on 14-day numbers, the employment rate of intensive and non-intensive beds and identify different stages with which I can introduce you a little later, if any, if any. I've also prepared for what area in which stage it is and what will be the forecast for the next two or three weeks. Stages are from stage zero to stage 4. By yesterday's date, there are nine districts. Burgas, Varna, Vratsa, Gabrovo, Dobrich, Pernik, Sofia-city, Sofia-district and Yambol are in stage 1 Temporary anti-epidemic measures are introduced in these areas, which are responsible for Stage 1, of course, without the measures concerning schools, as children are on vacation. It is pointless to impose such measures at the moment. These are wearing a protective mask for a person in medical and health facilities, social services facilities, again the requirements for compliance with a physical distance of at least 1,5 meters in places where people accumulate, hand hygiene, disinfecting surfaces and regular ventilation, work from a distance when possible, carrying out an enhanced morning filter in children's establishments for the prevention of children with clinical symptoms for COVID-19, as well as for all other infectious diseases. What I can assure you, and, of course, I will develop it in the answer to my questions, if any, is that the Ministry of Health continues to monitor the continuous spread of COVID-19 in the country and, if necessary, to reach high levels of 14-day morbidity and to take account of a trend for sustained increase in the number of hospital beds employed and associated burden of the hospital system, which we currently do not take into account, but if taken into account, there are other anti-epidemic measures that are provided for in the National Operational Plan for dealing with the pandemic of COVID-19. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u317	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. I would just like to recall the rules of the hearing, not so much for us as for the people who are watching and listening to us right now. Each parliamentary group will be entitled to two questions. They will be asked within two rounds from the largest to the smallest parliamentary group. After each question to be asked within two minutes, an answer is followed within five minutes, and once the questions and answers are completed, each parliamentary group will have the opportunity to express its attitude to the hearing within five minutes. The Parliamentary Group is continuing the Change "Please come for your first question."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u318	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I take the opportunity of your presence and hearing one for all those involved in the sector................................................................................................. To recall, although sometimes the Kovid issue is used for political speaking and for measuring forces and knowledge, we have consistently in the last two and a half years struggled with an infection that began in a very definite way with quite a number of figures that scared the world, and Bulgaria, but with the accumulation of experience, and with the accumulation, I would say, and with immunity in society against both the disease and against the false news, which at the beginning were quite often everyday, we manage to adapt the efforts of both the executive and the health sector to this less and less and less this disease to disrupt our calmness and our ability to deal with the problem. I use the opportunity to ask a question: what are the expectations of the Ministry of Health in terms of forecasts in the next few weeks, specifically two or three, because longer forecasts are made with a wishful thinking rather than an expert nature; what is your opinion on moving people, especially during the summer season, because we know that this is a season of tourism and moving tourists both inside the country and outside the country, and what will be the attitude for possible border control? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u319	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u320	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Associate Professor Tonev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Regarding the ban on entering the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, with which in the near past we seem to have been accustomed, no such ban has been introduced at the time. The introduction of such a measure depends, in principle, at all, on the international spread of COVID-19 worldwide, but, of course, mostly in European, what is happening in neighbouring countries, what measures they are also taking, related to the emergence and spread of new variants of the virus with proven increased contagiousness, that is, it is not a such decision, and no such decision is expected in any case to be taken within a few hours and simply rendered without being explained. In a moment I will also quote the changes from the Health Act, which I am referring to in this statement and which changes thanks to you will not allow us to have such restrictions, for example, in the movement of the territory of the country. It also depends on hospitalizations, on the burden of health systems not only of Bulgaria, but also of neighbouring countries. At the moment, we do not have such a burden, of course, on the system and the way the disease is going, regardless of height, does not imply such restrictions. In terms of forecasts. Thanks, of course, to the mathematical model they are possible for a certain period of time. It is expected in region 1, which covers Sofia-city, Sofia-district, Vidin, Vratsa, Montana, Pernik, Kyustendil and Blagoevgrad, i.e. this is the unification of several areas, to pass eventually, but this is, I repeat, mathematical modeling, which depends on many factors. If we have more responsible behavior, it is quite possible not to come to an expected stage of August 1 as are the calculations. According to the model stage 1 - Lovech, Gabrovo, Pleven, Ruse, Veliko Tarnovo, which are currently at stage zero, possibly at stage 1, i.e. the increase is expected to be smooth, but it is quite possible to be limited in compliance with a responsible behavior. I mean wearing protective masks in medical facilities, social institutions, keeping this physical distance. I am not for a reason repeating the physical range, as very often there is talk about social demand. This is something different, and I wouldn't want to mix the two terms. Let me just read to you and remind you that with the amendments to the Health Act of April 2022. The current anti-epidemic measures under para. 10 and 11 cannot include a ban on entering the territory of the country, limiting the movement of the country, that is, what we got used to at some point, I put it in quotes, I don't think you get used to it, with the restriction of movement. Under the changes that the current Parliament adopted in the Health Act cannot happen, and no suspension of work of public-use sites and/or other sites or services provided to citizens can occur and a requirement of a document for access to sites and services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u321	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. From GERB-SDS parliamentary group who will ask the question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u322	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly who have remained in the Chamber! Madam Minister, my question is in the following direction. In view of the plan presented by you and the possibility of reaching stage 4 and the announcement of an emergency epidemic situation there is quite a time mathematically and professionally proven. Until then, under the Plan that you presented, under the legal amendments adopted in the Health Act, and in particular Art. 63, measures under para. 10. In the same provision it is precisely: "Those who seek to overcome the consequences after the cancellation of the declared exceptional epidemic situation under para. 1 and/or prevention of subsequent epidemic spread of infectious diseases under art. 61, para. 1 as well as control of the epidemic risk. In the absence of a declared epidemic situation, as we are at the moment, the suspension of business work is prohibited only for businesses which are reflected in the Law. 12. And my specific question to you is: how, then, in the phase 3 plan provided by you, do you intend to terminate all non-professional group activities? This, Madam Minister, is dozens of businesses that are subject to public services and thus limiting the free movement of people. That's my question to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u323	Thank you, Mr. Subev. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u324	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you rightly pointed out, we are far from this stage 3. From the behavior, I say again, to everyone in specific areas depends on whether it will come to this stage. What you have read from Phase 3 as a group activity of a non-professional nature, this part of the group activities of a non-professional nature that fall within the definition that you said about the businesses under the Health Act should not be included and should be limited. What's the mechanism here? Firstly, because of this difference in morbidity between the different districts, this should be at regional level, at regional health inspection, and they should coordinate the relevant measures depending on the stage in which they are, with the Chief State Health Inspector, whose responsibility it is to monitor exactly what has just happened. However, if it happens to be seen that there is any problem, i.e. in coordination, there is an opportunity and this possibility to update this plan and these stages is recorded, so I rather think that these concerns will not be realized. This is how the mechanisms have been undertaken not to be implemented, and Stage 3 has not yet been implemented in at least the next few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u325	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. Do you have a question from the DPS parliamentary group? You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u326	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In recent weeks we have seen an increase in disease with COVID-19 and experts predict that by the end of August it will be the peak of this wave. If we follow this logic, today the patients were 1860, yesterday there were 2300 and by the end of the month they will increase dramatically. In this regard, Madam Minister, my question to you is: what specific measures does the Ministry of Health take and when does it intend to implement them? As a question of question, I would like to ask you: have you followed the course of the pandemic, and if the answer is yes, why have you not continued with the vaccination campaign because 80% of the deaths appear to belong to people who do not have vaccines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u327	Thank you, Mr. Weyselov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u328	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Weyselov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to the specific measures, I also replied in the statement that they at this stage, depending on the stages in the different areas and the differences in morbidity, are applicable in nine areas and I have actually read what the measures are, saying that an exception makes the measure for the areas that are stage 1 concerning schools, as children are on vacation. Regarding the vaccination campaign, thank you for bringing this issue to light. The campaign continues, the campaign of the Ministry of Health.+ me, and in recent weeks there has also been an increase in the number of vaccinated, of course, not at the rate we would like, as in other countries. Indeed, as you have noted, about 70% of those who are in a hospital and in whom the disease is more severe are unvaccinated. Within the campaign, we offer information in an accessible language, there are enough vaccines provided, but of course, vaccination is my creed from the very beginning, it must be a voluntary process. The point is that this decision must be made informed, based on data. There are also too many hybrid attacks in this regard.. false information, including some trumped-up talks between me and the Prime Minister about the fact that almost the number of infected people is being increased. People react differently to such news. That is why I am pleased that you, from the IHN parliamentary group, asked us to discuss this issue in order to be able to hear information that is objective and which rests on numbers and statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u329	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, Professor Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Serbenova, honourable colleagues! The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria was against your hearing today in Parliament and it is evident that by the majority who voted for your hearing there are currently, I have listed them, 26 people in the Chamber who are interested in what you will tell them. This suggests that interest is rather anecdotal. I can use other epithets. Especially for my esteemed Professor Chorbanov, I am surprised that a man like him who is so well acquainted as a virologist and immunologist with the problems of COVID-19 has now decided here to concern the people's representation. But we will take an attitude in the finale of your hearing as an attitude to the problem. My question to you is, because Bulgarian citizens are looking at us to tell us: is there any problems in moving the territory of the continent Europe and the Balkan Peninsula in relation to summer vacations unrelated to the chaos in the airlines due to their overload since summer, and in relation to the COVID-19 and the provisions of the different countries, for which every day a newsletter is published on the Internet? If there are any difficulties or restrictions, let the Bulgarian citizens hear them and be able to comply with them, although I know what they are and that there are none. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u331	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u332	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Mihailov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I can only confirm the last part of your words and say that Bulgaria has taken the approach that other countries have taken, that is to say, the introduction of such restrictions must be very carefully assessed when it is being burdened not only by the system of the country concerned, but also by neighbouring countries, and the difficulties that you hinted at when travelling and mentioned are not related to the spread of COVID-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u333	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. There is such a people? Here you go, Mr. Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam Secretary! I, of course, am tempted to enter into a dialogue on the meaning of the hearing and whether the subject excites society, because sometimes we discuss in parliamentary times things that are so far away from the subjects of society that I am even ashamed to listen to these debates. But anyway, this is a topic that is absolutely public at the moment, judging by the interest of our constituents, especially what will happen in the future. Madam Minister, I'm not going into a long preamble. My question is extremely specific and, in fact, my extreme disagreement with the way everything is announced, this is based on the terminology that defines the measures. We are constantly talking about the measures, the coloring of the zones in the districts, all this is claimed on the subject of morbidity. But this is not a morbidity, these are positive cases. In fact, all the calculations that are being made on the development of the disease are on the subject of positive cases, and we all know that very few of these positive cases are actually really sick. We know there's no burden on the health care system. Is there, of course, a mathematician could not have guessed it, but would the really extremely sharp increase in positive cases lead to an equally sharp increase in the risk of real morbidity? This is the radical question of what can be expected. In fact, the reaction of the people, if you will, of our group, which requested this hearing, was: why are the two components equalized to those of sick people and positive people? Of course, that there are positive people in terms of viruses and bacteria that never manifest this disease is the factor by which these people do not even know that this exists. If these people hadn't been tested, they wouldn't have known. I will also say the high percentage of positive cases of what is due. It is due to the fact that not all people are tested, but only people with symptoms are tested, people who are experiencing any problems, symptoms and go to a doctor, and are being tested, or entering hospitals. That's why the percentage is so high. If they close the room here now, right, we're short, but you'll see we won't have 25%.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u335	The weather, Mr. Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u336	Thank you. This is actually my question: to what extent does the incidence of positive cases correspond, and why should this be taken into account?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u337	Thank you, Mr. Chorbanov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u338	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chorbanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I confirm, of course, that the topic of COVID-19 is a topic of public importance, so no matter how many MPs are at the moment in this House, it is important that many more people listen to us and what we are discussing and discussing right now, and I hope this hearing will reach many people. What you said in relation to the incidence of cases, they are included in this mathematical model. So he's more than twenty, twenty-something factors. We believe that at this stage the wave will flow differently from what we saw at the beginning of the year. So it's not just in the formula. What you rightly noted about the number of positive cases, the rates of testing, and the load of the system, not only the number of beds, because somehow as a public speaking we accentuate too much on these beds, whether for intensive or intensive treatment, but also the incidence in which groups it is. This is also included in the mathematical model, as well as the incidence among medical staff, because it is important to have someone to treat us, and if there is an increase in morbidity among medical staff, naturally, this will also affect the mathematical model. I mean, that's all there is to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u339	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. We are moving on to the group of "Democratic Bulgaria." Here you go, Mr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u340	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Last year, we from "Democratic Bulgaria" appealed repeatedly in the last parliament to have tests, so-called sparing tests, for children, in the heat of the summer. After months of clarification by the Ministry of Health that we do not have the possibility of such and transfer of responsibility between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Science, such orders were made and tests were launched, but it was too late and on this basis schools were closed precisely with the justification that there were no tests available. In this regard, is there coordination this year and is the Ministry of Health a rule that does not come back to this lack of tests and such justification to close schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u341	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u342	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Dr. Simidchiev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What I have not been able to develop in one of the previous answers is that it is possible and not at all to come to this stage in the development of this wave, because, firstly, we are currently in a period where there is a vacation. There are, of course, quantities of previous orders left, but we are currently on vacation. Again, it will depend on the behaviour of each and every one of us and on compliance with those, I would say, very slight anti-epidemic measures that are currently taking place. It is quite possible that I have also spoken with colleagues who support the mathematical model..................... to not reach this peak that we are talking about. I assure you that coordination between the two ministries is good and I hope it will be good in the future with the next management of these departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. Last but not least, the Parliamentary Group of Revival. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u344	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! When a few months ago the majority here changed art. 63 of the Health Act, with which you asked, in fact, recommended that regional health inspections issue orders to impose measures and restrictions, even then we spoke and voted against precisely on the grounds that the responsibility and control of these acts of regional health inspections would be reduced. My question is as follows: The Sofia Health Inspection in the face of the Director Dancho Penchev, on the 18th he issued an Order No RD-01-226 for the imposition of temporary measures for 30 days, including the following: 1.1, in addition to the mandatory wearing of masks in hospitals, one is also required in specialized institutions providing social services. My question to you is to clarify: what do you think specialized institutions providing social services mean? I'll tell you why. Because at the Sofia Office of Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral, the director issued an order this morning that prevents citizens from wearing masks. That is to say, he introduced the mandatory wearing of masks as a requirement for access to the building, resulting in a huge scandal. I was there, too. It came almost to physical clashes, in which this same director came down and said that he repealed this order and allowed the citizens to enter as they wanted, which resulted in some of these citizens wearing masks, and most of them without masks. But I want you to explain here to the public exactly where and how this order should be applied, because some state institutions, such as the Sofia Geodesy Office, Cartography and Cadastral, clearly interpret these orders on their own grounds, which we believe are at least unlawful.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u345	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u346	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Petrov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The order of the Sofia Regional Inspection is in front of me and the point quoted by you. But before I answer the second part of your question, I will focus on the first part. We have not given responsibility to regional health inspections with the changes to the Health Act, because they have always had this responsibility at the regional level. In fact, the control mechanism of their orders is written in the Law, and it is that they must be agreed with the Chief State Health Inspector. Obviously, however, also from the information you have provided, and I take it as a signal, there should sometimes be enough clarification, because I think there can be no two opinions here. We are talking here about administrative services, what you mentioned, that happened at the Cadastral Office, not social services. So as soon as I get back to the Ministry, I will talk about the need for obvious further clarification in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u347	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. With that, we've exhausted the first round of questions. Moving on to the second round. We're continuing the Change? You have no question. Does GERB have a question? Here you go, Mrs. Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! In connection with the spending of PMS 461 funds from 22 December 2021 for the purchase of rapid antigen tests to ensure the health system during the exceptional epidemic situation, there were a number of statements in the media of the management of the Ministry of Health that a number of violations have been found. On this occasion, my question to you relates to the following: The Ministry of Health in your person in how he distributed the funds for the purchase of the tests; on what basis and what analysis was the decision taken which regional health inspection to receive; did you sign this distribution and had the authority to allocate the financial resources that signed it; did the requirements set for the purchase of these tests, the maximum limit price and so on? My question relates precisely to this, because according to the Rules of Procedure, the financial policy of the Ministry is implemented and controlled by you, and there were alarming statements that these 13,5 million. BGN, which had to be used to purchase tests, are in the procedure of wrongdoing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u349	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u350	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Sacheva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I assume you're referring to the purchase of rapid antigen tests during regional health inspections. As you rightly pointed out, such infringements have been identified, which has also led to a delay in these payments, as the methodology that has been developed has also been consistent with the infringements found and addressed. As far as specific prices are concerned, I assure you that if you submit a written question to us, in the specifics, we will answer you how the distribution has been made, to which regional health inspections, at what prices. In practice, because how to put it more delicately, part of what we have established has been handed over to the relevant services. There are large price differences, so these large price differences are provided for in this methodology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u351	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. Is there a question? I can't see. From BSP, colleagues, do you have a question? There's also no question, as far as I understand. There is such a people? Here's the second question, Mr. Chorbanov. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u352	He jumped us.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u353	Guys, I didn't skip you. I specifically asked, but you were looking at your phones. You're welcome to develop your question, Mr. Chakarov. Please wait, Mr. Chorbanov, at this rate. Look at the shorthand. Anyway, it's important that the process is going. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u354	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, is there any readiness to establish a organisation for the treatment of horse mackerel in medical facilities under more severe pressure on the system and, if necessary, what does this organisation foresee, as it was created? We know that in many places these newly discovered, to say the least, healing units have been shut down. In addition, is there a single protocol already established for the treatment of horse mackerel and is treatment provided when it is required, with monoclonal antibodies, when, according to doctors, it is unalternative to save the patient's life, and what is the experience and practice in this regard? Is this ready to be applied in more places? In addition, I would like to ask, I suppose that there is to be correctness in terms of all who work in the health care system for their payment, because now I do not want to go into detail, but after passing the strong wave, the great wave of covetous pandemic, there was some comfort, there were problems in this regard. I hope this will be corrected. As doctors, we can't help but be concerned about people who spend 24/7 and even sacrifice themselves. We have colleagues who have lost them, a bright memory of them. In addition, rather commitment, but they are rather an executive body NHIF, is it envisaged because it was said when we discussed the budget that it would be envisaged for post-covid syndromes and treatment of patients who have a complication, whether they are foreseen for further further steps, so that there would be an organisation, naturally, to provide a resource. I ask you questions, realizing that responsibility and implementation know who it belongs to, but policies are being formed by the Ministry of Health and in this respect is important your position and the vision you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u355	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u356	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Associate Professor Chakarov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! With regard to the workload of the hospital system, although the number of hospitalized persons increased, by yesterday's date 37 were accommodated in intensive care structures and only 5% of all hospitalized persons had a severe disease. Loading of the health system is currently unaccounted for and is occupied only 4% of the capacity of hospital beds. In this context, the potential has not been realised and we hope that we will not reach this potential, but nevertheless we have preventively sent a letter through regional health inspections to hospitals, reminding them that the treatment of COVID-19 is being carried out in the framework of existing clinical events. That is, it can also be done in compartments of pneumology and phthsiatry, pediatrics, endocrinology, internal diseases, neonatology. There is no need to have only separate infectious compartments or so-called cobra compartments, as we used to call them in the past. In other words, the existing regulation and the existence of three clinical pathways for the treatment of horse mackerel allow hospitals to treat the disease adequately. Of course, there are regulatory requirements to comply with the Regulation regarding the restriction of nosocomial infections. If consultation with an infectious disease specialist is needed, there is also a regulation for it to be carried out, you know, on an interdisciplinary approach. Nevertheless, we have preventively held talks with the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. At the moment, both according to their data and according to the management of the National Health Insurance Fund, it is not necessary to define separate compartments and structures. What is in the other part of the question, yes, if this happens, there is such a mechanism as it is written in the Health Act that after the adoption of the National Plan the directors of regional health inspections can make such an increase in beds. At the moment, however, it is not necessary, after which the mechanism is to conclude an annex to the contract with the National Health Insurance Fund. So the mechanisms exist. With regard to the update of the protocol, this is entrusted to the Immunoprophylaxis Council and, accordingly, with a review by the Chief State Health Inspector, because it is noted that this sub-variant actually occurs in a slightly different way. There are quantities of medicinal products available that you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u357	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. Let me ask you again... [[Reply by MP Jevdet Chakarov.]] There's no way. Then you will express an attitude at the end of the discussion. From the BSP for They don't hear me as if they did, but there's no possible question. No. Here you are, Mr. Chorbanov, you have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, the question is rather rhetorical and it comes from many questions of citizens concerning mostly the quarantine of positive but asymptomatic and those who are contactable. It is clear that in the current development of this type of virus, this variant of the virus, which is extremely highly contagious and much lighter to spend from a large part of the population, the huge number of people with severe symptoms and people who spend the virus are mostly elderly people and people with diseases, and the vast majority of young people are absolutely asymptomatic. It is clear that in order to understand the actual number of morbidity, tests must be carried out. What Dr. Simidchiev said was that it's nice to have a larger number of tests to have a real idea of how sick they are. On the other hand, do you think that healthy people who are on vacation and who are absolutely asymptomatic will go to take a test at risk of being quarantined both them and their loved ones, and how much this continuing from the past as a rule, of course, subject to the Law, relatives or contact people, as well as positive ones being quarantined, is up-to-date and can be adequate at the current level of burden of spending the disease?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u359	Thank you, Mr. Chorbanov. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chorbanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you said, the question is rhetorical. The way we've reviewed the treatment rules, this is how we consider and subject to revision and quarantine rules. What you have mentioned is whether or not there will be any change is subject, of course, to discussion by fellow Members who are in the Council, by epidemiologists. What you mentioned, it is part of the epidemiological study, and you are absolutely right that people who are asymptomatic will not, too unlikely to take a test. They usually test people with symptoms. Since you asked the question of the tests, I would like to take this opportunity in answering your question to suggest that we also have conversations with the National Health Insurance Fund. At least when it comes to antigen tests, they have the opportunity to prescribe them, make directions and so on. You know, it's a question that... [[Reply.]] Not PCR, but antigen test. So this will directly and indirectly increase the number of persons tested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u361	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. The Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you are, Mr. Simidchiev, for a second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u362	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! There are almost 10 billion vaccines placed worldwide, of which about 4.5 billion have been completely vaccinated from the seven billion on the globe. Bulgaria is clearly much further back by 30% fully vaccinated. In this regard, in the last parliament of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we appealed for sufficient funds for an effective media information campaign related to vaccination. As a matter of fact, we must commend you for the fact that the Ministry has developed such a campaign. In this regard, because you made a reference at the beginning that there are additional vaccinations after the start of the campaign, what I have as information, is that the basis of the vaccinations are currently those that set booster doses. So these aren't primary vaccinations. Are there clear criteria for the success of such a campaign, that is, are the criteria for success set within the campaign? To me, one obvious would be the number of primary vaccinations after conducting such a campaign. If not, do you foresee further development of this campaign of celebrities and supplementing it with additional criteria to make primary vaccination more effective in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u363	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u364	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Simidchiev, yes, indeed the percentage of vaccinated people is about 30%, and although this media campaign would have been more successful if it had started at the beginning of the pandemic in 2020, we did not give up on it and made it. A success criterion, of course, should be the number of primary vaccinated, but frankly, a success criterion for me are both each vaccinated and each subsequent dose. With regard to celebrities, indeed in some countries, but I repeat, at the beginning of the pandemic, different personalities were used, mainly athletes, also respected personalities in the society concerned, as a kind of advertising, because it is a kind of social advertising to raise the number of vaccinated people. What we have chosen as an approach, the videos that are being distributed within the campaign, plus me, is an approach that may be closer to people, i.e. people who have been vaccinated or have not been vaccinated and share experience of a more severe course of the disease. I'm going to use an allegory, a comparison, because at the beginning of the pandemic, the opportunity to reach people's minds through clear scientific information about vaccines is missed, we try to reach their hearts with these examples. You know that in Bulgaria the opinion of the famous personalities and the understanding of the society towards them is from wasps to crucifixes. So I don't know in what target groups what effect we will have with the use of celebrities in the vaccination campaign. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u365	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. Is it you, Mr. Georgiev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u366	Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, I would like to raise a question which, for a large part of the Bulgarian society, is seriously worrying about people, on which there is a lot of speculation. First of all, to clarify that we, at the time of rebirth, believe that this issue was not a communication made clear by you to our society. We believe that this is the right thing to do, namely the actions of the World Health Organization and the extent to which these actions are mandatory for Bulgaria. This has not been clarified in any way. A lot of people have all kinds of speculation, some parts of society believe, others firmly deny it, we believe that it is right for you to say and clarify this issue as detailed as possible, namely: how much can the World Health Organization impose on Bulgaria what measures should be taken? How much can he just recommend? Here it is very important to specify specifically your intentions, the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister, what are they, i.e. whether everything that is recommended by the World Health Organization, will you possibly implement it? Once again, how much would it be necessary for us? What commitments has our country made to the World Health Organization regarding any restrictive measures to wear masks, if you will? Because, let's say, for the current month, the temperature record is 45 degrees. Maybe we'll have to wear masks out in the open at 45 degrees. Quite a point: what is your attitude about the possible imposition of a new closing of the state, return of the checkpoints, green certificates, any forced measures that restrict the free movement and the possibility of working of the Bulgarian citizens? All these issues must be clarified as clearly as possible, so that there is no doubt about the last person in the state, because these measures depend on the lives of each of us, depending on the quality of life, depending on our social contacts, depending on our work, depends on our full existence. [[the President signals that time has run out]] I hope you can really clarify the situation in detail. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u367	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Georgiev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Absolutely not, because I have two minutes, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u369	Five minutes, but a little more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u370	So, more detailed. I will start from the last part of your question regarding the closing of the state and the so-called checkpoints. According to the amendments to the Health Act published on 26 April 2022, such restrictions cannot happen because temporary anti-epidemic measures cannot include a ban on entering the territory of the country. I read from the Law: "Restricting the movement of the territory of a country..." "Because in fact these checkpoints are a kind of limitation of the movement of objects of public use or other objects, or services provided to citizens, as well as the requirement of a document for access to the facilities and services referred to in point 3. "You have once again given me the opportunity to read this paragraph of the Law and those items that will not allow this to happen. Regarding whether the guidelines, recommendations of the World Health Organisation and what commitments are made are mandatory. All the anti-epidemic measures we are talking about, as well as those I have read in my presentation, they are rather the priority of the country concerned. What we have as a commitment to the World Health Organisation does not concern these anti-epidemic measures, but concerns a treaty of bilateral co-operation which has been signed for years between the Regional Office of the World Health Organisation and the Ministry of Health. This contract takes into account very different areas of cooperation. These are drug policy, health technology assessment, awareness raising regarding health education on various topics, prevention and so on. Since I take note of you correctly that this is a large group of people who have some fears related to the role of the World Health Organization, and whenever some news comes out that the Ministry has signed the two-year agreement, it is a normal practice that happened in March 2022. I read, of course, the comments of some of the people and I find that in this group, perhaps you correctly noted, and because it was not communicated in the right way, but part of the Bulgarian population creates the feeling that we have hardly negotiated anything backstage concerning COVID-19. There's no such thing. This practice of signing two-year agreements is the use of the technical expertise that colleagues from the World Health Organization propose in other areas. Even yesterday there was a seminar with the participation of representatives of the Committee on Health, in which the Regional Office of the World Health Organization, colleagues from Barcelona, presented a study about the percentage of the additional payments of medicinal products in Bulgaria. In other words, the majority of the things agreed in this two-year agreement concern precisely such areas. As far as COVID-19 is concerned, as it is normal to assume, this is a frequently discussed topic in all the forums of the World Health Organization. This can also be verified as a position of the Ministry of Health. This position always passes through the Council on European Affairs, it is endorsed by the Council of Ministers in terms of, again, I will put quotes here the so-called compulsory measures or documents that the World Health Organization is trying to impose on us. No, nothing can be required, because in the World Health Organization everything is subject to discussion. Every country that has its concerns also expresses them quite freely. In case of interest and in a written question on your part, we can provide you with a copy of these positions of the Ministry of Health, which we have consistently continued these positions to express them that, in terms of how the CoVID-19 pandemic is managed, as regards the creation of some financial or other mechanism, each country must have its independence in terms of the need at global level. This in successive positions in the last few managements of the Ministry of Health, as I have also been acquainted with the positions of the previous managements of the Ministry, has been defended. Of course, we can provide you with a copy of these positions to make sure that you too are general guidelines for the World Health Organisation. There are many materials that are provided in space, on the Internet, providing some information from the World Health Organization, a mixture of lies and truth, and respectively a game with people's fears. I think you're absolutely right with a clearer communication campaign some of the people may see the truth, but maybe some of them don't want to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u371	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. That concludes the second round of questions. We're moving on to expressing our views to the hearing. We're continuing the change. Come on in, Mr. Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u372	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Serbenova, quite a short time ago, when colleagues from the "There is such a people" proposed that we should hold this hearing, I voted against because I thought they were other ill-gotten topics before the National Assembly. In fact, I see that this hearing, the discussion and the dialogues produced only useful information for the Bulgarian society, with which I join them, that we need this type of discussion when it takes place in this expert approach. The messages that were important to me and which I would like to emphasise once again is the number of vaccines that have been made worldwide. This type of healing molecules may actually be the most studied and most tested ever since pharmacological studies and clinical trials exist. This should be one of the messages that being vaccinated is a form of protection, not a form of risk. Personally, I am pleased with all the answers that have been given. I think we're much more prepared than the previous waves, for which, of course, gives us the opportunity and the subvariant of the virus that we're going to fight in this wave. I would also say that the focus on intensive beds and on the transmission of the health system will enable us to be much less restrictive compared to past waves and people's lives to go a little more peacefully. Thank you again for your answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u373	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. From the parliamentary group of GERB come in, Mr. Baltov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Serbenova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Covid-19 is not just a flu. We have always been responsible for COVID-19 and it is a fact that there is an increase in the diseased at the moment, and now the positive samples are about 16% of the tested. The lack of adequate measures for the epidemiological situation disturbs us greatly, because this leads to several things. The first of them is difficult access to medical facilities. The fact is that at the moment there are people who have been returned from hospitals because they are denied due to the lack of an infectious ward. The second is the inability to perform rapid antigen tests and PCR tests by both personal doctors and specialists in outpatient care and in medical institutions. The motivation of colleagues who once again, unfortunately, have to go into a special mode of work, is also unclear how it will be, let's say, assisted, because we all know that so far all the people who have been treating COVID-19 have received some additional incentives for this. At the moment, it is a fact that this will not be the case or at least there is no request given by you that something will change in this direction. It is not yet clear what will happen to the students and the upcoming school year, although there is still a long time until then, but it is not clear whether there are rapid antigen tests, so-called sparing rapid antigen tests, whether quantities of previous ones have been scrapped, how many tests the country currently has, and whether an Action Plan has been drawn up if patients are visiblely increased in the next month. The other thing that worries us is that the prepared Action Plan is clearly changing depending on the desire for economic impact, not to protect people's health. What do I mean? We all know that the Plan was amended in such a way that the occupied emergency beds were counted, and in no case were taken into account how many people have gone through the triage zones and how much the medical facilities and outpatient treatment centres were loaded where such triage was made. Also, dropping the so-called vaccination centers should not be overlooked, which greatly limits the possibility of a second or first booster dose to which we are currently witnessing. For example, from our parliamentary group, we want to make a second booster dose, we make lists, but for now we know that the only thing we can do is in RZI, and before you could go to several places and be given a booster dose. We all know what happened to the health care campaign organized by the Ministry plus me. Personally, this thing is a failure. The vaccination never reached the desired 300,000. doses per month, as stated by Prime Minister Petkov. Unfortunately, we see that at the moment only a second booster dose or a first booster dose is being made. Also outstanding doses were left in April and May, which many colleagues working in such vaccination centres complained about. Two months ago in China, it became clear that there would be a new wave caused by the two subvariants of Omicron "BA.4" and BA.5. We know that there were very sporadic information about this, and somehow we have a lack of information campaign to prepare us again, and in fact we were still surprised. The efforts are not aimed at preparing hospitals and outpatient medical care for the apparently increasing number of patients in need of hospitalization and resuscitation treatment. What do I mean? That we don't have really prepared wards and clinics in hospitals right now. We rely on them to provide some rooms where isolations can be made, but they do not have this organization that was created in other waves, when we really knew that, for example, certain compartments would take on a species of patients, depending on whether they were purely internal The criterion for treated patients in resuscitation is absolutely innuendo in my opinion, and I personally believe that it cannot be a criterion for whether more resuscitation beds should be opened and for the treatment of patients with a horse. Assuming that this subvariant of the omicron is going easier, these two subvariants who are currently present in Bulgaria, already proven by sequencing, this does not make their spread less affecting people. This is precisely how it seems that at the moment we do not have a problem, because we do not have a lot of people who have been admitted to hospitals, and in fact the problem is precisely that it is much more contagious, much faster spreading and affects much more people who need to be verified, quarantined and naturally, those who are in lighter shape, however, to be subject to some kind of control by RZI. It is very difficult to do this adequate prevention of hidden morbidity, something that we have not been able to combat as we have, so we notice that your government has not in any way been able to do anything about coming out of the light of the hidden morbidity, which is currently perhaps the highest of all the waves so far. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that for me, COVID-19 is not just a flu, and I think that the attitude towards it should be very different and more serious. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u375	Thank you, Mr. Baltov. Here you are, Mr. Ademov, to express the attitude of the DPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u376	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I can hardly accept the suggestion you took at the beginning of your presentation that the National Assembly cannot speak politically on any subject, including on the subject of the Kovid. The National Assembly is the most political body, the National Assembly presents political parties that have their respective positions on the individual topics, so the accusation that the topic of COVID-19 cannot be politicized is virtually not consistent. Moreover, healthcare is a social system and, in so far as the National Assembly governs political relations, public relations, this means that in the National Assembly, the theme.............................. is not only............. but it can be................................. Doctors are in medical institutions, scientific institutes are researchers, in the National Assembly are politicians. Health is a high form of policy, so the accusations that health issues cannot be politicised are not valid. Next, in recent weeks the number of positive cases of COVID-19 has increased and this is no secret to anyone. In our opinion, the percentage of positive samples is increasing because few people have been tested. You know the European relevant criterion, if I am not mistaken, is about 600 per 100,000 so that adequate decisions can be made. In practice, we do not know how sick and how many carriers of the virus are so that we can take adequate measures. In this regard, the newly adopted pandemic plan lacks epidemiological criteria in practice. The criteria to which you refer are in practice the number of hospitalized, the number of those who are in intensive beds, the occupied resuscitation beds. This, in no case, the Minister, is not epidemiological criteria, it is some kind of mathematical model that probably gives you reason to enter from one group of measures to another group of measures, but these are not epidemiological measures. Epidemiological measures are completely different and have nothing to do with the number of beds employed or the number of hospitalized in hospitals. A moment ago, my colleague Dr. Chakarov and other colleagues asked the question: what happens to paying those who are currently working with a species of patients? The answer to this question awaits all who are currently working in medical facilities, who are treating a species of patients, but unfortunately, we have not heard the answer to this question. And one more thing, in order to facilitate access to research, finally, the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund has to take this decision, which is related to the possibility of general practitioners issuing a direction for the tests. If this decision is taken by the Supervisory Board, it will be easier to access, despite the fact that the cost of PCR tests is already significantly lower than it was last year. Next, with regard to vaccinated people. Dear Minister, it was said a little while ago by Professor Baltov, in practice to date, the vaccine is mostly for the second booster dose, and we know that those who have given a booster dose are about 30%, and the remaining 70% what do we do with them? The information campaign's gone dark. There is no information campaign, and the season of the increase of COVID-19 and its options practically comes with increasing force. Therefore, measures need to be taken in this direction so that we do not reach the incidence and employment levels of hospital beds, which were typical for last year. With these remarks, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we find it difficult to accept this discussion as a discussion that will help solve the problems, moreover, that, at the end of your term, obviously, things are not clear what will happen from now on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u377	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Come in, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Serbenova, honourable colleagues! I will take full advantage, I hope, of the time the regulation gives us. In fact, I've seen some of my colleagues overschedule it several times. This may happen to me, too, but I think it makes some sense, despite the fact that our parliamentary group, as told by you, Madam Minister, has voted against it, but the topic has started to go on in the late afternoon in the Bulgarian Parliament, in the case of interest here of 30 people, I do not know what the interest on the air is, I hope, is greater. Here, one of my colleagues, I do not want personal explanations, so I will not quote names, talking about this topic being in society. Yeah, she's been in the community for two years now, and she's been in the community for twenty-four months for several reasons. I'm not getting into this. Absolutely right are those who say that from this tribune is spoken politically on all topics that affect the Bulgarian nation, because these are policies that are taking place, but you are also right that when something perverted is politicized and used for political purposes, as the National Center for Public Health stated in its report last year, that the decisions that were made regarding the Covid pandemic are mostly political and sinful and not expert, which should have been taken, the results of these decisions have led to a sad effect on the state of the nation. And in order not to go into it, not to talk about it here, too, that the horse is not just the flu, the flu is a very serious disease, yet I will not talk with names that someone will rush into giving personal explanations, but it is not a very dangerous disease, which is not a particularly dangerous disease, and so now the next ZID that we are going to bring into the National Assembly next week is to remove it at last from the place to the Ebol, plague, cholera here I see Professor Chorbanov smiling where he is not and where he was brought in by a political party with a break-in, with an aplomb in the past year. Here in spite of our resistance, they said such things that I am now uncomfortable here to quote them, although some of them are in this room and were the initiators of this unprofessional event then and this mixing of concepts in medicine and dressing him in law, which led to very serious consequences for the Bulgarian nation. But since we are completing a two-year evaluation period here, I can congratulate the Ministry of Health on the pragmatic plan that he has made. It is true that it does not rest entirely on epidemic criteria, but it is true that it rests on clinical criteria, which are the most important for the load of the system what the Ministry of Health is interested in, what the Bulgarian doctors are interested in, is not to burden the system as it was overloaded. And the epidemiology of such infections, which are not particularly dangerous, is crystal clear to those who were interested and who understand something about infectious diseases. There is an iceberg of the... the visible is on top of the surface, on which are the people who are positive. Therefore, these questions will be addressed a little later: does this research make sense, does it have to have directions? Dear Members of Parliament who are not doctors, have any of you examined flu specifically for the past 20 years for 100 years? I don't know one of you. I don't know! [[(Reply from the National Representative Asen Baltov:]] Maybe there are some. Yes, there is. There are, of course, all kinds of people here in the hall, of course, politely yell at me. There are all kinds of people, but it's just not realistic. For such infections, which are not particularly dangerous, this is not realistic. And all of this now requires that we say the main five cancers of the infection. The first is undoubtedly medical, Madam Minister. And this medical cancer requires that here in the hall many times we have been told how much we have scratched our shirts here for the last six months and the green certificate, and for what else in terms of the infection, to understand this infection, to understand what its contagiousness is; what is its toxicity; respiracy; mortality and what is its significance in the overall pathology that goes among the nation. It was seen in the first months, regardless of the calls that the plague of the 21st century was coming. Those who are smaller don't remember, but I do remember when AIDS comes along. Do you remember what a miracle it was, those who experienced this thing 30 years ago? At the time, everyone was dying of fear, especially doctors, that everyone was almost in contact with AIDS and at any moment would come out his clinical picture, which was delayed by a few months or by a few years. It turned out that neither AlDS nor the Kobe were the plague of the 20th and 21st centuries, respectively. And over the course of 24 months, the medical picture of this respiratory infection was completely formed. And there are two things that modern medicine owes to. And one of them is named Professor Chorbanov, and I dare say the name because I think he won't want a personal explanation, he's absolutely right. The notion of positive should not be confused with a diseased person. This is two very different things and fueling the tensions in society now that you see, there are so positive, does not mean that they are sick, because those who are dealing with infectious diseases, infectiouss, epidemiologists, have already told us in these 24 months. And we said it from the stands in the hall that this option, which is now going, is eight times less toxic than the first Uhana version. It's the truth! And that the mortality of this infection is comparable to that of the flu. This is about one medical cancer. The second medical cancer is prevention, prevention and prevention of this infection when it appears. Vaccines were created, they went all the way to normal legalization. And here I do not want to comment on what doubts there were about the relationship with the WHO to Bulgaria. These are quite conspiracy theories in quotes, but these vaccines have passed their test, they have been legalized in the world in a normal way, an accelerated normal way there is such a way. Anyone who doesn't do clinical trials, he doesn't know him. The second thing. They've already been created, and they're about to come out, legalize medication for the treatment of this viral infection. So this covers the two important medical parties. But the second thing that I would like to say and about which one of the groups had once been addressed, and I agreed with them at the time that world medicine was in debt to humanity to say if all the people who had been declared dead by a horse had actually died by a horse or died by a horse, because the level of autopsies that can only verify the cause of death, only they from a purely medical point of view, in the world has been catastrophicly reduced by the last 25 years. That is, from now on, the definition of sick and dead of the Kovid is the duty of every medicine... Bulgarian, I do not want to list other nations, but of Bulgarian medicine is the duty to the nation so that people can actually understand that world medicine has struggled with this infection, found ways for its limitation, found ways for its prevention, but also found its place in these pathologies. She doesn't exaggerate it, she doesn't put it on to get someone or a group of nation's rescuers that she's been trying to get here for the last 24 months. The second big angle is moral.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u379	Mr. Mihailov, just to say that you've gone far, far beyond time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u380	Yeah, I'm coming. The second great angle is the moral angle and in this moral angle we are indeed in debt as MPs, I dare say it with a great deal of self-criticism to the Bulgarian nation, as we presented her with discussions in the hall, attitude to this problem, which are not at the height of the nation. We held on to each other. You remember what accusations there were here about things that weren't admissible. This is about national, even global problems, and in such cases Parliament must be united in its desires and in its decisions to be useful to the nation. I don't want to go any further. There's a lot more than that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u381	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. After all, you saved the second question, so that kind of makes up for it. Now there is such a people. Here you go, Mr. Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! Of course, it is clear that everything that has been associated with a horse in the last two and a half years has very much changed our way of life, changed the way of contact between people, changed relations. A lot of relationships between personalities, between friends, between families, were violated thanks mostly to the treatment of this disease. Our parliamentary group has always tried to be adequate to the situation and always accept things as they are. What does it mean to accept things as they are? We never claimed there was no virus, never claimed there was no crisis. But what was basically our disagreement is the way we reacted to the crisis, the way we were trying to deal with something we had never met before. Of course, there can be three aspects in relation to a species, to measures and to the response of society and health authorities, of course, can be three, can be purely scientific, can be medical, can be political. They are interrelated, of course, because it is through politics that we apply some or other measures, that we apply one or the other forms. We can agree with a long-east model with full house closures, we can make a liberal model that is mostly adequate to what science tells us. Clearly, the current wave is very different from the previous wave. It's clear that we're much more informed, we flag a lot more about this virus and we still have some idea what might be next. I say an idea because many times and many governments not only in Bulgaria, but around the world take credit for dealing with the measures. The virus often shows us that it does not comply with this and that a wave usually occurs in the way that all viral infections occur, regardless of whether we have any measures or not. Of course, we must try and save the most vulnerable groups, because of every single harmless disease, as they call it, a debilitating flu, about two thousand people die a year from a flu infection that is very little in time. Imagine that it is 24 months and you will see that they will be much more. Vulnerable groups are those who may be at risk for any viral infection, whether it is very dangerous or not. That is why the guidelines, the attention had to be placed mostly on the risk groups of elderly people, people with chronic diseases, people with various cancers, people with very high obesity. In general, all that we have learned in these two and a half years, which should be the targets of this therapy, as they are the targets of the virus itself. We should not take ubiquitous measures, make equal treatment for the whole society and for the whole population, because we do not have the opportunity and way to limit only risk groups and how to protect only risk groups. That is why we believe that the attention of the health authorities should be focused on adequate treatment with the most modern possible protocols, with the most up-to-date means available at the moment, and for the people who need this thing. And all others who are healthy, all those who do not have this real risk of experiencing a serious illness, should be left in the best possible way to deal with their duties, with their breaks, with everything that determines normal lifestyles. It is the debate whether or not to have masks in this extremely high, this nice word contagiousness, of course, the ability of the virus to infect. Personally, I doubt deeply that masks will protect anything. Even if they have any effect, in a closed place, in a closed room of a group of people, it can't stop the virus, it might slow it down a bit. And it is from this aspect that I will end with a joyful thought. I'm extremely glad he couldn't acquire any more civility, the monkey pox, because if we put the mask analogue on a species of infection, I can't imagine what kind of protection we should have had with her and how we would have been checked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u383	Thank you, Mr. Chorbanov. "Democratic Bulgaria." Here you go, Mr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u384	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I am tempted, on the basis of all the speeches of the conspirators, to do more lines to them than to you, because what happened in these last two years.........in our society and the politicization that Dr. Ademov talked about. In fact, politics in parliament matters when positive things can arise from it, that is, to consolidate ourselves around some policies or actions that will help us get out of this pandemic, something that we sought from my point of view, from the forty-fiveth parliament, when I entered this process. We did a project on a pandemic plan that would systematically deal with this infection. I'm glad this is already part of the way we deal with it. Secondly, we were willing to make a large-scale campaign with sufficient resources to be able to do it professionally, something that did not happen in the last parliament, and in the absence of funds, a campaign cannot become what it should be and which our nation deserves. A few things that my inner self does not allow me to pass up in terms of whether or not it is a flu and whether it should be in art. 61 of the Health Act. To date, about 6.5 million people have died within two years of a Kovid in the world. The flu on an annual basis rests about 600,000, that is, within two years, a little over a million have died. So about six times as many people died from a horse during that same period. In Bulgaria, about every tenth, who enters the hospital, dies with this diagnosis. Whether it's from this diagnosis, or with this diagnosis, is a question that doesn't really matter, since we have an absolutely high.... more than 80% between the number of positives and the number of deaths and they vary by shift of two weeks. That is, from a scientific point of view, it does not make much sense to discuss this because we know that in this period of the pandemic we have lost almost 40,000 people who might not have died. Much more than any other infection, especially those in the paragraph in question. Of all these particularly dangerous infections in Bulgaria, we do not have 10 people dead, and we have over 40 thousand dead. So if we have to talk politically and make political decisions about protecting people and the nation, Kovid is a priority issue that we need to pay enough attention to. And the way we've been talking for over a year is that he needs to be plannedly persecuted, that we need to talk mainly with communication, that we need to have a communication campaign to prepare people. Not to divide them on the basis of whether to wear masks or not, whether to have a green certificate or not, but to know why each of the things we do is being done, and that people can be convinced, with confidence, and with faith in the political class and in the health guild, to be able to go through such crises in the least damage. And in conclusion, although not quite on the subject, in connection with something Professor Baltov said. In Sofia there are such vaccination centers, one of them is in the hospital where I work, and I invite the entire parliamentary group to order every working day between 8.00 and 16.00 so that we can inoculate you if you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u385	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. From rebirth? Here you are, Mr. Ganev, to express your attitude to the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u386	Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, first of all, thank you for being here and answering all the questions correctly. That's what we told you when there was one of the big protests at rebirth, you were the only minister who didn't hide. Honor makes you stand then, accept some of the protesters, one of whom I was, stand up and answer all questions. This is respectable and I say again, unlike all the others who hid in the Council of Ministers. The second thing I want to say to you, you brought it up yourself. I would ask you personally to e-mail me all of the WHO's views on Bulgaria and all of our positions at WHO for the last three years. This is not about anything else, but just because there is really one division in our society on this thing, there are different views on the influence of the WHO, about all this thing that our country is giving up or carrying out as orders. You will do a good thing in society to distract these things so that these protocols, or all of this in the last three years, can be accessed and seen. I'd appreciate it if you could send it to me. Regarding everything that's been heard in this room. Thanks to Professor Mikhailov. Once again based on his knowledge, based on experience, based on all that he has read as statistics, such as opinions from the medical community, once again, as well as a few months ago, he exposed it in the hall, pointed out indisputable facts from the medical circles of us, the people who are not medics, but pointed out things about which a large part of the medical environments just kept quiet, or swallowed and did not hear them. Something that, by the way, did similar to the media and Associate Professor Atanasov. This is the head of the Kovid ward in Pyrogov. There are two interviews that in the national media were turning when it was really about the forced vaccination of parts of his team, which works in the coffin, and the green certificates. He long and wide explained how exactly and what impact vaccines have and whether they prevent anything at all from people working in a compartment. Another such example, which we are leaning on from the age of old, is Dr. Valchev, the chairman of the ARCHER, Kardzhali, who is the head of the Kovid ward in Kardzhali. Kardzhali has some of the best, not to say the best, results during the so-called pandemic and this as mortality in their hospital, at all in the whole area. I have long and wide spoken with him about why and what this is due to. He said what Professor Mihailov said. What Mr. Atanasov said, too, is that it is all about explaining to the patients when they really are difficult cases, when they need hospital treatment and when all this stuff can go home for treatment. And for vaccines and for this thing that's been going on for the last two years.. closing whole areas, checkpoints, this is madness, which we at rebirth will not accept, we have not accepted. And when it became clear that new measures would be put in place, we explicitly gave a press conference and said that in order not to have protests again in the middle of the summer, we are begging all the authorities in the case of the Ministry, the Council of Ministers, not to proceed to any strict restrictions, we see no benefit from this. Even here in this room, there are several people coming in masks that can't help anyone, because when we get out of the room, the masks are getting off and it's just a travesty for the media. Regarding what we have seen, and here is commented on a long and wide again by some of the political parties about vaccination campaigns. We at the age have said absolutely always: whoever wants to be vaccinated is welcome to go vaccinate at his risk, to do what he has decided, but we cannot accept forced vaccination, we cannot accept that this thing has to happen in a way that, in order to go to work, you have to be vaccinated to enter a given room, you have to be vaccinated and have a certificate. That's unacceptable. We're not antivaxers in the fullest sense, given that I, my child, have been vaccinated with all vaccines regarding what we have since birth, we're against what there is as a substance that is offered for a vaccine. There's no booster right now, we have a fourth vaccine. If you're only three, you're unvaccinated. That's what we're fighting against, that's not what we're going to accept, and that's why we said this is unacceptable. What happened in the past two years and suffered an apogee, this government, and the former minister of service Denkov in the schools mandatory testing. Well, a lot of parents don't want their kids tested. We've come to the point where we saw the external evaluation of the children. Where are we on closing schools and not going to school? Crying results. This is the future of Bulgaria and what happened with the closing of schools is one of the biggest sins of several successive governments. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. No less attitude should be taken to both you as a minister and the next minister, whoever he is, to clarify that psychological and mental pressure on people to constantly explain mass death, for the apocalypse that will occur, gives results. People are stressful colossal. And I end up with what everyone in this room knows, our society knows that a large part of all those who had a green certificate is the fruit of the fact that there is trade. There's a trade! The Bulgarian refused to be vaccinated, the Bulgarian did not accept to lay a liquid accused of a vaccine and started buying a green certificate. That's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-20.u387	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. That concludes the hearing. Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova, for your participation today. Tomorrow we continue at 9:00 p.m. 15 on the agenda, which is the first for Thursday, First Voting of the Law amending the Agricultural Aid Act. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
