ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u1	Please register. While the registration is running here, to say that to colleagues from yesterday who participate online, Anna Alexandrova joined, so that makes nine. Abort registration. 190 MPs are registered here and nine online.. 199. Before we move on to the agenda, two messages: In connection with the execution of art. 84, p. 16 and so on. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the regulatory requirements concerning the accountability of bodies which are elected in whole or in part by the National Assembly, the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 12 January adopted that the annual reports and reports of those bodies for 2020, received in the Parliament in 2021 but not reviewed by the National Assembly, should be allocated to discussing the relevant permanent committees, which will be carried out as soon as possible. Following the submission of the reports and opinions by the Standing Committees on Reports and Annual Reports, I hope that they will be discussed and voted by the National Assembly, which will be able to complete the reporting procedures of these bodies before Parliament. One more message: By letter of the Court of Auditors. No 47-224-001 of 10 January 2022 has been submitted to the National Assembly a list of the completed financial audits of the annual financial statements for December 2021. The material has been submitted to the Budget and Finance Committee. Audit reports on financial audits carried out have also been published on the Court of Auditors' website. Mr. Angov.. a statement on behalf of....We continue the Change. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u2	Dear colleagues, yesterday 77 people lost their lives in the fight with a Kovid. Roughly, it's a little less than half of this room, just visually imagining it. Organising people to travel, especially encouraging them not to use personal protective equipment and vaccines on the day with the most newly infected since the start of the crisis, is nothing more than a reckless hooligan act. The lives of the protesters are at risk because the MPs will wave their parliamentary card and will be admitted to the crowded hospitals, and this is a luxury that their voters do not have. I would like to thank the staff of the Ministry of Interior, who yesterday, without using any additional funds, with the thought of protesters, for their lives and for their safety, also made sure that this protest, despite the escalation and despite the incitement to an attack by the AGE MPs, was not injured by the protesters. Yet over eight policemen were injured yesterday. We have been waking up every morning for two years with mortality figures and for those who have died over the past 24 hours. Many people take this hard, worrying about their lives and the lives of their loved ones, many people worry about their work. However, a handful of people in the morning, looking at the figures, looking at the moods, see the possibility of a political dividend while putting their constituents' lives at risk. Dear colleagues, it is not the time to succumb to false news and provocations, it is not the time to perform propaganda that denies science.................. let us unite and do everything in our power to save as many human lives as possible. Let us leave our ego, let us leave the percentage support, let us try to reduce the number of Bulgarians killed in this pandemic. I call on even those who call the vaccine an experimental liquid to follow the example of some of their leaders and MPs of rebirth and to be vaccinated. After all, if the so-called experimental fluid from rebirth is the way to save our loved ones, I don't think it's that kind of sacrifice. Loosening the measures is a topic we will discuss after passing the current wave. This, according to data from Western Europe, will be a heavy wave in which they make fewer sacrifices. Yes, there are prisons because life is appreciated, and the wave has it and it develops despite vaccines, but no, people don't die at such a high percentage. Let's save lives, not condemn them to win voters! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. Angov. Perhaps the events, some of them, yesterday should be the subject of consideration in one of the Committees on Parliamentary Ethics, for example, but I am merely indicating it. Go ahead, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u4	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, as the forthcoming item on the agenda concerns millions of Bulgarian citizens, millions of pensioners, please be broadcast directly on BNT and BNR. As well as asking for a procedure for access to the plenary room of the governor of the NSI Ivaylo Ivanov, and the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivan Krastev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u5	You have made two procedural proposals in one speech, but we need to make two votes, there is no way to put them together in one procedure. First, I vote on the proposal for direct broadcast on BNT and Bulgarian National Radio. Please vote a vote procedure to also vote on colleagues who are online. Anna Alexandrova? The connection's broken. Ventislava Lyubenova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u6	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u7	Desislava Atanasova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u9	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u10	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u11	Kaloyan Ikonomov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u12	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u13	Mustafa Karadaye?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u14	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u15	Nikola Minchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u16	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u17	Plamen Abrovski?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u18	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u19	Hristo Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u21	Abort the vote. Vote 202 plus 8 - 210 MPs: 186, against 2, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the request for admission in the hall of Ivaylo Ivanov and Ivan Krastev. I ask again for a voting procedure. I still have to ask about Anna Alexandrova, what if she got involved in the process? No. Ventislava Lyubenova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u22	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u23	Desislava Atanasova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u25	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u27	Kaloyan Ikonomov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u29	Mustafa Karadaye?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u31	Nikola Minchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u33	Plamen Abrovski?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u34	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u35	Hristo Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u36	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u37	They voted 195 plus 8 online " 203 MPs: for 203, against and abstention there is no. Please invite the guests to the hall. Let's move on to the point: HEARING THE MINISTER OF TRUDA AND SOCIAL POLICY ON THE RECURRENCE OF PENSIONS, REASONS FOR WHICH THERE ARE PENSIONERS THAT ARE REFUNDED BY THIS, AND HOW THE AGE PEOPLE WHO COULD BE COMPENSED TO REDUCE THE DELIVERIES OF THE LAST MONTHS OF 2021 WILL BE COMPENSED. Here you are, Mrs. Sacheva, to present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Since 25 December 2021, changes in pension legislation have entered into force which have affected the size of pensions. From that date, the amount of all pensions relating to employment which are granted at a starting date after 24 December shall already be calculated with a new burden for the years and months of service without conversion. In a number of his public statements, both in the National Assembly and before the media, Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev, including in his capacity as Minister of Service, when proposing the recalculation, made a political commitment not to reduce the income of pensioners after 1 January 2022. On 23 December from the parliamentary tribune he said that there will be no pensioners who will receive less money than the funds they receive at the moment, plus 120 levs. Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicine. The pensions won't be lower than what people received in December. This is what you assured, Mr. Gokov, in an interview with BNT. At the same time, since the beginning of the year, there has been a wave of discontent among pensioners in terms of why what was promised has not proved real. The media reported that over 1 million elderly people in Bulgaria received less money in January compared to the last two months of last year despite the increase in pensions, which averaged 12.5%. For most of the pensioners, however, the increase proved to be less. I am tempted to remind you of the recent past when I was Minister of Labour and Social Policy and you were an opposition MP. Then we have often argued over the recalculation of pensions, and I have answered you that recalculation, which will not be profitable for 1 million pensioners, would not be right to hold it. For example, your proposal to use the income for 2019, except that it would violate the contribution principle, and it would cost 2.7 billion. lv. To the state, it would leave no increase of 368 thousand pensioners. I asked for this hearing in your capacity as Minister of Labour and Social Policy because I think it is important to introduce the MPs to the way pensions were recalculated, who are the pensioners and how many pensioners who received less money and to tell a little more about how they will be compensated against their incomes from the last months of 2021. I believe this hearing will also be useful for you, because indirectly you can also answer with your views on the development of the pension system. We expect you to inform us in detail about the reference and analysis that was done by the National Insurance Institute. I believe that this hearing is necessary and important for all MPs, because I suppose that, as we of GERB-SDS' parliamentary group, as well as everyone else receive continuous inquiries in their mail and in their receptions. For example, in Dobrich, this Monday, out of 12 people, 8 people were complaining about what was happening to their pensions. So we expect to get detailed information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. You have the floor, Minister, to make your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Sacheva. I would first like to wish the Forty-Seventh National Assembly a successful and long life. Thank you for the opportunity you are giving me to provide you with information on the subject, which has caused a wave of questions related to recalculating pensions, the reasons why pensioners feel deprived and the actions to be taken. In this way, I believe that, along with the selfish and political goals pursued by such a parliamentary hearing, it is given the opportunity for people of retirement age, and not only them, to get explanations on a topic that excites the whole society. Also with the topic and wording of the hearing is suggested by talking about the wronged pensioners in the general sense of the word. According to the Bulgarian dictionary, the word "injure" is used to cause damage, damage, deprive someone of something they deserve. It is normal when a large group of people have received a lower payment, although not in large amounts, to feel deprived, but it is not normal for this to qualify as a political problem without taking into account the fact that there is no innocent in this problem, as is said to be. And last but not least, without taking into account the timely efforts of the National Insurance Institute, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance to give a solution to the problem. Even here it is not about pensions themselves, because as a result of the recalculation applied there is no pensioner with a lower pension than the December pension. I argue that this problem is the result of decisions of the previous 46th National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, without qualifying them as populist and so on, but only as decisions that led to the feeling in a large group of people in retirement age of unfair approach in determining their pensions. Super Expectations were created at the expense of overexecution of the state budget and of the state social security budget, without taking into account the future possibilities of the budget of state social security and the state budget. The tension created is not only because they received a few levs lower payment, but also because when recalculating their pensions the approach is unfair without taking into account the individual contribution to the insurance system. And I have no way to dispel this feeling because the consequences of these decisions, including the increase of the minimum pension by 23.3% and reaching 370 BGN, led to more than half of the pensioners in Bulgaria - 1 million 33 thousand and 408 people - to receive the minimum pension. First of all, I would like to point out that there is no lower pension for the month of January 2022 compared to the pension of December 2021. This applies to both employment pensions, retirement pensions and age, disability pensions due to general illness, occupational accident and occupational sickness and inherited pensions, as well as to pensions unrelated to employment, social pension for old age, social disability pension, military and civil invalidity pensions and personal pensions. This is because, as of 25 December 2021, the following changes in pension legislation are in force: The minimum amount of the pension for internship and age grew from 300 BGN. At BGN 370. An increase of 23.3%. With so much increased the size of all pensions for employment in minimum sizes and their calculated supplements. This favored the income of 1 million 33 thousand and 400 pensioners. The amount of social pension for old age increased from BGN 148,71. At 170 BGN, an increase of 14.3%. This favored the income of 58 thousand and 700 pensioners. The rate for each year without conversion was increased from 1.2% to 1.35%, an increase of 12.5%. This has favored the income of 930 thousand and 300 pensioners. The maximum amount of one or more pensions received increased from BGN 1440 to BGN 1500. An increase of 4,3%. This has favored the income of 31,000 and 100 pensioners. The average increase in pensions paid was 12.9% and corresponded to an average growth of 61,25 BGN. This applies to 2 million 47 thousand and 200 pensioners who received a pension both in December 2021 and in January 2022. In relation to a new, higher burden of insurance internship, all pensions for employment have been recalculated from 25 December 2021 on the basis of § 7f of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code. This recalculation was carried out without changing the income from which the pension was calculated and, for each year, the insurance service without conversion, i.e. as calendar time, the rate was increased from 1,2 to 1,35. For the internship, representing the difference between the total internship and the internship, determined without conversion, the rate remained unchanged So decided the Forty-sixth National Assembly. The new way of determining the amounts of pensions after 25 December 2021 and recalculating the pensions allocated before that date have an impact on the pensions of so-called categorical workers, where there is a difference between the internship in calendar time and the total converted insurance service. This is because according to the provisions of art. 104 of the Social Insurance Code in the case of retirement for internship and age the internship is converted, with three years of first category or four years of second category shall be respected for five years internship in the third category. On this basis, when recalculating the pensions of persons having a first and second category service, the percentage increase in the pension is less than the declared average increase of 12.5%, the greater the share of the category service, the further the increase goes away from the maximum increase of 12.5%. The amounts of non-employment-related pensions have also increased since 25 December 2021 in relation to the Council of Ministers' Decree 450-1 of 22 December 2021 to determine a new amount of social pension. As a result of the above changes, the pension amounts of all pensioners were increased from 25 December 2021, with the average increase in the paid amount of pensions being 12.9% and corresponding to an average growth of 61,25 BGN. This applies to 2 million. 47,000. and 200 pensioners who received pensions both in December 2021 and in January 2022. The exception is only in respect of 945 pensioners for whom either there is no change or there is a reduction in the amount of the pension, but these are pensions for which, firstly, there is incorrect information in the database whose pensions have not been recalculated by 25 December 2021 but will be recalculated at a subsequent stage. Second, which has changed the type of pension received, for example by a higher group of permanently reduced performance and degree of disability, to a lower group. And thirdly, for which an official's pension insurance order has entered into force to change the amount of the pension. As compared to December 2021 in January 2022, One million. 68,000. and 100 pensioners receive a smaller total of pension and the additional amount to it. The reason is primarily that in December 2021 the amount of the additional amount paid to the pension is 120 BGN, while in January 2022 is 60 BGN. and the absolute increase as a result of the events held in the paid amount of the total amounts of pensions and supplements of these pensioners is below BGN 60. The difference between BGN 120 and BGN 60 These pensioners are divided mainly into four groups. The first group of pensioners with a retirement pension and age whose pension in December 2021 amounted to above the minimum of BGN 370 to approximately BGN 600. That's 668 thousand. and 100 pensioners for which recalculation with the new burden of the year insurance service leads to an increase in absolute terms of not less than BGN 60. Thus, given that the lump sum in December 2021 was 120 and in January 2022. 60 BGN, a reduction in the total amount of pension and a kind of supplement is obtained. The second group of pensioners has a pension for internship and an age for incomplete internship. That's about 109 thousand. and 100 people, of which about 60,000. and 800 persons are reduced by only 50 pennies compared to December 2021 because they receive a minimum amount pension calculated as 85% of the minimum amount of the retirement and age pension. For the minimum pension of BGN 370. The minimum amount of the pension for incomplete service increases from 255 BGN. up to BGN 314.50, i.e. BGN 59.50. The difference of up to BGN 60 It's only 50 pennies again. The third group of pensioners is: with disability pension due to a total disease with a percentage of permanently reduced performance and type and degree of disability between 50 and 70.99%. That's about 206 grand. And 300 faces. Nearly half of them are 98 thousand. and 200 pensioners, receive a minimum pension and for them the reduction is below one lev. The minimum amount of these pensions is also calculated as 85% of the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age, respectively their increase is also BGN 59.50, as well as for the minimum amounts of pensions for internship and age for incomplete internship. For the other pensioners with a pension above the minimum amount in the calculation with a weight of the year internship with a coefficient of 1,35 does not result in an increase in the pension of an absolute amount of at least 60 BGN. This is expected, insofar as the pensions of disabled persons are lower, they are close or the minimum size for this species. Therefore, the increase in the burden per year of service from 1.2 to 1.3 does not result in a large increase in the absolute amount of the pension. And the fourth group are pensioners with a non-employment-related pension. Those who have a reduction in income with the inclusion of a species supplement are about 58 000 persons. For them, the increase in pension depends mainly on the increase in the amount of the social pension for old age, and it is 14.3%. Given that the amounts of these pensions are lower than those for pensions for employment, the increase of 14.3% cannot lead to an absolute growth of 60 BGN. and more to compensate for the reduction of the additive from 120 to 60 BGN. Something very important related to this government's commitment that no pensioner will receive in January a pension plus a form of supplement lower than the December pension payment plus a kind of supplement. A decision has been taken to address the problem of pensioners whose income from the pension in January 2022 with the inclusion of a species supplement is less than that in December 2021 with the inclusion of a species supplement, to pay a lump sum representing the difference between their income in December and their income in January 2022 with the inclusion of a species of additives. The first payments will be made by the NSI with pensions for February. In February, pensioners will receive the amounts for both January and February. For the following months, they will be paid with pensions for the month concerned and the payment as a whole of pension plus a kind of add-on will be equal to December. These amounts will be paid by the National Insurance Institute by June, until the lump sums of 60 BGN are estimated. The so-called "corrosion supplement." The necessary amount for all concerned is around 17 million. lv. monthly or 104 million in six months. For the period until the adoption of the Budget Act for 2022 and the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 the funds will be provided by the collected non-tax... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just about 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u41	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u42	...untaxable and tax revenue, and after the adoption of the budget laws will be read in the relations between the central budget and the budget of state social security. Another approach may be taken at the discretion of the Ministry of Finance, but the funds are available. For the time until the adoption of the budgetary laws for 2022, it is necessary to have a legal basis for making payments. Therefore, a change to the Bill for the extension of the provisions of the budgetary laws for 2021 to 31 May 2022 is needed. As from 1 July 2022, a regular update under Article is planned. 100 of the Social Security Code. On the basis of preliminary reporting, pensions should be increased by a minimum of 6.1%. In addition, the coalition agreement on the ruling coalition provides for an analysis of the pension system and a solution for a time-resistant pension update mechanism to be carried out within 6 months. If consensus is reached with the social partners, this mechanism may be implemented even after June 2022. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u43	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. I also address you, and perhaps through you and other ministers who will come to the hearings, you and your teams know that you have 10 minutes for an exhibition. Please respect the restriction, however, because you have to speak for more than four minutes more. We are now moving on to the questions in the order of the parliamentary groups. First of all, for a question there is a right to continue the Change. You're welcome to develop your question. I remind you that the questions are within two minutes and the answers are within five.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u44	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In order to prevent confusion among the elderly about what is a pension and which is a cohesive supplement, the idea was presented for the two payments to be made by separate payrolls, as a kind of supplement to be transferred as payment for social assistance. In this regard, Mr. Minister, we would like to ask what are the possibilities, advantages and disadvantages to pay for the add-on as payment for social assistance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Korcheva. [[Heckling]] You have the floor to answer, Minister. Colleagues, in a very loud voice, you are speaking in the Chamber, if we may, to reduce the decibels.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is a very interesting question, because the confusion for people in retirement age when receiving pensions came from the fact that the sum of the pension plus the Kovid supplement people began to consider it a real amount of their pensions. This has led to confusion which is pension and which is a cohesive supplement. There is nothing more logical than that, since the Kovid supplement has a social character I've asked the question and I've always wondered why the government, who introduced the coven supplement, did it through the pension system. By the way, the NSI has serious traditions in paying supplements of a different kind, only none of them have been as long-term as the Kovid supplement. Therefore, the logical and legitimate question is why these payments are in the social system. Thank you for that question. I have to share with you that from the letters of the people who resent the situation, including, I suppose, in Mrs. Sacheva's receptions, they are still oriented in what is a pension and which is an addition, because otherwise they would not be asking logical questions. So I don't doubt that people make a difference, not all of them, of course, and have quite accurate accounts. The main thing is that this is formed by attitudes, including politicians, that all pension benefits will rise by the same percentage and the expectations for the high amount of supplements to be included in the amount of pensions. Now the Social Assistance Agency will make it difficult for all participants in this process, so far experts understand it, and further on, if we move on to such an action, everyone else will understand it. However, this concerns both the Agency for Social Assistance and the pensioners. Because, in order for a pensioner to receive this support, he must receive information on how to transfer these amounts by bank transfer, post offices and so on, moreover, the Social Assistance Agency does not have the capacity to support such a large amount of payments. You see, that's close to two million. And 100,000. pensioners outside the usual activities of the Agency for Social Assistance?! In addition, payments are otherwise organised in the Agency and on other dates for the previous periods, with allowances being paid together with pensions at the beginning of the month to those receiving them by bank transfer and by schedule until the end of the month to which they relate, for all others. And in the ASP, the organisation of the work is payment in the month following the month to which they relate, and the capacity of the ASP is built on the basis of this nature of payment. For pensioners, inconveniences will arise in relation to the submission of applications for the payment of these supplements, and bank accounts are personal information which cannot be provided between the different institutions without the consent of the persons on a business basis. The main problem is, again, communication. Together with the NSIs, we are working on identifying an approach where individuals will be able to clearly, categorically and unambiguously understand what part of the amount received during the month is from their personal pension, supplemental or compensation. As for the main issue, the transfer of all payments without the nature of insurance from the NSIs to the ASP, I take the liberty of pointing out that this is a very serious and in-depth discussion that needs to be held, which is also included in the coalition agreement on which we will have to work actively. We have the will in dropping the Kovid supplement, the opportunity adopted by the 46th National Assembly for new social assistance aimed precisely at pensioners to complement their pension to the poverty line, to be paid by the Social Assistance Agency and to actually complement pensioners' incomes to the poverty line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u47	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next up is the group of the political party GERB-SDS. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! In what form will compensations be made, which should also be individual for each person and will range from 50 pennies to 30 leva, will be shaped as an individual supplement or otherwise? For the supplement of 60 leva. it is clear that it will be dropped after 1 July 2022. At least such are the requests so far. And what about the compensations, will they also be dropped, or will they be put into pensions with a new proposal in some form of recalculation, or the update of July 1st? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u49	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Krastev, yes, will be individually supplemented to each pension up to the amount of the December pension with a new addition. The mechanism on which this complementarity is to be granted is still being worked. Here, more importantly, all pensioners should be aware that pensions plus allowances in January, February by June will be equal to December, as was the article in the public domain. The mechanism will be such that pensioners will not be harmed. I know that many of the people's representation and people are worried that people will get mixed up in some accounts again - what is an addition, a 60 BGN, what is the complement of this supplement to the December pension, which is the real pension. But I rely on the intelligence of the Bulgarian pensioner and his ability to distinguish these things. Yeah, you're right, right now the Kovid supplement is until June. Depending on how the situation will develop, it can be extended further.. God forbid this happens, but sooner or later it will be dropped because it is with the nature of a temporary payment of the supplement of the pension, an addition to the pension. Then the Bulgarian National Assembly must find a solution. We will prepare together with the National Insurance Institute by June. By analyzing the possibilities, we will offer them to the National Assembly. How will the issue of pensioners be resolved? My wish is to do this with a permanent increase in pensions, not with supplements, but in what way the National Assembly will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Now comes the order of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.........................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, the number of pensioners who received a total income less than the income received in December 2021 on 7 January is 1 million. 73,000. And 800 people. The number of pensioners in Bulgaria is 2 million. And 80 grand. Souls. In the course of the update of the budget of state social security for 2021, we from the Parliamentary Group of Then he was disproved by the Minister of Service Assen Vassilev that such a problem does not exist and there will be no such problem. After only two or three months, we saw that this problem covered over 1 million. And 73,000. Souls and it became clear who was lying on the national air. Our question to you, Minister, is as follows: what are the measures taken by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance to solve the problem? Because you and your coalition partners have promised before the elections that there will be no pension lower than that in December 2021. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ali. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Ali! I didn't want to get into political debates on a matter like pensions, because we're going to leave the people again, the pensioners with some feelings about who's wrong and who's right. I told you in my main statement that there are no innocents in the matter. I remember very well the decision of the 46th National Assembly because I was part of it. I can tell you what this is about, but in all likelihood colleagues who were members of the 46th National Assembly have already informed their colleagues who were not. At the time, the proposal of the caretaker government was only a withdrawal of the cod supplement and an increase in pensions by recalculating them, increasing the coefficient from 1.2 to 1.35. That was the government's wish. Then there were proposals for the continuation of the supplement in the same form. 50 BGN, then there was the proposal from one of the political forces in the National Assembly to be 100 BGN, then there was the proposal between the first and second voting of another political force Kovid the supplement to be 120 BGN. Then from the political decisions of the 46th National Assembly there was a mixture of all proposals and desires and finally there was an increase in the coefficient from 1.2 to 1.35 and a Kovid supplement of 120 leva. For the fairness of the Kovid supplement, as from one political force here it has been stated that it is not the job of the caretaker government to make such lasting recalculations of pensions by changing the coefficient, and it is therefore better to give a supplement that is higher but that compensates pensioners to the regular government to adopt a regular budget. However, I say again: because of political decisions, various mixtures of proposals have been made here and we have come to this proposal. I beg you very much: do not use the word "liar" on the national air. You contradict yourself because you said the benefits will not be lower. [[DPS lines.]] Yes, pensions are not lower! No pensioner's pension is lower than the December pensioner's. The pension! However, the payment of the pension plus the addition of that 1 million. and 73 thousand, which you are quoting, the compensation did not reach for the difference from the reduction of BGN 60. That's where the pension problem came from. I want to say one more thing. Nobody lied to the government. The government's will and desire was that this would happen, and it would happen from February, with people being compensated. The word "compensated" is not the right one, but people will receive their December payments - a pension plus a form of supplements, both in January and February, and so on, by June, with the January payment being slightly delayed with the February pensions. I graduated.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u55	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. The order of the BSP for Bulgaria is coming......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u56	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Under the conditions of the ever-growing price of electricity, fuels and essential goods, pensioners are the most vulnerable group. From 25 December 2021, a clear request was made to recalculate pensions with the assurance that all pensioners in January 2022 will receive amounts equal to those of December 2021. However, many pensioners expressed their discontent that in January 2022 they received lower amounts compared to those received in December 2021. Why did this happen after the pensions were recalculated from 25 December 2021, and what will be undertaken to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I guess we're gonna have to go around this, 'cause that's all it's gonna be about, the pensions and how they're gonna be compensated. Once again, I'm going to explain why this happened. This is because of political decisions back in time. The entire pension system, which is currently in operation, the legislation in force in the area of pension insurance relations, is a result of many expert efforts, but also of many political interferences. That's the way it is with the current situation. The current situation was due to the decision of the Forty-sixth National Assembly, which mixed expert solutions with political decisions for the pension system and led to chaos at the moment. I do not blame anyone from the Forty-Sixth National Assembly because there were political interests, expert decisions and searching for solutions for people of retirement age who are one of the most vulnerable groups in this crisis. I continue to argue that the increase that took place on an average of 12.9%, almost no analogue in the last 10 years, is good for all pensioners and has led to an increase in their pensions. Everyone in Bulgaria should be aware that the so-called bone supplement, no matter how long we drag it out, cannot be continued to infinity and must seek solutions for pensions. These decisions must be taken by all of us, if you will with expert decisions, if you will by political compromises, but for example on 31 July 2022, people of retirement age should know what their pensions will be. Again, I say from this tribune that whatever decisions we make should in no way lead to the reduction of pensions or to the retention of these levels. Economic growth and inflation at the moment, which will develop in the future, should enable pensions to increase as the average social security income rises. What decisions we will make for the pension system depends on all of us and on our responsibility to the people who built this country, and now we must have decent old age and not offer them the size of these pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u59	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is such a people, Mr. Karimansky, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, my question really relates to how we can distinguish clearly and accurately the recalculation of pensions for the Bulgarian pensioners and the social supplement. In the Forty-sixth National Assembly, I personally warned from this tribune all MPs that there must be a recalculation of the pension on the basis of a real insurance service, because I think it is fair. Mrs. Mika Zaykova also said that this is... [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] Yes, on the basis of income, thank you. From this tribune Mrs. Mika Zaykova said about the real insurance income and the need for such updating of pensions. However, no one heard us and started bidding for social supplements for a Kovid.... were bidding by GERB, bidding by DPS so that they could finally slip the pensioners and throw them in some way a delusion that there is a real increase in their pension with the supplement. Therefore, I ask you to answer clearly, exactly, if you have such information. If we divide the social supplement and it is paid on a separate date from the pension, I think you said it, but once again I provoke you to say: is there a pension that, at the update proposed on 25 December and divided by the social supplement, is reduced and there is a pensioner who receives a lower pension based on the recalculation? Please be firm in your answer to make it clear, and from then on, pensioners are quite wise people to find out who slipped them with the social supplement. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u61	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Karimanski, thank you for the question, because it gives me once again a clear opportunity to state that there is no pension for the month of January that is lower than the December pension. There's a difference in the total payment of pension plus a kind of supplement. To be more convincing, I will repeat the numbers that are about increasing pensions by groups. The average increase in pensions paid was 12.9% and corresponded to an average growth of 61,25 BGN. It refers to 2 million. 47,000. and 200 pensioners who received a pension in December 2021 and January 2022, i.e. all Bulgarian pensioners. All pensioners have received increases in their pensions, and the exception is only for those for whom the decision of the competent authorities, leading to a change in the amount of the pension, such as those with a decision of TELK, has entered into force. They are a defined group, which is a lower percentage, with permanently reduced performance, type and degree of disability. I fatly stress that these are only 950 people who are not deprived of an increase, but simply their increase will be further in time and in the calculation of the pension when possible on the basis of the documents presented. Since 25 December 2021, certain amendments to pension legislation have entered into force. The minimum amount of the pension for internship and age grew from 300 BGN. At BGN 370. It is increased by 22.3%, with so much increasing the amount of all pensions for employment, minimal amount and calculated supplements to them. This has a beneficial effect on the income of 1 million. 33,000. And 400 pensioners. The amount of social pension for old age increased from BGN 148,71. At 170 leva. And that's an increase of 14.3%. This has a beneficial effect on the income of 58 thousand. And 700 pensioners. The percentage for each year without conversion of insurance service increased from 1.2% to 1.35%, i.e. the increase was 12.5%. This has a beneficial effect on the income of 930 thousand. And 300 pensioners. The maximum amount of one or more pensions received increased from BGN 1400. At 1500 leva. An increase of 4,3%. This has a beneficial effect on the income of 31,000. And 100 pensioners. From what has been said so far, there is no reduction in any pension, and there is an increase in all pensions. From this position I can say that the Bulgarians are not misled. They are really misled by what you are saying, the Kovid supplement, which was at the same time as the increase in pension and with this serious amount, leads to huge costs, as it has a form of social assistance. It was distributed, as we say in Bulgaria, to a kapak, i.e. to everyone equally for people who have a greater need for such assistance and for people who do not need this assistance at all. Mrs. Sacheva will confirm that when this codicil was introduced, the idea is to cover the costs of pensioners for medicines to some extent. The calculations then showed that these costs for a pensioner were an average of around BGN 53 and BGN 54. And they stopped at 50 leva. Coat supplement. 120 leva. is a disproportionately large supplement. When I say this is a disproportionately large addition, I am not saying that pensioners do not need an increase in pensions, but only a fair increase, an increase according to the insurance contribution, an increase according to what they have given, and you can take one, because you cannot take a little more than half of the pensioners to take a minimum pension, since they do not have the same contribution. And everyone else who has no contribution to the system, of course we will not let them die of hunger, but to supplement them to the poverty line must be done through the social system with a new kind of help that established the previous National Assembly, because it has also done good work in updating the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u63	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, it is clear how important it is to communicate properly with the people............ exactly what happens to the final amounts of pensions that they actually receive. Here it was heard that in the payment of pensions in the last month, actually about 1 million pensioners did not receive a real increase of 12.5%, which should have come from the index from 1.2 to 1.35. I would therefore ask you, if you could explain in detail: in groups where this increase of 12 and a half did not occur, how did it come about from the low to medium and to the highest pensions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, these pensioners are basically four groups. The first group of pensioners have a pension for retirement and age, whose pension in December 2021 was at the minimum amount of 370 BGN. up to about 600 BGN, is, by the way, the most affected group in relation to the amount of payments in January compared to December. This group is 668 thousand. and 100 pensioners, for which the recalculation with the new burden for the year internship leads to an increase in absolute terms of less than BGN 60. Given that the lump sum in December 2021 was 120 BGN and in January 2022 it is 60 BGN, there is a reduction in the total amount of the pension and a combination of the supplement. The second group of pensioners are retired with a retirement pension for an internship and an internship age. That's about 109 thousand and 100 faces, and for about 60 thousand. and 800 persons are reduced to only 50 cents in December because they receive a minimum pension calculated as 85% of the minimum amount of the retirement and age pension. With a minimum pension of BGN 370. reach the difference of 50 pennies compared to December. The third group is pensioners with disability pension due to general illness and group, percentage and permanent reduced performance, type and degree of disability between 50 and 70.9%. That's about 206 300 faces. Nearly half of them, or 98 200 pensioners, receive a minimum pension and for them the reduction is below one lev. The minimum amount of these pensions is also calculated as 85% of the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age, respectively their increase is BGN 59.50. For the other pensioners with a pension above the minimum amount of the recalculation with a weight of the year of 1,35 does not result in an increase in the pension of an absolute amount of at least 60 BGN. These famous 60 leva. of the reduced species supplement from 120 to 60 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u67	63,20 leva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u68	Therefore, the increase in the burden per year of service from 1.2 to 1,35. The service is less for explainable reasons, does not result in a large increase in the absolute amount of the pension. And the fourth group are pensioners with non-employment-related pensions. Those who have a reduction in income with the inclusion of a species supplement are about 58 thousand persons. For them, the increase in pension basically depends on the increase in the amount of the social pension for old age, and it is 14.3%. Given that the size of these pensions are generally lower than the usual minimum levels for employment, the increase of 14.3% cannot lead to an absolute growth of 60 BGN. and compensate for the reduction of the additive from 60 to 120 BGN. I will complete the answers to each of my questions that this has happened, but the will of this government is to remove this problem and the promise... or whatever you want to call it that January payments will not be lower than December and will be a fact from February 1st.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u69	The question is why is it not a fact and not a fact that will be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u70	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. And in this round are the last of the ARCHIVErs...............................then come in, Mr Ganev.................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u71	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! The truth is that many figures have spoken, I suppose, justified is absolutely everything you said, but what our fathers, mothers, grandparents eventually received at the end of the month a large part of them, a million and 200 thousand, lower pensions. I believe you will compensate them with what is to come, but it is extremely unpleasant at this very moment. In this regard, my question is this. Running away from all this canonade of numbers that you read half an hour ago, for half an hour, I want to give a little, to illustrate for all the people who are currently watching and listening to what we have as a hearing to you. In 2021, a minimum pension could be bought on average around 270 breads, now with a minimum pension around 370 BGN. You can buy 174 breads. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] We have an increase in money, at the same time we have what each of us, including the pensioners, see a galloping inflation. We have inflation that is destroying already the miserable pensions that are receiving the people who have built this country. In this regard: what policies does the government foresee in the forthcoming budget to be voted on? Does the government intend to propose and discuss at least an extraordinary indexing of pensions? As I say again, inflation rates are frightening at 7.3 officially by statistics, we all know that this is absolutely nothing, because when you go to the store, food prices are colossally high compared to previous months, not to say years. Therefore, I repeat: what does the government have in general and will there be an emergency indexation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u72	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ganev, the truth is, as you say, that there is not a pension lower than December and that there will be no payment to pensioners lower than December. The canonade of numbers and numbers is that the pension system is numbers and numbers, many accounts, a matter of budget opportunities, and the budget is numbers, so I'm pouring numbers and numbers on you. It is a good comparison that you make for bread, because I am also impressed by inflation, and believe me, the government will have policies to compensate for this inflation, including pensioners. But I don't think your question is the subject of today's hearing. Pretty soon this debate, which you are raising here on this subject, will be heated, spilled in the National Assembly at the adoption of the budget. I will ask you until then to remain calm and see what the policies of the government and the proposals of the parliamentary groups will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u74	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. With that, we've run out of the first round of questions. Let's move on to the second one. Is there a question? I can't see. From GERB-SDS? You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u75	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev said there will be no pensioner to receive money under the line of poverty. We all know that this was part of the election campaign of the Political Party. This was probably said by the assumption that the minimum pension was accepted to be BGN 370. at the time when the poverty line was BGN 369. Dear colleagues, Minister, from 1 January 2022, however, the poverty line is BGN 413. Therefore, my question to you is: will it complement social assistance in any way, the pensions that are below this amount, how and since when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u76	Thank you, Mr. Lachowski. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will repeat again: no pensioner will be under December payment, no pensioner under the poverty line, yes, and that will be so. Currently the line of poverty is BGN 413, but when you put the supplement that pensioners receive to their pensions of BGN 60, a minimum pension becomes BGN 430. All other groups that are under the minimum pension 430 BGN, one way or another, receive support from the state. I assure you that with the new help, which I say again, set up I will use this word, the forty-sixth National Assembly, aimed primarily at the people of retirement age, will enter into force if necessary, and it will be carried out under the Agency for Social Assistance. How long has it been? Since when it's necessary. Something I just want to add to the poverty line. You know that the new methodology calculates this line of poverty and we will closely monitor the groups that fall under this line of poverty, with the idea not only of a pensioner, but of no Bulgarian living below the threshold of this line of poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u78	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. From the DPS? Mr. Ademov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, we have attended many such hearings, many such debates, which by definition end without any result, and I will therefore allow myself, in the form of a question, to make a recommendation which I think is extremely important. But I would like to go back a little bit in time and comment on what you said about the end of the forty-sixth parliament when we were discussing this discussion that we are talking about right now. Dear Mr. Gokov, what you have said is not exactly so, it is not true, in other words. Why? Because at the end of the forty-sixth parliament, the then-service minister of finance Assen Vassilev suggested that the surplus of revenues in the state budget of 1 billion and 600 million be distributed as a measure. I'm emphasising it as a kind of measure! Like a billion and 600 million were for a kind of measure, and the rest were up to 2 billion and 400 million for business support. That was the discussion then. Against this background, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy from the cabinet proposed an update of the state social security budget and with this update obliged the next parliament by 1 billion and 600 million. This was the project with the increase of the coefficient from 1.2 to 1.35. That's what this project is worth. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and other colleagues from other parliamentary groups proposed alternative solutions how to use this additional financial resource, because it was included in the section "Antikovide measures." And that is why we have proposed this anti-coffee measure with the clear awareness that it is a temporary measure, that it is not at all about increasing pensions in this way. The main question is how to separate the rest of the pension, the basic amount of the pension, from the species of additives. Therefore, my proposal coincides with Mr. Karimanski's proposal: could it be on a separate date, for example, as an advance to pensions, by June to pay this model measure? To make it clear to the Bulgarian pensioners the basic amount of pensions is as follows and to make the supplement as it is? First question. The second question, can it be because a lot is being commented here that the measure should be according to the insurance contribution? There's no such thing. There's no such thing. Why? Because anti-covide measures are horizontal measures. All suffered in the same way by the Kovid crisis and it does not matter what their insurance contribution is when it comes to anti-coffee measures. It's not social security. This goes within the framework of the support. And because then Galab Donev had suggested that these pensions, which are below the poverty line, should be paid through social assistance and that you then supported this thesis. Now it turns out that if this money goes to social assistance, that's not possible. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. This is possible and you know very well, but you need some effort, you should all bear the inconvenience that everyone should apply for this support. And that's why my question is: do you think it's a good match by the end of June, because I see that supplements are piling up on supplements, given separately as an advance to the pension, for example on the first number of each month, because pensions are distributed between the seventh and the 21st of each month?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. You have the floor, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Ademov, you have used the opportunity to say what your political power has offered in the previous parliament and I will take this opportunity to answer what I and my political power offered in the Forty-sixth National Assembly. Then, from the National Assembly's stand, I warned that what we are doing is not normal and we are not making permanent decisions about the size of pensions and I really agreed that it is not the job of a caretaker government to give permanent decisions about the pension system. Then, on behalf of my political power, BSP stated that this increase in the burden of insurance service is good and leads to an increase in pensions according to the insurance contribution and is a lasting policy led by the BSP in this direction even up to 1.5 increase in burden, but together it deepens the differences between the old pensions granted before 2008. Before the last recalculation, and the new pensions will lead to tensions in the pension system among the people. Therefore, in parallel to the increase in the burden ratio of one insurance year, there must be some recalculation of pensions with a more up-to-date social security income. This is necessary because of the action back in the time of art. 100 of the Social Security Code, which must update pensions from every 1 July that has either not been applied or applied in different ways and is not adequate and therefore lag behind so many old pensions. So much for the policies of BSP that we have proposed and that I have followed. The additions may be paid separately. I wonder why at the very beginning this separate payment of pensions supplements has not been introduced so that people will not be confused. I say people don't get as confused as politicians get when they talk to them. All of this, however, relates to additional payments that are not at all small.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u82	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u83	People who receive their pensions at the post office can sign, so to speak, in different payrolls and see what their pension is and what the amount of an add-on is, but in the banking system, if pensions are translated even on the same day in different ways, this difference will not be made. I'm sorry to talk a little longer, but I have to make it very clear that I didn't say anything and I'm not going to back down from the fact that the pension system has to take out social payments. However, when we take these social payments out, in this case, the Kovid supplement can lead to serious difficulties both in the face of the Agency for Social Assistance and the other party, who do not know how to act in order to obtain the supplements. The pension system is distorted to such a degree by these social payments that go through it, that it makes sense that people are logically mistaken and logically we come to today's situation in which they do not know what their pension is, what is added to them, what their contribution to a system is and what is given to them by the state. I think they need to be paid separately so people can make a difference. I think social payments should be taken out of the pension system. I think and say firmly that as long as we take this supplement out of the pension system and turn it into the social system.. Keep in mind the ASA, the month of June will pass and people will not navigate and the time will come when we stop the supplement. So I also call on the people's representation when we introduce some such supplements, in this case, to the pensioners, but also to whomever, to make a very careful distinction between systems and not to mix them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u84	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. It is the turn of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! My question is also related to a species of additives. Kovid supplements have been paid to pensions since early 2021, although these supplements are of a temporary nature as long as there is an emergency situation, they have become a really integral part of the pensioners' incomes and helped them get through the crisis and increased prices of medicines and food. Of course, there's a reason. For the past 2021 by consumer price index in base year 1995 by the National Statistical Institute food prices increased by 25%, medicines by 6%, November inflation was over 7%. This is the last reported by the National Statistical Institute. The government's decision is to pay the supplements of BGN 60. of pensioners by the middle of the year. Unfortunately, the economic consequences of the crisis need to be overcome, not deepened. Taking into account that pensioners are one of the most vulnerable groups for which every lev is relevant, my question to you and to your team is: what do you think are the possible solutions after 30 June, while you will be paying off the 60 levs.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Emilova. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Emilova, what you said as a preamble to your question is extremely important. We should all bear in mind that prices are rising. The reaction of both the pension and the social system is slightly late to rising prices, but we are in such a situation anyway and we need to look for solutions. About your question: what are the possible solutions after 30 June, while paying off the 100-bit supplements of 60 BGN.? I would like to say to you, firstly, that the payment of the cod add-on, as you have mentioned, is scheduled until June 2022. As of 1 July 2022, a regular update under Article is scheduled. 100 of the Social Security Code. On the basis of the information previously reported, pensions should be increased by a minimum of 6.1%. I'm telling you, this is if we respect the Bulgarian legislation under normal conditions. Not to do like some other people who decided that by updating the pensions they will keep the hole in the state budget, I am talking about the years 2009, 2010 and 2011, which in violation of the Bulgarian legislation. 100 CSR, not applied. In addition, in our coalition agreement it is envisaged that an analysis of the pension system will be carried out within six months and a solution for a time-resistant mechanism for updating pensions. That's what we're working on. Of course, it will be based on expert estimates, and if consensus is reached with the coalition and social partners, this mechanism can be applied as early as June 2022. Here very carefully, the attention of the entire people's representation is the responsibility not to continue with the distortion of this pension system, because we have brought it with political decisions so that no one knows what it gets, why it gets it, what its contribution is and why its pension is higher or lower than the other. Once again, I would like to raise the issue that BSP and I have raised seriously over the years: we need to take another step in the area of pensions, namely recalculation of pensions based on current social security income. This will reduce the differences between the so-called old and new pensions. We cannot continue to observe this difference and its growth. It is very nice that the average social security income is constantly increasing and I am ready to take all measures to make it grow, but we cannot expect it to find no impact on the individual size of pensions. My personal opinion is that we should take this measure from the beginning of July 2022 and only then look for a sustainable solution in the area of the pension system. We must bear in mind that it is too conservative and fast and sharp movements in it cannot be taken, and it also affects the interests and rights of all who work and contribute insurance and those who receive pensions. Of course, I continue to argue that for myself, a single application of recalculation of pensions with a more up-to-date social security income in no way solves the problem of the adequacy of pensions, i.e. the size of pensions, but decides to some extent the differences between old and new pensions. And one such recalculation is even compensation for misapprehension. The application is not incorrect because it has been legally decided to update the pensions through 50% of inflation and 50% of the increase in average income, but it has proved that, in addition to its implementation, it has not resulted in these people having the same social contribution to receive pensions with the same social contribution from subsequent years. This is one of the injustices we need to overcome, but it is all a matter of political decisions in the ruling coalition, in opposition proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u88	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. There's such a people here for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The question from "There is such a people" is rather practical. After all the speeches, answers, questions and so on we are all aware that Bulgarian pensioners will receive a pension amount not lower than that of December. My question, Mr. Minister, is this: in the future, when such supplements are imposed, recalculations and so on, is there a possibility that these recalculations can be played out in advance? What do I mean? If the NSI software allows, and if it does not allow, it could be renovated, to make these calculations, to compare the amounts and not to get into a situation like explaining to people, they could get under, higher or whatever pension, and we would lose parliamentary time and explain how we have good intentions, but did not get them. That's my specific question. Would you, purely software, accept such a proposal for this recalculation to be played out in advance, i.e. analyzed, and only then to be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Trajanska. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Trajanska, I will start with this not as a remark, but you have also used the term "pensions" will not be lower than..................... So we're talking that pensions really aren't lower. I repeat this, just to be clear, all the January payments won't be lower, plus the pension, plus a kind of add-on. Let's just separate them. Otherwise, what you are saying is a pre-replaying of the situation of all the increases would be good and would save from this public tension. Leave the parliamentary time, but the public tension. I fully agree with you on whether it will be done softwarely, whether it will be done manually or anyway, but not to go into such a situation again. At the moment we were in such a situation because you see that the decision was the previous National Assembly, there was a time when this decision to enter into effect, very short was the time from the drawing up of the government to the calculation, if you will be overconfidenced by this government to the decisions of the previous National Assembly without verification. We've fallen into this situation anyway. I assure you that from now on I will very carefully monitor from my position as Minister of Labour and Social Policy not to go into such situations, and when we do some social action, to introduce society in advance, although society is supposed to be familiar. These debates about any decision in the social sphere are also being held in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, but for a wider public discussion, preparing society for the adoption of decisions, seeking consensus among the public for all decisions that will be taken from now on, so that we do not go into such a situation, my answer is to do what you wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u92	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Welcome to the second question by the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! We have repeated many times, many things and discussed quite in detail on the subject, we should make an almost final clarification, which is really important. It is clear to all of us, as MPs, that we will never be able to deprive the pensioners of the amount that we have and we do not want to do so, of the amount that they now receive as an extraordinary Christmas supplement. That is, from now on, we have a few months to solve the problem in general and after June, as the minister said several times, in fact, this amount will become part of the regular payments to the pensioners. What the minister noted is that for him, as far as I understand it, the extraordinary payment and the extraordinary nature of the supplement is not a good option and that this money should be decided by us as the National Assembly how to be part of the pension itself. On the other hand, the minister noted that reforming the pension system is something that is complicated, long and difficult. In this sense of the word I wanted to ask the Minister: does he think that after June this money should remain as a social add-on by going to the ASA as he suggested, for some time, or should we go to a general solution as early as June? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Belobradova, I am for permanent decisions in the pension system and no addition to this with such supplements. The lasting decision to increase pension income is a matter of policy that will lead this government as well. I really think that after June I am not talking about the mechanical entry of these supplements, which are now being obtained in the amount of the pension. The size of pensions must grow according to what contribution the person has made to the social security system. On this point, I am firm and I think there will be no people in this room who think differently. The other thing I believe and I am convinced, and I also believe that I will have no difference with everyone in this House, is that all people who have not reached the necessary size to live normally on their pensions must be supported through the social assistance system, and to the line to the poverty line, in so far as it is calculated adequately, which enables them to live more dignifiedly. So that's my answer to the question. After June, I want there to be a lasting solution for the pension system, and all those in need of assistance to be supported through the social system, through the Social Assistance Agency, and in terms that give them the right to a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u96	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. And one last question from ARCHIVER, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister, first of all, I would like to make a remark to you, as we have heard several times from this tribune today that there are no innocents in this room in connection with the pension system. I don't think so. We, at the age of old, consider ourselves innocent because we are in this Chamber for the first time. So be careful with such statements! [[Noise and lines from Continue The Change, DPS and GERB-SDS.]] Thank you, thank you for your support. In relation to what you have said so far, I have the following question: you said that from June the Kovid supplement will be dropped, in which case... And you also said that you have developed a policy that could potentially increase pensions by 6% from 1 July. Is it thought in the direction that the government has developed a scheme or policy on which it can increase the income of pensioners so that after 1 July there are no pensioners who are below the poverty line? In such a way that despite the six percent increase you will make from 1 July, the minimum pension will remain below the poverty line. Also a social pension. You said you would think policies in this direction with social supplements to be corrected, but will you ensure that after 1 July there will be no people below the poverty line, including pensioners who will not be able to have social assistance so that they are compensated in such a way that they get over the poverty threshold. Keep in mind that inflation will increase this poverty threshold and it will not be BGN 413. July 1st, and he'll be much taller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u98	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleagues of ARGUING, I do not find it necessary to apologize to anyone, innocent in this House indeed does not, because the situation that has happened in recent days, recent months, around pensions is a consequence not only of the actions or omissions of the parliamentary parties presented back in time, but is a consequence of the political speech in which you have also actively participated. So I have nothing to apologize for in this case. Your question, which you are asking about the increase by 6.1%, is the Bulgarian legislation, the Social Security Code, the famous art. 100, which, from the beginning of my speeches here, I have been quoting dozens of times already, obliges everyone, including the National Insurance Institute, to carry out such updating. If he doesn't, he'll be in violation of the law. If the National Assembly decides this update, as it has decided 2017, 2018 and 2019, this update can be done in another way. But at the moment the estimated percentage of the increase in pensions from 1 July under art. 100 of the Social Security Code, which states that every year from 1 July pensions are updated with the average of 50% of the increase in insurance income and 50% of the increase in inflation in the previous year, shows that 6.1% should increase pensions. I very much hope that by 1 July we will have a solution on this and, as you said, inflation is going up, this increase will be significantly higher. I also think that as much as I do not want to say, we should bear in mind that this type of supplement will not be paid to infinity and in some way must those who need a higher amount of pension should be, how to say the word compensation is not the right word, but it will be used because I do not find another one to be compensated in any way with these 60 levs, which people are already adding to their pension. That's my answer. There is no government that thinks in the direction of how to say it, to harm its citizens. Therefore, from this point of view, I say that, together with the National Assembly, when adopting the budget, we must decide and then, in the decisions on the pension system together with the National Assembly, we must decide where the funds will come from and where the funds will go. Because you are aware that in the pension system since 2004, I think, but may have been, since earlier, it is complemented, not to say dots, from the state budget, that is, from funds that are not intended for this purpose, the pension system is being dominated. So the decisions are joint decisions of the government and parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u100	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. We are now moving on to the final part of our procedure in which the parliamentary groups have five minutes to express their attitude towards the Minister's answers. Political party We continue the Change, i.e. the political party group. We continue the Change.................................... you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I believe that, in today's discussion, we were able to answer and inform the public about the issue of the update of pensions and the issue of the mechanism that will be introduced to compensate those who received a lower amount of January compared to December. When we talk about the pension system, we need to realize that we are talking about a justice system, and justice is expressed in all of us as insured persons and pensioners to know that when we enter at the time of retirement, we will receive what is adequate to what we have provided, and there is not a single group of pensioners who are privileged to everyone else. In talks with pensioners, I have received even such a statement that pensioners tend to receive a lower increase as long as this justice is achieved. Since 2009, there have been many injustices. Thank you to the Minister for sharing the detailed analysis of the pension system by the end of July to provide for measures to enter into force from July to begin work on the elimination of this injustice. It is about the update of pensions against social security income, too, which was last done in 2008, and pensioners who are hit by this thing are in this period by the old pensions, which, with a social contribution, a pensioner who retired 2009, and one who is 2015, there is a very big difference in pension. We are also talking about continuing the increase of the potential internship rate, so all of this will be refined in the coming months together with the NSI, we will require detailed information to be stepped on. I would like to assure the current pensioners and the current pensioners that we will be betting on a fair model of a pension system. Thank you. [[Applause from Continued Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u102	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. GERB-SDS? Mrs. Sacheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u103	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, thank you for this hearing and for the answers you gave. I'll allow myself to comment on the beginning of your presentation, in which you suspected that this hearing might have a very selfish purpose, and I can assure you there are none. But let me tell you our doubts and worries that, in fact, the aims of the caretaker government with the supply of precisely such a model of recalculation. All of us in this Chamber, whether we acknowledge it publicly or not, we know well that it served the election campaign both to President Radev and to a significant extent to our colleagues from As for the supplements, to whether they were populism, or not populism, whether they had distorted the system or not, I definitely want to state here by this tribune that without these supplements we would have had protests from the pensioners because we have rising prices that was recognized by all the speakers here, you all know that. The missionaries would not have been able to endure the winter October, November and December if they did not have an increased addition of 120 BGN. Surely these supplements have made a very serious contribution to making pensioners feel more relaxed. That is why we must do everything we need not to do so that, with the compensation to be given, we must create tension again. Because in February the pensioners will take two compensations for January and February, then again in March they will take only one compensation and there can certainly be confusion as to why one pension is less than another. It is no accident that we asked you about the compensations as well...........................that they will stop from 1 July, no matter how different they are at the moment and create additional difficulties in the system, because you understand from the Minister's answers that on February 7 February there will be pensioners who will receive 1 lev compensation................................................................ January and 50th. for February. Then we don't have to ask why you get 50 centimeters, why you get 1 lev. Our appeal is to consider very well all solutions, especially those related to compensation, because they will be between 50 cm. And 30 leva. and accordingly, as has been mentioned repeatedly here, to find a way for pensioners to have a clear idea of what forms their basic pension, which constitutes an addition, which constitutes compensation. I do not agree with the fact that the Agency for Social Assistance cannot carry out such activity, at least because it carried out such activity in April 2021. Then 396 thousand pensioners were given an add-on of 120 BGN. None of them submitted an application, none of them were evaluated. The bank accounts and all the information relating to these pensioners were provided by the National Insurance Institute by an official means. So we already have this practice and we could build on what has already happened once. I don't believe any of you remember having any problems in May 2021. If there was a pensioner who said he got less money, that he was confused, that he didn't know what was added to it, which was his pension. In conclusion, what I would like to make as an appeal: after all, Mr. Gokov is a person with 30 years of experience in the system, so I believe that he will be useful for what needs to be analyzed in the next six months. Colleagues from.. Continue The Change.............................................. the Change. has probably already felt that we often ironized these two words............................................. However, this time we very seriously urge you to analyse, really analyse properly within the next six months, because major errors in the pension system would lead to serious problems not only in the social but also in the financial stability of the state. Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. From the DPS? Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u105	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Dear Mr. Gokov, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, Dear Mr. Governor of the National Insurance Institute! Mr. Gokov, sadly, we cannot be satisfied with your answers for a very simple reason we did not get the answer to the most important question: why was there a difference between the promises of high-ranking politicians from the ruling coalition and what they received as a total income 1 million 73 thousand and 800 pensioners in Bulgaria? This is the most important question to be answered. I want to go back to what happened at the end of the mandate of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly because that's where the problems started. The first problem was that you didn't listen to the majority, there was no one to listen to. Then the office submitted a proposal which fully served President Radev's presidential campaign. This was extremely important because we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and in no way could agree with what he had said, on the one hand, the Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev. He said that these billion and 600 million are for anti-coffee measures. However, the caretaker cabinet has proposed a very different thing - strategic policies for the development of the pension system, which they have burdened, I repeat, this National Assembly with an additional billion and 600 million, as much as the increase in the ratio is worth. The most important issue that we need to resolve right now is: how to divide the temporary additional, I repeat, a kind of measure of the basic amount of the pension that is being received. There are two options here, in my opinion, and according to some of my fellow Members in plenary: first of all, this additional form of supplement to be paid by the Social Assistance Agency, as it has nothing to do with the insurance system. This is not a payment that depends on the contribution. This should in no way be perceived as a social security payment, because, in essence, I repeat, is a horizontal measure and does not matter the social contribution. All Bulgarian citizens, including pensioners, are equal to the crisis. Next. Dear Minister Gokov, at the end of the Forty-sixth National Assembly, I come back to this end several times for a reason, because that's where all these problems have started. You proposed, or rather, the office proposed, an update of the budget of state social security, the minister of finance proposed to allocate 1 billion and 600 million as anti-coffid measures. We and our colleagues from GERB proposed alternative measures to what the office offered.. We offered these 120 BGN because these 120 BGN. were possible on the basis of the financial resources available. Then we categorically stated: this is an anti-coffid measure, which is a temporary measure, and it is good to give it away from the pension. What have you done from now on? From now on, what you've done is you've replaced 120 leva. 60 leva. However, what is written in the Social Security Code is that from 25 December 2021 the coefficient per year internship is increased from 1.20 to 1.35 and in practice for a large part of the pensioners the new coat supplement does not result in this increase by 60 BGN. I want to tell you a few groups that take under those 60 levs, and that's where it comes to that number of 1 billion and 73 thousand: 673 thousand are the people who get an increase of less than 60 levs for insurance and age. thanks to the update with the new coefficient. There is one other group of 200,000 who are interns, another group of 60 thousand who are non-labour-related pensions. This whole group forms this 1 million and 73 thousand pensioners. The lack of any communication between the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance and the National Insurance Institute led to this. Because you, if you had the preliminary information that this increase, this new bonus you offer, up to BGN 60. would lead to a lower total, you should have proposed another measure, not the one that led to this difference. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. So please don't blame the National Insurance Institute because there are experts working there who at 12:00 in the middle of the night can tell you what this is about. And because there's no communication whatsoever, it's come to this mess. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. "BSP for Bulgaria"? Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think that after today's discussion it has become clear that we need to distinguish between pensions and horse additives. All the pensioners got their raise. Is that right? That's right! Where did this tension come from? From the reduction of the mold additives. Is that right? That's right! Why, however, were the add-ons inserted into the pensions here already the question is to GERB? Because you're the ones who decided to get the codicils into the pensions and started paying them along with the pensions, which was really a mistake. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] We're not against the Kogena Supplements! There were even Christmas supplements, there were Easter supplements, there was also a period when 150 BGN. The purchasing power was so great.. imagine the distant 2008 year when almost every pensioner received 150 BGN, and now we are talking about 120 BGN. "In 2022, but the pension reduction came from there. When GERB made this mistake, which really distorts the model, we came up with a second mistake of the office. I also believe that it was not his job to bring these changes, so that the burden of every insurance year to rise from 1.20 to 1.35, especially that my personal opinion, every office should not touch the budget, but then we were in an emergency situation. This emergency situation was dictated by a species of crisis, and urgent measures really needed to be found. Then, of course, came already.. let's tell the truth, and the bidding that began from GERB: let not be 50 BGN, let be 100 BGN. Then came the colleagues from DPS: no, will not be 100 BGN, will be 120 BGN. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Yes, we at BSP supported this proposal because it is important. Because it is important in this world-class crisis, which is seen to be difficult to handle, to help people. But is this a lasting solution? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And basically, the mistake is that the real contribution to the value contribution has nothing to do with these supplements that we give them. Moreover, the third mistake, in my opinion, was the increase of the minimum pension by more than 20%, because these are the people who have the least contribution to the insurance system of BGN 300. It's BGN 370. If we want to restore confidence in the insurance model, then we must personally assist people who have actually provided themselves, those who truly provide themselves, who really fulfil the criteria, and not those who have at least provided themselves. We tell them: look, we will raise your pension the most, and those who have done their duty and have provided 40 years, their increase can be between 9 and 10%. That was really a mistake! From now on, what is important to know and what should we do? The NOI should, of course, fit into its functions. There is no way the Agency for Social Assistance in such a short time will almost begin to pay the pensions, but the NSI should start to pay here I support my colleague Ademov, the pensions once, and the second time in which the Bulgarian citizens know that this supplement is aid that will sooner or later break, because we all hope that the cod crisis will end one day and that their real pension is something different. The big mix-up happened because people, when they got everything together, when the add-on of 120 lv. It became BGN 60, they said: our pensions were reduced. No, all pensions increased with the exception of 945 people, colleagues in whom, due to their misinformation received, the type of pension is changed, there is really no increase, but for the remaining 2 million and 47 thousand increases there is, i.e. the NSI should start paying this cod supplement separately. How much this is going to cost, what it will be, it is not our job, but people need to be calm and it must be clear to them that this supplement is temporary. And the big question, fellow Members, is: what do we do from now on? June is coming. These supplements should be by June! If, by then, people don't realize that this kind of supplement is over, there's really going to be a lot of pressure. And here I fully support... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. ... Minister Gyokov, who said the following: we must think and seek political consensus to recalculate pensions with an up-to-date social security income, so that we can really eliminate a huge injustice for people who have worked the same profession, the same labour, the same years, but just the difference is when they retired. And the difference between a teacher's pensions, for example,... whether he retired 2002 or retired 2015, the pension difference will be BGN 300. That's completely unfair. Therefore, in order to reduce this scissors, this injustice, we must really, fellow Members, start thinking about recalculating pensions. We at BSP are done with calculations. It is therefore important to have a political consensus, to keep people calm and not to reduce their purchasing power. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u108	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. There is such a people? They won't express any attitude. The Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, thank you very much for your comprehensive answers. I will most likely repeat myself with colleagues who have already spoken with what has been said so far. It turned out that what was said that there would be no reduced pension...... was true. There's no reduced pension! But there are people who get less payments...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u110	There's a reduced income.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u111	Less payments... That's right. "Professive income" based on the fact that the social supplement was reduced from 120 to 60 BGN. Of course, colleagues from DPS are now very, rhetorically excited by this reduction. Their plan, of course, was to reduce this reduction to 120 BGN, i.e. to drop people's incomes from January 1st with 120 BGN after the supplement expired. She was strict for three months. This was the initial idea and the design proposed by DPS colleagues. The colleagues from the DPS explicitly, and that I remember asking them during the debates then, in the Forty-sixth Parliament, was 120 BGN. October, 120 BGN. November, 120 BGN. December and January zero. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] It is very important to remember that pensions are only one part of the incomes of elderly people in Bulgaria and I suggest we stop calling them pensioners! Only one part of them are pensioners - those who receive pension on the basis of an emerging and effective pension insurance relationship between them and the Bulgarian pension system. That's all the pensioners are! The other people are elderly people who receive incomes thanks to the fact that Bulgaria's added value-producing citizens agree through the political system that these people also have incomes. This is not a pension insurance attitude, this is a social policy. In this sense, it is absolutely imperative that we stop calling pensions things that are not pensions and have not arisen on the basis of the contribution of people through their work life in the pension system. Until we do this thing, the sense of justice here I want to fully agree with Mr. Arabadzhiev and surprise everyone who lives with my image of a market fundamentalist that justice is sometimes more important than money. For many people, a sense of justice is more important than how much money they get. It is a value of real human value, and we cannot ignore it. You shouldn't. And I agree with everything that's said in that direction in this room. Once upon a time, a colleague reminded me now, once upon a time when the pensioners would take their money, then they would come back and say: I took my pension and the five levs of Todor Zhivkov. We are now at the 60 leva.. not what it was, 50 leva of GERB, then the 120 leva of DPS, now are the 60 leva, if you will call them Assen Vasilev, as you want them to call them, but it is not money arising on the basis of contributions to the pension system. Of course, we keep repeating that this is a form of add-on! And when the Kovid is gone, God forbid, I suppose all, at least doctors, in this room will agree with me, God willing, as quickly as possible, implicitly we say that the supplement will go away as well. And we tell it to two million people. Let's tell them frankly all of us in this room that because we explicitly dress it as a coat supplement, when the Kovid is gone, God forbid as soon as possible, and the supplement must go along with the cavity. And let's be honest with them, all of us, not to be divided into government and opposition. If anyone thinks that this money should stay, say it, come out and say it and that this should become a payment that will forever remain for these people in Bulgaria. But once again, even if it remains, I do not say what decision should be made, it cannot be called a pension, it is incorrect. Because a pension is only a payment that arose on the basis of an effective pension insurance attitude with the corresponding contribution of man to the pension system. People who do not contribute to this system receive other payments, not pensions. And this must be explicitly constantly highlighted, for me this is important. Of course, to work on the issue of justice, of course, to ensure some standard of living... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm coming. ... as this guaranteeing a standard of living should be careful exactly what incentives for behavior during the labor life of people creates. Because we know that if you tell people, no matter how hard you've worked your whole life, how much you've contributed to the system, when you're a certain age, you'll surely get some exotic minimum, some people can change relationships for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u112	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. And an attitude of rebirth? Mr. Ganev again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u113	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Of course, we are not satisfied with the answers you have given to our questions for a very simple reason: nothing in particular you have answered what we asked you. It does not make you proud that it is understandable that a person does not have a gift to speak in an accessible language and explain everything he wants to say so that people who are far from matter and not only hear dry numbers, but it is not understandable when what has become clear is that all those 1 million and 200,000 people who have not received their real or rather received smaller pensions, the reason for this is that someone has not done their job in the offices for which you are responsible. And it is not right to say and justify yourself with all the parties in this Chamber and with political speaking! Excuse me very much, what you said, first of all, that it was not professional, second of all, it was quite normal for you to say: we have technical mistakes, we have technical errors and such gaps, it happened, understand, we will make up for people and that's all. Let's finish. Not to justify yourself with political talk! We're in parliament, we're not in a community center. And here we are sending political messages. When we asked you what your political messages are, your coalition's, what will happen to the galloping inflation that eats up already the miserable incomes of our parents, grandparents and grandfathers, you should have said: our coalition considers this and this to do. Not to say: the budget will come. Sorry, budget's coming in 10 days. You, if you do not have clarity as a social minister, it is clear that the Chairman of the Social Committee also has no clarity, no clarity, and no one to explain to the people who are currently watching. What are you going to do? When we asked you what are the working options, if the measure is taken out in the middle of the year, how and what will you do? What are the plans? Specifically, that is what we intend to do, so we look ahead. Good rulers don't watch tomorrow. Good rulers look months, years ahead. And you should, as part of such a large coalition, as part of a socialist party, have a very clear and concrete vision. We didn't hear that. We are therefore not satisfied with your answers, and therefore we cannot accept that you justify yourself by political speaking in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u114	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. For a procedure? An explanation, yes. Suppose you recognized yourself in the application, that as chairman of the committee you are not aware, I think I can afford to give you personal treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u115	It is disturbing when MPs change their tone from the beginning of the National Assembly and start fighting from this tribune. Mr. Ganev, it wasn't like that at first, so take some criticism from me. And with regard to the Social Committee Mr. Georgiev said he did not see guilt in the decisions of the Forty-sixth Parliament regarding the supplement. If your view is that pensions from 1 July should be increased by the amount of the cod add-on, then you will continue this error from the previous parliament. So don't throw yourself into this populism and don't use this material for populist speeches, as you do with vaccines and the mold crisis. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u116	You should have said what you're affected with, not doing a line in practice, but we'll take it easy to specify the procedures. You have no right, Minister, and you. The procedure is such that on this subject I cannot give you the floor any more, although I would very much like to, but I suppose there will be questions. [[M Minister Georgi Gyokov's comments.]] On your behalf, thank you for being heard. And I thank the Members of the National Assembly for the detailed information. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] For what, Mr. Svilensky? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't realize it was over. Of course, Minister Gokov has the right to be concerned. As we all know, at any time every minister has the right to address a subject which concerns Bulgarian citizens, and I really insist that you give him the floor. Of course, he takes the time to say what he has to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u118	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. He might take the floor on some other subject, not on the subject of the hearing he went through. So, I'm sorry to have to object, but with that, the item on the agenda is over. I'll take the day off at 11.45. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u119	Please, fellow Members, take your seats so we can proceed with the next item on the agenda. The Quaestors, if possible, will invite the colleagues who are in the hallway. We continue with item four of the agenda: PROJECT OF A COMPENSATORY MECHANISM DECISION FOR NON-BIT END CLIENTS ON THE ELECTRIC ENERGY MARKET. Importers: Delyan Dobrev, Zhecho Stankov and Temenuzhka Petkova. I give the floor to the importers. Here you are, Mr. Dobrev, to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The draft decision that we propose is for a compensatory mechanism that the Minister of Finance, together with the Minister of Energy, will introduce for compensation of the business in relation to the high prices of electricity. The adoption of this decision will oblige the cabinet to draw up such a compensation mechanism and will give the business confidence that they can continue to work. What is the compensation mechanism? What we want is to compensate 75% of the difference between the market price and the estimated market price set by the regulator. For those of you, who are not experts in the sector..................................................................................................... This is by decision of the regulator. The real market price is over 400 BGN. 500 BGN, that is, in times more than the forecast of the regulator. Our proposal is for the compensatory mechanism to cover 75% of the difference between the real market price and the market price of the regulator. That is, if the price is 500 BGN and the regulator said that it should be 120 BGN, the state should cover 75% of the difference of 380 BGN. I want to share with you that this is not a model that has invented the Group of GERB or the experts of GERB, it is a proposal of the employers that we recognized. In this sense, it can be said that this proposal has broad support among the employers' organizations, among the business in Bulgaria. It is high time for us to adopt such a mechanism, because in December the business has not received a penny. We have heard promises from the cabinet, but so far we have not seen a single written document to ensure that there will be compensation, whatever they are, that there will be any compensation from 1 December so far and not so far, but until the end of the regulatory period, because these high prices are expected to continue not only in the first but probably in the second quarter of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u121	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. I now give the floor to a MP who will present the Energy Commission report. Here you go, Mr. Fisherman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the introduction of a compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers on the electricity market, No 47-154-02-33, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs on 21 December 2021 At its regular meeting held together with the Budget and Finance Committee on 6 January 2022, the Energy Commission discussed Draft Decision on the introduction of a compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers in the electricity market, No 47-154-02-33, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs on 21 December 2021. The draft decision and the reasons for it were presented by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev. He stressed that at the time the mechanism was developed, the average price of electricity in the market is 453,11 BGN. at a megawatt hour. This price is 280% higher than predicted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC) price for the period. For comparison, for October the average price is BGN 368.61 and for November is BGN 408. at a megawatt hour. In their letter to the Prime Minister, employers' organisations propose that the compensatory mechanism be 75% of the difference between the stock price and the estimated market price. In a similar opinion of the Bulgarian Federation of Industrial Energy Consumers (BPIEK) propose that a lower threshold be introduced to this compensation so that there is no over-compensation in case the energy is purchased under a long-term contract at a lower price. The decision aims to oblige the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Energy to introduce a compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers with reimbursement of up to 75% of the difference between the estimated market price set out in Decision C-27 of 1 July 2021 of the KEWRC and the average monthly market price of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange platform. According to the regulatory opinion, the amount of the free market on an annual basis is around 22 million. And 100,000. the average monthly consumption of non-domestic end customers is around 1.85 million. megawatt hour. The maximum cost of compensation for 1 megawatt hour on the proposed mechanism would be BGN 248,25. at a month-long market price at the Bulgarian independent energy exchange for the month of December - BGN 450. For megawatt hours, i.e. the maximum budget needed for December is 460 million. lv. Calculating the compensations for February and March in a similar way, we receive a maximum amount of compensation for the entire period from 1 December to 31 March of 2 billion. and 960 million. lv. The actual amount of compensation will be significantly below this value as the proposal excludes a significant number of customers with long-term contracts at a lower price which would either not receive compensation or would be much smaller. In the subsequent discussion, the people's representative Vladislav Panev proposed to take legislative measures aimed at simplifying and accelerating the process of joining renewable energy capacities for own use, the people's representative Tsoncho Ganev proposed to think in the direction of finding a satisfactory amount of aid ceiling. The representatives of the employers' organizations presented in detail a model for the amount of compensation needed and sources of funding. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Committee on Energy with 8 votes for the electricity market, 11 votes against the electricity market, and 1 vote abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to reject the draft decision on the introduction of a mechanism for non-bit final customers in the electricity market, No 47-154-02-33, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs on 21 December 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u123	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. And now the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance has the floor, Mr. Kariminski.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision on the introduction of a compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers in the electricity market, No 47-154-02-33, submitted by Delyan Dobrev, Zhecho Stankov and Temenuzhka Petkova on 21 December 2021 At a joint meeting held with the Energy Commission on 6 January 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that decision. The meeting was attended by Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev, Minister of Energy Aleksandar Nikolov. The draft decision and the reasons for it were presented by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev. The draft decision proposes to oblige the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Energy to introduce a compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers with reimbursement of up to 75% of the difference between the estimated market price set out in Decision No C-27 of 1 July 2021 of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory and the average monthly market price of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange platform. The compensation is up to 75% in order to avoid overcompensation of customers under long-term low-cost contracts. In this sense, the second sentence of the decision is, namely: the value of the component of the non-bit final customers may not be lower than the estimated market price in Decision No C-27 of 1 July 2021 of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. The maximum amount of compensation for the entire period from 1 December 2021 to 31 March 2022 amounts to 2,96 billion. lv. The actual amount of compensation will be significantly below this value as the proposal excludes a significant number of customers with long-term contracts at a lower price which would either not receive compensation or would be much smaller. The sources of financing for compensation may be from: - an improved budget balance of 5 billion. BGN, as a small part of these revenues are from VAT on electricity; - a surplus in the "Secretary System Security" fund due to the increased amount of allowances and higher contributions of 5% on the turnover of electricity producers and transmission operators; - Overprofits of producers of electricity Kozloduy, NEK and others. Following the discussion of the draft decision, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt the draft decision on the introduction of a compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers in the electricity market, No 47-154-02-33, submitted by Delyan Dobrev, Zhecho Stankov and Temenuzhka Petkova on 21 December 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u125	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I open the discussion on the presented draft decision. Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u126	Affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u127	For a declaration please come in, a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u128	Mr. Chairman, at the beginning of the working day we continue the Change has allowed ourselves to do once again what I spoke yesterday, namely to violate the rights, the Constitution and the laws in our country. You have allowed yourself from this highest tribune in Bulgaria to accuse us, to attribute to us things that we have neither said nor done. You allowed yourself the cynicism to explain that we should be vaccinated because otherwise people will die. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You took the liberty of making suggestions that in no way correspond to the truth. In this regard, I would like to explicitly emphasise something extremely important about the responsibility for what happened yesterday, the responsibility for what will most likely continue to happen on this subject is entirely in your shoulders, both to you and to your coalition partners. Why? Because just a few days ago, your Prime Minister was sitting in this chair. Then we, the Group of ARCHIVErs, clearly and accurately called on you to, if you will, accept it, we have asked you to be divisive, we have asked you to finally understand that our society is highly fragmented and it is imperative that in the face of the Prime Minister that the government should finally act pragmatically and begin, to make sure that our society is united at this moment when we find ourselves. We had to do everything possible to hear the other side of our unilaterally presented facts and measures. Because yesterday, the Minister of Health, which you chose, said clearly and categorically at the meeting: "We cannot cancel the green certificate because we have clearly accepted community commitments. Excuse me very much, you yesterday in the face of your Minister of Health accepted and admitted that you are fulfilling community commitments that have nothing to do with what is important to us as a country. In this regard, we have seen what the Prime Minister has done. In no way went on and did not make it so that this division would end in our society. Moreover, this problem is neglected, but we did something else. We have proposed to you in the Chamber, to your Parliamentary Group, to all parliamentary groups, that we make a working group in which to examine all the facts. To invite specialists who are different from those who confess our community commitments to the partners that your government holds. To hear another point of view to avoid this division in society. You've explained to me how this thing is not going to happen, you won't need it, you won't accept it. You refuse to be part of this society in any way that does not accept your measures. Then we told you again: take a step aside in the name of no division in society, in the name of these people, one of whom were in the square yesterday, to hear their opinion, to hear their vision, to hear what they think and what they want to happen. You said no, and now you're blaming us. Excuse me, you refuse to bear any political responsibility. Your party is the largest in parliament. You are responsible for absolutely everything that happens or doesn't happen. It is cynicism for you to exercise and place your responsibility on all others, but not to say: yes, we are responsible for this, and yes, we will bear all the consequences. It is cynicism to explain that those people who yesterday wanted to hear your opinion and why you imposed these measures, you refused and hid, you fled through the back door. All that remains is the chairman. Everyone else ran away. The whole country ran away, all the institutions ran away. He honors the health minister for not hiding. A woman did not hide and stand and talk to representatives of the protesters. Everyone here in your black suits hid, not to mention not using an epithet how. Therefore, I would kindly ask you not to run away from responsibility, to bear the responsibility that is on your shoulders as a ruling party, and when you have refused constructive proposals for dialogue, not for anything else, for dialogue, to say: "There is no dialogue, we are responsible! [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. [[The National Representative Hristo Petrov wants the floor for procedure.]] What procedure? Here you go, but let's keep it the way it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question. There are many good specialists, professors of medicine, financiers, as well as many good lawyers in this room. I have a simple question: if I decide tomorrow and I call 500 or 1000 of the people who voted for me, and I tell them: come illegally to the parliament, come and push policemen, I will pay you the buses, I can give you 40 leva. Isn't it right for Mr. Attorney General to request my parliamentary immunity, to be tried and put in jail? [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] [[Noise and Resurrection lines.]] And my question is simple: does the law say that it applies only to me or to a handful of miserable fascists? Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u131	Mr. Petrov, I take it the question was for me. We will make a legal reference as to whether such action can be expected. I guess that's what I'm supposed to do. [[The National Representative Nikolay Angov wants the floor for a personal explanation. Noise and lines.]] Wait, one at a time. I was not under the impression that you were personally offended, but as far as the declaration is concerned, let us not abuse it. Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! [[Shows sheet.]] Statistics yesterday from NSI on total mortality in Bulgaria. I didn't make any suggestions, I didn't scare anyone, I didn't deliver any real data. [[Noise and lines of rebirth. A line from the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u133	It's a personal explanation. You accused him of panicking. [[Relations from the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u134	These are the data from the NSI that I've stepped on and from which I see mortality. Thank you. [[Reply by National Representative Tsoncho Ganev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u135	Mr. Ganev... Wait a minute, Mr. Angov. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a minute, wait a minute!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u136	Don't talk from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u137	Let's let Mr. Angov get to the point where he can explain himself. [[Reply by National Representative Tsoncho Ganev.]] Yeah, but he recognized himself in what you said because he made the line. [[National representative of the Parliamentary Group of ARGUING goes to the stands and speaks to the President.]] Please take your place!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u138	You said that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u139	Wait, let him finish his line. [[The National Representative of the Parliamentary Resurrection Group continues to speak to the President.]] Please! Please don't talk to me through the stands! I've given the floor to the MP. I ask the Quaestors to release the stands! Ask then in the manner of conduct and explain to me what you mean. We don't talk in private here. Here you go, Mr. Angov, continue, and please let the procedure be a personal explanation, not an explanation of NSI statistics.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u140	My explanation is that I made my statement based on statistics and official data. I didn't use any false and misleading facts. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u141	Thank you, Mr. Angov. Are there any other procedures? Please come in for a procedure. What is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u142	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u143	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u144	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u145	Good morning!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u146	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the manner of conduct we witness a spectacular failure of the chair's conduct behind me. [[Heckling]] You can't all go out... [[Noise and lines.]] You swear by the laws, by the Constitution, and you don't obey them. Twice with a personal example we see the latter from yesterday by your Prime Minister, now we see again that we have a spectacular failure with order and with conduct. Everyone can't go out and say whatever they want. [[Heckling]] A personal explanation that has nothing to do with the personal explanation. Let's get you a rule book, have you read home and consult with him. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I'm one of the people who's gonna say if it has anything to do with it. Yeah, there's a chairman who's definitely not doing well.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u147	No, don't come in...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u148	Let's ask his replacements to ask Tsoncho Ganev to help him, too, if you want...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u149	Don't engage in conversation with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u150	...because it's obvious he's not doing well and he's missing the hall like this. And you and your arrogance only contribute to that. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u151	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. [[Reply.]] Wait now, one by one, because under the rules of each personal explanation procedure, I have two minutes to explain myself. I mean, not for a personal explanation, but in the manner of conduct. I would like to assure you that, although on the edge, both procedures were quite within the framework of the Rules, as Mr. Ganev accused the Change and the person who made the declaration into suggestion and a lie. The person was offended even though it was not mentioned personally in the practice of the National Assembly, and it was perfectly normal to come out and explain that his declaration was based on statistics, not inventing false information. So the hall isn't missed, she's here, you're all here. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] I hope we can get back to normal in a little while. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov. Tell her what your procedure is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u152	My procedure, Mr. Chairman, is in the manner of conduct. It is extremely focused on you and on the way in which you are holding the sitting, and it is because I congratulate you. I congratulate you on the way you hold back your nerves, even when, here on this stand, they speak to you of the Rules of Procedure, who yesterday frankly urged to invade the National Assembly by force. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "INN" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] I congratulate you for staying in your post both yesterday and today. I also draw attention to the procedure which was carried out by the honourable MP Mr. Petrov to consider how the management of the National Assembly should pay attention to the authorities of the Republic for the calls for violence that were made in front of the windows of the National Assembly yesterday. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "INN" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u153	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. I'd just like to read art. 152, para. 1 in the framework of my opportunity to respond to your procedure and to say that I paid attention in the first speech of a representative of the National Assembly when they called for an invasion of the National Assembly, how the people would enter the National Assembly. Article 152, para. 1 says: "The behaviour of the MP is based on respect for the authority of the National Assembly and respect for other MPs and outsiders. It cannot violate the normal functioning of parliamentary work or order in the National Assembly building. I think we have all supported this text and should follow it. Can we move on to this discussion now? Please come in for a statement. Procedure? [[Reply by National Representative Zhecho Stankov.]] Okay, one thing at a time should happen. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the importance of the point that we are looking at today, namely, in the last six months, it is a special topic with the price crisis, please invite the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Energy, who have a direct relationship with the point so that we can hear their opinion, because this is in fact the first document in black and white as a decision that will take or will not take the National Assembly in relation to the price crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u155	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. The Minister of Finance, unfortunately, is unable to attend, you know why he is under quarantine, and the Minister of Energy will ask now to be invited. If there is an opportunity and a desire to come, but this, of course, does not cancel our discussion. I suggest we continue with it, and if I get information from the Minister that he's ready to come, I'll let you know. Now, the word for speech, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, in the last six months, one of the main topics in the country's territory has been the price crisis. It started in the middle of the year with the insufferable management of Bulgarian energy. It seemed like a small child is playing with the power console and does not know what it is doing. When prices of energy carriers across Europe were at normal levels, things looked different in Bulgaria. In the reports of the two committees that we have heard, you have seen that the Members of Parliament did not support the decision that we proposed with our colleague Dobrev and Mrs. Petkova, and it is natural here today to hold a debate. I hope that after this debate, we will find the right way to do so, whether by amending the decision, whether by reformulating or finding the right direction to protect non-bit consumers; small and medium-sized businesses; industry; the service sector and all who are currently suffering from the high price of energy. Moreover, unlike many other decisions submitted to the National Assembly, there are also sources of funding for what we propose in our decision. What we are proposing was detailed by Mr. Dobrev, namely 75% compensation between the base price of KEWRC - 119 BGN and the market price. By the way, Mr. Chairman, when I mention the President of the National Assembly, I refer to your colleague, who is under quarantine.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u158	Our decision has really achieved its goal. We see a movement by the ruling coalition in parliament, we see a movement by the Council of Ministers, although the decision was deliberately delayed by a personal decision of the President of the National Assembly, who did not allow the discussion in the Chamber weeks ago. We would have already made the decision and from 1 December would have known all free market workers what their compensation would be. That's what didn't happen. Invoices for December came out, Facebook is full of published electricity bills, which are 5 times higher than in December the previous year.......................... Is it, like, 250 leva? Is it? In this regard, at all, lost ground under your feet, you forget about the most important fact that the bill, first of all, must be paid. Here comes the medium-term problem, for which none of you has raised the question to be paid, needs financial resources. The business has so far been addressing its electricity suppliers to reschedule the accounts, but so far also the energy traders themselves are in a liquid crisis due to extremely high electricity prices. If they supplied a unit of energy last year at a five-fold lower price, they now need five-fold more financial resources to provide the same energy, which led to the fact that they started pressing their customers not to reschedule payments, but to shorten payment deadlines on a monthly basis, but on a ten-day basis, on a fifteen-day basis. So it is very important to consider in perspective the way in which the liquidity of both the Bulgarian business will be provided in order to pay its bills and energy traders in order to remain stable the energy system. When one makes one mistake once, one can say that one learns from one's mistakes. However, when it is allowed a second time, it is either done intentionally or unknowing, incompetence and the inability to deal with the problem. What do I mean? October and November were promised compensation for the business. Who paid the bill after the compensation had yet to appear and paid off December? Of course, all Bulgarian citizens are sovereign, voters, as you would call them, they paid the bill. There is no way the Bulgarian business, which had no clarity will receive, will it not receive compensation for October and November, when will it receive, how much will it be? Naturally, they calculated the cost of energy in their finished products. That's what's gonna happen now. The December accounts lack the most important order. The order that discounts the amount for the aid, which is still speculating on how precise it will be. Understand that the price of energy for December is in all the goods and services that Bulgarian citizens paid during the holidays and continue to pay. It's speculated on billions of dollars. In fact, the amount paid was not more than 180 to 190 million. lv. on the basis of the energy consumed, there is talk of 2, 3, 4 billion aid that will be granted to the business. Well, what was the problem with the notification to the European Commission being launched when Mr. Dobrev and Mrs. Petkova submitted the proposal, bearing in mind that the Commission authorises up to 10% deviation from the state aid notified to them? And now, at the moment, already in the December account, which was received the first week of January, we would not have to wonder what was going to happen and why there is no line in which the problem of reducing the accounts needs to be solved or, rudely speaking, to deduct the compensation. This is definitely going to be a follow-up topic. We expect from you today a constructive dialogue to hear your position. Yes, at times we hear it very clearly and it usually consists of the basic price on which to step, not 119 BGN, but 185 BGN. Seventy-five percent of this difference, however, is BGN 50, honourable Members, BGN 50. .. 0,05............................................................................ Kilowatt, 50 leva. at a megawatt hour. To show an understanding of an enterprise that currently pays 60 thousand. lv. for energy, this will be at least 5000 additional help, which you deprive them of, because that's what you've decided. And don't make excuses for not having the means. There are enough funds in the state budget of nearly a billion BGN of VAT collected, and in the Fund of the Electricity System and in general in all of the sources of funding listed by us in the decision. We expect a constructive dialogue in which you will finally support a solution that will benefit non-bit consumers in the territory of the country and help them in the toughest months, namely January, February and March. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u159	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Are there any lines? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Stankov, first of all, a few details. At the moment, January seems not to be the toughest month, because in the segment "Day forward" prices are much lower than what we saw in December, and thank God, in the last 12 days the average price may be around 300. That's the first one. So the speculation that the prices are currently five times higher than last year is not correct in my opinion. But of course, we appreciate your concern for business. This is something that we share, too, do not dispute the severe situation in which it is placed with the predictability of costs and the unprecedented increase in free market prices, and their costs respectively. Our opinion is that any aid and support from the state to business should be put on three principles. Firstly, to reach the most deprived, with the aim of avoiding speculation and minimizing the interference and distortion of the market. Secondly, to an adequate extent this aid, taking into account the possibilities of the state budget and the needs of the business respectively. Thirdly, this measure should be timely. Based on these principles, we believe that the government, rather than the National Assembly, is operationally in a much better position to determine the size, groups of beneficiaries and the time frame of aid to target business. Because, agree, at some point, let's say, domestic gas users, who are currently under a higher price increase in percentage terms, might be more deprived. According to this, the government would have instruments that would be more appropriate to assess what measures would be. So our position is that the National Assembly should build a long-term framework, and concrete measures are the work of the government and not of us. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u161	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Is there another line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tabutov, you cannot analyze January month through his first week of rest. However, I will tell you that consumption is 2.5% more than last year's consumption. I would also like to tell you that the price that has been made on the stock market is within 400 BGN today. at an average price for December 430 BGN This is, however, due to something else that you miss intentionally or unintentionally, most of the Bulgarian enterprises did not open January! [[Extreme applause by GERB-SDS.]] January didn't open! People are at home, taking leave on duty, some of them are on unpaid leave. With no demand or supply exceeding demand, prices do not reach those levels that were before the New Year. Believe me, the next time, if not in the beginning of February, you will see again the huge increase in prices - not that currently 400 BGN. is a bearable price. The second part of your speech. I don't want to share domestic, non-vibe users in any way from this tribune. Why? Because the price of natural gas is not only used by the household for heating or cooling it is used by the Bulgarian industry. If you will, the bakers in Bulgaria who work with modern technologies bake their bread with natural gas. What does that mean? That the price of the daily will continue to grow until there are no compensations not only for domestic consumers, but also for business in this direction. Moreover, consider to reach the bread to your table, it passes through the hands of the farmers who cultivate the land. Such farmers who bought fertilizers for 300,000. lv. last season, now they have to pay at least a million and a half so they can fertilize the land. Now make an account of the cost of the bread and turn to the voters and say that next year the bread will be three levs or three and fifty, or four levs. I don't want you speculating. First, the price of electricity is high. It is, in time to give compensation. Secondly, we are a parliamentary republic and you cannot explain that the Council of Ministers could do this or that. Provided that the colleague Dobrev two months ago black and white painted them on the whiteboard what are the measures that can be taken in order not to seem that GERB offers them, so to speak, the positive of this thing, yet you did not take advantage. These measures cannot be used at the moment, at least because of the moratorium. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We therefore offer new ones and hope that you will support them in any way you can modify them. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u163	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Any other speeches? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u164	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a representative coming from the local government, from the local self-government, which I think is a good and useful school, I am committed to not only being an advocate, but also one of the votes of the Bulgarian municipalities in this National Assembly. Even during the October campaign, we warned that municipalities would be unable to pay their electricity bills and, above all, street lighting if no working compensation mechanism was created. [[(Reply from "We are continuing the Change": Did they take advantage of the energy efficiency programmes?]] Unfortunately, our concerns proved to be perfectly justified. In my constituency already mayors, colleagues from municipal councils and operators are discussing options for introducing street lighting regime. We all know that this is one of the public services that directly affects Bulgarian citizens because people are primarily interested in what is happening on their street. We all know something else. Unlit streets in small hours are also a prerequisite for an increase in crime. The change in quality of life is tangible and if we do not notice and apply rapid and effective measures to control the energy tornado, to compensate, this quality of life will continue to fall. I can say this: once we have a good working mechanism in place or rather a proposal in this situation, and the worst solution would be better than the lack of one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u165	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Are there any lines? First line, Yavor Bozhankov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u166	Dear Mr. Nikolov, I am making this line because you drew an apocalyptic picture of your colleagues in Gorna Oryahovitsa, the municipality is already stopping street lighting. However, it is about a municipality which should remind you that it pays for objects that cost about 30 thousand. BGN, at a price of 300 thousand. lv. [[Speaking of legendary arches]] , the municipality, which is famous for guest houses, mother-in-law houses and whatnot. But none of these problems, not one feather in the municipal budget, I can talk a lot, I will not have enough time to reply, has never been the subject of your attention, but now the subject of your attention is precisely this economy. Great!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u167	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Here you are, Mr. Tabutov, for a second line and a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u168	Mr. Nikolov, I would just like to remind you that from my electoral district, you launched an initiative for renovation of the blocks during the management of GERB. And Mr. Bojankov, that was a good initiative, but there is one fact. The fact is that then the average price per square meter for sanitization was about 350 BGN. Two years later, in all other such initiatives on a state scale, the mayors achieved an average price of about 110 BGN. So, Mr. Bojankov, yes there were such initiatives during the management of GERB. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] The connection is very clear. The measures you have taken, which are long-term, namely energy efficiency, have not been done properly, but some state funds have been spent, which at the moment we all have to pay. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u169	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Third line, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u170	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to ask, in view of the importance of the subject that we are discussing, to refrain from, if possible, of course, such small bickering, which in no way contribute to solving the price problem,...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u171	The line is for Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u172	Yeah, sure. ... Which in no way suggest solving the problem with the price of non-bit users. In terms of municipalities. I do not know what happened in Gorna Oryahovitsa Municipality, but I can give you an example of the electricity bills of Vidin Municipality for November 2020. '97,000. and BGN 103, for November 2021 "Sixty-six thousand. And BGN 711. And if you think that a municipality like Vidin can afford to pay its electricity bills at this price of electricity for non-bit consumers, you obviously don't care about the problems of small municipalities. There is no source of revenue for municipalities of such a caliber that can be used to compensate the price of electricity, and not to operate a municipality, means all of us here in this room to give up the commitments we have made to our own voters. And in this regard, the renovation was a wonderful initiative that should have and have a long-term effect if applied on a larger scale, because the price of electricity also depends on how much we consume and what are the buildings in which we consume this electricity. Unfortunately, the official governments, as well as the current governments, do not wish in the Recovery and Development Plan to restore the measure relating to renovation of buildings. So if we are to be correct in this case, it is good to think about a compensatory mechanism and all long-term measures to be the subject of a long and thorough discussion. But I must say, not like what happened in the Energy Commission. Because when we don't listen enough and make decisions just because someone has told us that the decision must be rejected, no matter what the effect on the citizens, we get what happened yesterday in front of parliament. The next time someone came out and gathered all the reasons for public dissatisfaction, we observed this thing a year ago and two, all as a society, and then there were no objections to the defamation of the institutions. So when all the public discontent is gathered because of short-sighted policy, including the National Assembly, because we are waiting for the executive to make a decision, and we are going to watch, then it will be very difficult for all of us to correct and sanitize the mistakes. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We have the opportunity to forgive, I end up with a source of funding, a very normal solution to solve the problem of non-bit consumers. Because the more closed businesses there are, the more people there will be on the market and the economic effect for the state will be much greater and more devastating than to compensate the price of electricity under the proposed mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. I'm obliged to make one clarification. That wasn't a line, that was a statement. I didn't interrupt you because it's from your group's time anyway, but let's just keep that in mind. However, you are not now able to make a replica of this speech. But anyone who wants to make a statement can. Mr. Nikolov for the coat first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u174	I think Mrs. Kirova understood best what I meant. I don't personalize and I haven't personalized the particular community. That Mr. Bozhankov meant Gorna Oryahovitsa Municipality, I have not forgotten where I came from, why I came and where I am going. [[Private applause.]] Yeah. It's nice, Mr. Bojankov, let's not forget our birthplace. As long as you're trying to get into my shoes, I don't shop at the children's store, though. [[Laughter, noise and partial applause by GERB-SDS.]] So, colleagues, let's focus on the topic and the serious discussion. The Bulgarian business, municipalities and non-domestic consumers need quick and effective support. Thank you. [[Private applause and noise from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u175	Mr. Nikolov, I think you've crossed the line of wit. But Mr. Bojankov is shopping at the children's store because he has two young children. Let's each have two wonderful children and watch them. Next statement for a procedure? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u176	Mr. Chairman, you were quite delicate to your colleague from GERB, but before giving qualifications, why don't you look in the mirror? Why don't you stand in front of the mirror and then determine which shop to shop from? Aren't you ashamed of what you've done here, of this tribune?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u177	Mr. Svilensky! Let's move on. I think everyone's jumping to conclusions. Mr. Cholakov wanted the word first, but what if there's another group willing? I can't see. So come on in, Mr. Cholakov. Then there's Mrs. Petkova. If there's time, you'll all pass.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u178	Dear colleagues, I would like to try, if possible, to return the conversation to where he should be, because something passes our time in jokes and banter. I don't know if this has happened to you, but it's happened to me in the last few days. Any friend I've called to wish him a happy New Year, his first question or a line to me is, please, do something about the power, because we're dying. My colleagues have made a proposal which I ask you very seriously to discuss and accept, or, as they said, not to accept, because in the end, absolutely all non-bit consumers, which means absolutely all businesses, companies, municipalities, NGOs, are waiting to see what we are going to do today. And I really call on us not to pass our time in jokes and pranks. There is currently a financial resource to help businesses and non-domestic consumers. Let's do this and pray this crisis goes fast. Because, colleagues, since yesterday, I've been thinking about the definition of the concept of a force major. The force majeure in general perception, you know, is a supreme power, God's power, and it is usually understood as disasters, catastrophes, earthquakes, to erupt a volcano and so on. However, in German legal practice, it is also when businesses are placed before such objective inability to work that they are threatened with bankruptcy. I ask all fellow lawyers and all economists here not now, but to start thinking very quickly about how we will apply the concept of "force major" because you know what force major means when you say it?! This means that all contracts have been cancelled, all contracts have ceased. Do you know what it means if your government has to declare force majeure and what measures should be taken? Because these measures can't imagine your fantasy at all. And we'll have to imagine them. So I am asking you very seriously to stop joking and bantering, to support business at the moment with what is possible, and to pray that we do not have to use this tribune to pronounce the word force majeure. Thank you. [[Private applause from the House.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u179	Thank you. Are there any lines? I can't see. Well, let's take turns in groups. For a line? Here's your cue, and then Mr. Atalay when I run out of coats.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will only allow a reply in terms of the force majeure to correct the colleague before me that, under the Bulgarian law in the presence of force majeure, the contracts do not cease, they simply stop their action for a certain period, and already the decision of the parties is whether and after continuing this force-major, no matter how long the parties can decide whether to terminate these contracts, whose action has been temporarily suspended because of the presence of force-major. Of course, when we talk about the support of the Bulgarian business and measures by the government, I do not want to be their defender now, it is good to adopt and apply a procedure to address accordingly. Because we still do not know how long this force majeure would last and these circumstances, but just to bear in mind that after the expiry of a certain period we should give some security to the Bulgarian business and make sure that it gets effective protection, because not to talk in five, six, seven months: well, we January talked about measures to protect the business, we talked about force majeure, but he went on for example. That's my request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u181	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u182	I don't feel like going into the legal discussion right now, colleague, but I'm glad we're starting because it'll be useful. I just wanted to point out in these reasoning that the force major is also a rebellion, a revolution. And it's a force major.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u183	War.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u184	And war, of course, but mutiny, mutiny. Once again, I appeal to the government: to stop joking and bantering, to accept the proposal we are making right now, because if you do not like the legal interpretation that force majeure can be a production necessity, we can also get to force majeure, mutiny and then we will talk about force majeure again. But otherwise I agree with you that we can have this conversation, and it's nice to start having it right away while they're hanging out.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u185	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Ramadan Atalay, I have announced that you have expressed your wish to speak!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u186	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u187	Here you go. By the time you get to the stands, let me just say that the Minister of Energy has been informed. He was present at the Commission meeting. Unfortunately, there are other commitments already made and is unable to come to the discussion in the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I will only invite you not to allow from this tribune today, obviously, led by yesterday's protest, by GERB, we see that they are trying to clearly support aging, again talking about riots, about mutinies. We have also just heard from Mrs Kirova's statement, so in order to keep the good tone, I will invite you simply not to speak and not to welcome violence and riots from this tribune. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u189	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Now you have given Mrs. Kirova the opportunity to make a personal explanation. I can't help but give it to her, as maybe she doesn't want to make riots and riots.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u190	I thank you for the opportunity you gave me. I don't know where you saw riots and riots in my previous statement. The idea was to get back to the point that we are commenting on and make an adequate decision. If you have recognized yourself somewhere in what I mentioned in my previous speech, it is good to draw conclusions about everything that is coming and happening in the country right now. Because the medal always has two sides and we have to be objective about everything that's happening right now. [[Reply from.. We continue the Change.]] What's next? It depends on this National Assembly and on the behaviour, Mr. Ananiev, of the Members of the National Assembly. As long as it's responsible enough. In this regard, I would ask you not to divert the topic of conversation, but to really return to the proposal made. It has many essential elements, the sources of funding are shown. I didn't hear any objections to them. I have not heard any objections to the substance, so those who are preparing to reject the proposal, let them say why they do not agree...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u191	Mrs. Kirova, you are speaking again, in another form this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u192	...to make up for business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u193	Let us observe procedures and be really careful with words, because they really matter. People are looking at us, hearing us stop this revolutionary rhetoric here. Personal explanation, Mr. Ananiev. I didn't understand who offended you, Mr. Ananiev, but today we have a lot of explaining to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u195	I didn't know who hurt your feelings.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u196	Actually, Mrs. Kirova's statement that said that... [[Heckling]] No, I'm talking right now. The idea is that GERB is trying to present themselves as some Christian people who want to solve the problems of the business and at the same time the problems of the business come from the management of GERB. [[Laughter, shouting and applause by GERB-SDS.]] Actually, the circle...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u197	Mr. Ananiev, now...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u198	...is one twisted, so, yeah, we're talking about it, but still, don't look like any innocent people you're not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u199	I'm suggesting... [[Heckling]] Stop a minute and I'll say a few words! We started here with not a very good tone in this part of our work on this point and started to do procedures through each other. Open up and read your book again. There is no problem, you all have plenty of time. Speaking, take the floor. You know that the line is to the speaker, specifically by things he has said, and the personal explanation if it is a personal explanation, you must have felt personally affected or offended, but making personal explanations from which to make new statements on the substance at the point really is not right. So let's get back to the rules. I'm flexible enough about procedures, but we're starting to overdo it a little bit. I give the word to Mr. Ramadan Atalay, who had prepared himself here, closer, but came back waiting for more personal explanation probably. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, we've been preparing for a long time. I was expecting someone to come out again to do some mutiny here, so, I say, let me go home and sit down. [[Laughter]] Because what I finally heard is that the price crisis is from the opposition or GERB. That was the tip of it. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] My fellow Members, I see that there is concern in this House. In this room, all MPs are watching the news. Each of you has a friend in the business, each one of you goes and buys bread from the oven, sees that every day the bread of 1 leva. He's already at £2. Each of us sees that decisions need to be made, decisions that will be in the interest of non-bit users, the so-called, or the business. Decisions that, for one reason or another, we need from this House to send a message of peace, security, conviction that both the manufacturer and the domestic consumers tomorrow will pay just as much as the cost plus that small profit for electricity production, not those high prices that are caused by the lack of energy in Europe, in America, in Asia. As if making the decisions, as I said, Asia, I feel that the government is somewhere in Asia. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] My message to them is that if the minister was present in the Commission, today nothing prevented him from being here, to come and explain to the MPs what decisions they had made, how tomorrow the plant in Sopot will work with 8,000 people, how today each of us I am sure he has received at least one invoice from the business where he says we are sorry that we are sending you the merchant Energy someone, an invoice in which there is no way to charge the compensation which the government has not yet taken as a decision. [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo! (GERB-SDS.)]] Dear colleagues, we, as the National Assembly, must do what the government no longer does. The money he has from over-profits is the word, in NEC, in NEC, in the Energy Security Fund, holding on to a pile instead of going to get compensation for those who need it for the production of that production that we are buying from the store today and we wonder why there is inflation. Well, the price of electricity is already charged on the goods! If Mr. Asen Vassilev expects in any way to raise even more money and spend 9 billion in 9 days. BGN, that money won't be able to spend it in nine days. With concern, I say to you: I am not against this government, we are not against those who for one reason or another have taken power, but you must know to follow the rules and follow the rules, to be useful to society. Mr. Dobrev, get up, come and say that this decision is not GERB's.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u201	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u202	Say that the decision is common to the state and let us sit down and vote all. If we are not going to vote, the Minister of Finance comes here and tells us that after meeting at four, six or ten eyes, we have reached an agreement with the business and from tomorrow the decision in the Council of Ministers is 75%, 65%, however the percentage...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u203	35%.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u204	...but you have to go out and say we have to know if it's 75%, we'll push inflation. If it's 35%, you can't. And in what way not to close at 35% and a certain ceiling and "Sopot". Do you know how to open a closed business after that? Honourable Members, my request is a moment ago the President said. I respect you as young people who are for one reason or another, I'm sure you've worked somewhere. [[to continue Changing]] If there's not one of you who's been dealing with energy, there's plenty of experts, but get in those shoes where you can hear. You have no hearing, colleagues! The government has no hearing capacity! And this sensitivity is charged every day on the taxpayer's back. It is not enough that we are ashamed of the moratorium you introduced, and now you are doing everything possible how and in what way to load the business, to withdraw those funds and subsequently the interest from the loans they will withdraw will be charged on the inflation that we see every day. Our proposal, colleagues, from day one: remove the moratorium.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u205	On the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u206	There is no price crisis in the world for anyone to start dealing with a moratorium. Take and offer in Parliament an amendment and supplement to tax laws; let the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission get back on its feet, set those prices that are acceptable to the household consumer; make sure we end up with the law on energy poor through the Ministry of Labour getting those funds that are needed for energy poor; pay those who are now in Boyana and are currently in the Jacuzzi, take out their money and pay. Nobody wants help, nobody wants charity. There is one solution. It may not be the right thing to do, it may not be the best, but today it's proposed and it's on the table. My request is, my colleagues, if necessary, Mr. Chairman, to take a break, to come here the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u207	He can't come.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u208	He's in isolation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u209	Yeah, I'm sorry. Maybe if it's more in isolation, we can handle it. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]] If necessary, the Minister of Energy will come. If we have to, anyone, but let's sit down and make two decisions. First, the compensation to the business where our employers can pay the money to the workers. The second thing, to remove the moratorium, so that we can get into legal forms, to make the rules for paying off those funds that are necessary for the end-user. If I haven't been clear, come out and give me a line, but one thing I'm asking you: no one here today from both opposition and government, we didn't come out here for one reason or another to mislead you. They once let you down. That's the second time they don't want to. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] You don't have that desire, I see.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u210	I won't, I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u211	But, colleagues, it's a very serious subject. It's not a theme, it's important. If we make a decision here today from the National Assembly, perhaps we can resolve what is necessary for energy. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS, GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u212	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there any lines? Mr. Dobrev, come in for a line. Second line, Mr. Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u213	Mr. Atalay, the only thing I disagree with is that I have not made it clear that this is not a proposal from GERB, this is a proposal from employers. I and my colleagues are the only importers of the proposal from all employers' organisations and we have imported it since 21 December 2021. Since then, I have repeatedly insisted that the decision be placed on the agenda, and you see that almost one month later it has not yet entered the agenda. A penny has not been paid to the business, and the invoices have been received, there is no order of compensation, as my fellow Members have also said. If the problem is that under this draft of a solution is my name and the names of my colleagues, I am sure that they will agree with me, we agree to sign over our names or instead of our names to write whatever names you want from the ruling coalition, just to accept this decision because it is in favor of business. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u214	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Tabutov, you have the floor for a second line, and the third one is still available.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atalay, I share your concern that we must ensure peace and security of business. I just want to share for the general public and plus for colleagues who have not been to the meeting of the Energy Committee that then the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Mr. Asen Vassilev made a proposal to the business, namely to sign long-term contracts at one level, which is cost plus small profit by referring to a price of about 200 BGN. At a megawatt hour, and then the business wasn't very enthusiastic. Here I can say that indeed the Prime Minister is in discussion with all employers and a solution will be found to satisfy their demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u216	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. There's no third line. Here you go, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members, the funds that are in the energy sector must now be seized and those money left to invest in the energy sector, and the rest, which are overrun by production, must be returned as compensation to the enterprises. In the Energy Efficiency Fund it can also be touched, taxes can be touched and it can be made so that today in Bulgaria we do not feel absolutely no price crisis! If we're at the station, this thing will happen in five days. How long have you been doing this for? Mr. Tabutov, I see your desire to stand out like this and the Prime Minister to see you. You have been in the field of energy for many years, and as far as I know, even in green energy you are involved, but do what you can to help those with whom you were with before you came here. And one more thing I want to say to you, fellow Members: if we do not take as fast a decision as possible to help people with wood, to help people who use pellets, to help those people who use domestic gas, including businesses, if we do not make sure that businesses start working so that they do not lose their market niche in Europe, you should know that you will regret that you have come to power. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u218	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. I would now like to announce which MPs have signed up in order: Temenuzhka Petkova, Krasimir Valchev, Asen Baltov, Alexander Nikolov, Mr. Nenkov, Rumen Hristov. Mrs. Petkova has the floor. [[People's representatives are leaving the Chamber.]] We don't know how long he'll be speaking, so don't rush out of the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, this debate may not have been taking place today if, as early as August 2021, you by the ruling majority then had paid attention to our call to take the most rapid measures and the caretaker government to develop a mechanism to compensate the business, as it was clear to everyone that the price of electricity is only going up. Unfortunately, that's when you ignored our signal. Today the Bulgarian business is literally facing the wall and is facing bankruptcy. These bankruptcies lead many people who will lose their jobs, and all of this, of course, creates an extremely scary and unpleasant situation for all of us. Therefore, what we offer as a compensation mechanism and as a solution that we believe really fully satisfies the interests of the Bulgarian business is a good solution. There's no better help than timely help. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, if we wait for further analysis and working groups to be set up, we risk very soon that there will be no one to present these analyses to and to whom to present the compensation measures. Here, in front of me is the invoice of a processing company that sent me its invoice from December last year and the invoice that they received literally the other day. Do you know what the difference is in the prices that this company pays for electricity? If in December 2020, their account was BGN 6000, it is now 67 thousand. And BGN 661. So, what do you think, honourable Members of the ruling majority, that this employer can survive? This company employs 200 people in an unconventionally well-developed region. So what I am calling you and my colleagues from the Political Party GERB about is: let's get out of our political addictions and interests, let's get out of our political talk, because it's not about any imaginary problems and things, but here it's about the survival of the Bulgarian business and it's about the survival of hundreds of thousands of jobs. I call on you to reconsider your decision, to support the draft decision that we are proposing because it is really good for Bulgaria and for the Bulgarian business. Believe me that no Bulgarian citizen, no Bulgarian employer, will be angry with you if you support this decision. As my colleague Dobrev mentioned, we are ready, if you wish, to add the names of your colleagues, who you will present as importers of this project because it is really important for Bulgaria. So my call is: vote on your conscience, vote on the Bulgarian business! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Lord Valchev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The difference between what the Bulgarian employers offer and what the Bulgarian government offers is that in one case compensation is required from 75% and in the other case up to 30%. Let's see what the situation is and see if it's normal. I attended the meeting of the Budget Committee together with the Energy Committee. I had the opportunity to hear the position of Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev and he said that the risk should be shared. Yes, it is a market principle that I would agree with if the situation were normal. What's not normal about the situation? In a year and something we have four times the increase in emissions prices and nearly five times the increase in the price of electricity on the free market. There is no economic system and, respectively, an energy system that can absorb such shocks. These shocks are not characteristic of the real sector and there are no business entities that have such a reserve in the added value. Think about it, realize this thing, 30 percent fluctuation in the order of 500 percent, and one third means the inability to meet these shocks again. Such fluctuations and volatility can be seen in the financial markets, but in the real markets they are not. Understand that business will soon close much longer, and some are probably hoping that this is a temporary situation, and last year I listened to such words. The increase in energy prices is temporary, the increase in emissions is temporary. Your main short-term task is to save the business, realize this, honourable MPs of the ruling majority! Talk to your ministers, convince them, because if you don't save the business, there will be no funds left for anything left and there will be no funds for health, social policies, infrastructure and education. I have done my work, I do not claim representativeness of my sample, but on average 2.5 times is the increase in the energy accounts of educational institutions from December 2021 to December 2020. During the summer Minister Asen Vassilev as Finance Minister in the caretaker government refused to support the update for educational institutions and to raise the support funds. We found out the other day from the Budgetary Commission hearing that if there was a income policy, the compensation would be from April 1st the government had collected only VAT on increased electricity prices of more than 800 million. On the one hand, we boast that we are collecting additional income and, on the other, no compensation. He can't do business for a long time! I've also heard these rumors that business and budget organizations will somehow get better. Understand that they do not have this reserve in their budget, respectively in the added value. Your main task at the moment is to convince your ministers to compensate enough for business. Here it was mentioned about VMZ "Sopot" and the biggest Bulgarian employer is also closed because of the high prices of electricity, and the examples are many. As we were surprised by this unusual volatility in the markets of its size, it can also surprise us with its duration. Realize this because this whole situation can be prolonged and disastrous for the Bulgarian economy! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u222	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. For a line, Mr. Dobrev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u223	Mr. Valchev, I didn't understand one thing from you. You have affected the field of education and we know that there are delegated budgets, right? Schools have delegated budgets and they are fixed on the basis of the number of students. These budgets, as far as I'm concerned, are spent on two things for alimony and wages, right? The whole budget goes for alimony and wages, and if there's any money left, it goes for repairs. When the allowance is two or three times higher, where will the money come from and there is no more money? Doesn't that mean they're gonna cut wages?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u224	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Please extend the group's time that there are many speakers. Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u225	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev, your line is appropriate. It cannot be reduced unilaterally, of course, the basic wages that are in the employment relationship, but what will happen in educational institutions is that they will reduce the additional remuneration that does not have a permanent character, which means that they will actually reduce the remuneration of those working in the system. Apart from that, they've already dropped really. The CST said the other day, not GERB, that for the first time in 10 years we have a real reduction in incomes and the average salary, and at the minimum wage we have lower growth than inflation. In the bad 11 years we had a forwarding increase in average and minimum wage compared to inflation, that is, we have a real impoverishment, we will also have a nominal reduction in funds and we will wait for the compensation eventually from April 1st with the next budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u226	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. The word is Assen Baltov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u227	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Medical facilities are also a non-bit end-user. Keep in mind that hospitals, unlike proceedings, cannot make further increases in the values of either clinical pathways or the fees by which patients are examined. I made a reference to the medical facility where I was CEO, and I can tell you that in the last seven months, the cost of electricity per megawatt hour has become six times more expensive. Six times! And the compensation, which is proposed to enter for December, which is, of course, not charged in the invoice account, will be real. is VAT only, which is on the invoice charged, and another 29 or 30 BGN. additionally, i.e. the compensation will be BGN 30. I don't know how long they'll last like this. We all see that this is not normal, and what is more, that medical institutions do not have the possibility of compensation at all. I think what is being given even for compensation for medical institutions, and what is being said about 75% compensation, will also be extremely insufficient, because, seeing what the compensation for the months of October and November is, the accounts have risen three times. Understand that some change must really be made and a decision must be made, because this concerns all Bulgarian citizens who are currently being treated. We are currently entering the fifth wave of the Kovid epidemic, and we are not helping medical facilities in this way. On the contrary, we will reach the point that we will probably have to explain to people why they will receive less remuneration during the months of February and March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u228	Thank you, Mr. Baltov. Are there lines? Here's a line for you, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Professor Baltov, you and I are the most inappropriate of this tribune in this debate, in my opinion, but since you have allowed yourself to say something that answers the truth in part, I will allow myself to replicate you. You know very well as the former Director of Pirogov and as former government administrator what is the total amount of debt of hospitals, but while your political power has managed healthcare, as well as the entire political life in Bulgaria, none of your ministers have answered the questions how this debt has been reached. There were all kinds of proposals here next to you is a respected economist who had created a financial constitution of the medical institutions, which collapsed as the medical institutions themselves rebelled against it. Let's not argue this is history now. So let's not talk about medical facilities. The whole mechanism of their funding is wrong and your political power has supported it for 12 years. It is not now the problem for you and I to explain here, as Mr. Atalay said, to the Energetics how they should solve their problems. There are energyists here, they instill their decisions, their views, and the House will support or not support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u230	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Is there another line? I won't. Would you like a hole, Mr. Baltov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My duplicate is that thanks to the financial control measures taken since the Minister was Mr. Ananiev, in just one year the reduction was 30 million. And when everyone started working on this system, it really showed that there was a discount. As for what is happening at the moment, this will really lead to a change in this financial issue, because it will be difficult to achieve when we cannot actually pay our bills at the price that we have provided for three years of planning, which each of us is doing as CEO. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u232	Thank you, Mr. Baltov. To alternate the groups, Mr. Stanislav Anastasov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start where my colleague Ramadan Atalay ends, that business wants no help, not charity, and business wants compensation. Here, one to one, I quote the words we have heard from employers' organisations in the Commission. To clarify the business wants that part taken from them, through the price of electricity in some way, at least part of them, to be returned to them so that they continue to function. Here I am speaking cleanly and as an economist, and to have time, there is no doubt that this is a temporary measure, they will adjust to these changes. How long will this have to do, by the way, is also not clear, which in addition to the high price of electricity creates additional stress towards the business and it also, aligning with the Western model to start working after January 10th, is currently not daring to open, because there is absolutely no forecast and clarity what will happen as this month, but worse, and in the coming months. The second thing, yes, there is no doubt that perhaps this measure is not the most ideal, but there is no better at the moment. This is an assessment of the employers themselves.. we heard it from themselves, for one simple reason that at the moment there is neither a medium-term nor long-term strategy how the government will restructure the sector so that it can deal with electricity prices. By the way, I have taken the trouble of reading your Joint Management Programme. There were not bad ideas, however, we do not see them in action at the moment, which is a bit inexplicable for us, because if you wrote something in your program, it would be most logical that you would be ready to come out immediately and propose it with clear strategies, with clear tactics and with clear timing. Now I'm going to open up another topic about overprofits, because speaking of compensation, there's a big elephant in the room that nobody seems to want to talk about. DPS will talk. Speaking of over-profits, this is not just about over-profits in the nuclear power plant and in some of the state-owned companies. Overprofits have also made many private companies sellers, which is not bad, market, but there are also many producers that are related to traders. So the impression that the adjustment of the estimated market price has reduced the compensation for RES is not quite correct, because some producers of renewable energy "you very well know who they are, by the way, and the employers themselves know who they are, but dare not announce them, lest a part of the government be involved against them later, made very good profits at that time. And what we were missing from the discussion, and it would be nice to have both ministers here, is to hear an assessment of what overresource is generated as profit, so that we know very well what compensatory mechanisms employers, business can count on, and not someone doing over-profits really on the back of business, but as we understand, schools, hospitals, municipalities and any other groups that really need help in this case. Don't get me wrong, the DPS isn't against RES and green energy. Quite the opposite. However, the business plan of a RES here I see the colleagues from.. We continue the Change....................... they understand very well from this...... the business plan of RES even with the profit they had before the rise in the prices of the crisis, the business plans were very good. Even with such an old business plan at the moment, banks swimming in money will finance RES. However, there is one more detail here - August, we have repeated several times, the Commission has provided you with a wonderful plan for medium-term and long-term reforms to manage electricity prices. To this day, in the National Assembly, we do not know what resources he had for these over-profits and the DPS will not stop repeating: who made these over-profits, who generated them and is still generating them. But worse, starting some timid steps, for example at the cost of fast procedures for RES, I want to tell you that to date they are absolutely not working and you know it very well. Because even now you can do a quick procedure for building RES, which would reduce the price of electricity if you go to the market, the suppliers of equipment will tell you that they have orders for a year and more. Because other members of the European Union have done their procedures and are already building and they will be able to stabilize at least their markets in a few months. But one more thing I would like to disprove to make it clear and the need for this compensatory mechanism. The government's assessment that in the coming months business will not need assistance because energy prices will fall significantly, in no way corresponds to the assessment of the European Commission and the other member states with which we are on a single market for electricity and with which Bulgaria is doing its gas orders together, so I do not see much posture for optimism. By the way, I would like to welcome again my colleagues from "We are continuing the Change" because they in the Commission supported this mechanism in the first vote, and I am convinced that they realise how important it is and that is why they did it, and then I do not know why you changed the vote. I suppose it's purely conjunctual that someone has imposed something, but now you have the freedom to correct this choice so it doesn't happen like in the folk saying: "I just taught the donkey not to eat, it died. " - In this case, however, we are talking about the Bulgarian business and jobs, which does not make things any fun. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u234	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Next statement Mr. Alexander Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u235	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Many were said in today's debate, and in support of the proposed solution for the Bulgarian business. What we are proposing is coherent and, as has been repeatedly said by this tribune, I will not repeat it for the hundredth time, is agreed with both business and employers' organizations. They're monstrous bills, colleagues. I regret that the ruling majority is half empty. They should listen not to the opposition, but to common sense and take advantage of the opportunities for compensation. There are accumulated over-profits in state-owned companies, there are raised enough funds such as VAT and as excise duties from these increased prices of electricity carriers. And while, unfortunately, today the Minister of Energy will not be heard, he may have another view of compensation in order to control really this serious inflation and price growth, which affects, naturally, all Bulgarian citizens and indeed this is their impoverishment. As we have said, there are enough studies that really inflation ate this growth. 10 years old, in their incomes, for pensioners also, but are monstrous accounts for the business. Colleagues, I hope you will listen to common sense, not only to us as opposition, and to support our decision today, because at least I have not heard a single statement against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u236	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The line, Mr. Dobrev. Is there another line? I can't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ivanov, they don't understand you. Please give examples if you have specific examples, because we are talking in principle about the problem and the solution, but as if colleagues do not realize the extent of the problem in the enterprises themselves. I mean, how tragic the situation is, they don't understand. So the colleague Petkova gave a few examples, if you have one, give it to her. I myself have received probably hundreds of letters, as Mr. Atalay said, I do not believe any of the MPs in this Chamber did not receive either written or an email for two accounts. "December 2020" December 2021, or a call, or a comment from the business. We should all be aware of the situation, but please give examples.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u238	Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u239	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dobrev, yes, I will allow myself to give such a visual example and it is really important to colleagues, especially from the ruling majority in this Chamber, because perhaps by entering this Chamber, they forget the promises they have made to their voters, and it is good to remind them. Because our proposal to the difference of what was made by the Council of Ministers, from 30% to 75%, is twice and a half the difference. Correct me if I'm wrong. From 30%, colleagues, up to 75 to subsidize from the difference over the market, which is twice and a half. I'll give you an example. Yes, I've received a lot of signals, it's not signals, but really disturbing facts from employers -- small, medium and large, really small family businesses, and I've taken the liberty of printing it -- two invoices that maybe not just to you, and you turn to the management to illustrate them. Twelveth month 2020, December, the price in megawatt hour is 119.70 BGN. And to make the difference, unfortunately, the bad example in the change is December 2021, the twelfth again month 2021, I do not look at consumption, because according to the load is different, I look at the price of megawatt hours. So notice that it is four times the price of electricity that the Bulgarian business pays. This is what we talk hotels, we talk pastry shops, manufacturing enterprises, hairdressers, any kind of private service business, pays four times, colleagues, more price per year. For a year, we're talking about the difference. And while you were here explaining to me and the Finance Minister of the Commission was explaining, here, I've even done it more visually. [[shows two sheets with the written prices of electricity with red, December 2020. s. 119,70 BGN, and December 2021. BGN 480,28]] , how big is the difference 4 times. And while the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Energy in the joint meeting of the Commission said that this is a temporary phenomenon, to wait, well, colleagues, if you sit and you stand like a donkey on a bridge, the time for analysis, there will be no one left to help. Please support this decision. It's not the opposition, consider it really an act of goodwill. We simply tabled the decision requested by employers' organizations.. those who pay taxes that pay salaries, and therefore workers pay the pensions of our parents and parents. So please listen to common sense, don't get involved in the play to always counter the opposition. On the contrary, the opposition wants to be constructive and wants this in the name of Bulgarian citizens and businesses. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u240	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Now I give the floor to Mr. Nenkov, then he'll be Mr. Ganev, then Mr. Hristov. These are the records so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, before I begin, if I may do a procedure. Please put to the vote my procedural proposal that today's plenary session continue until the point is exhausted until its vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u242	I don't think there's gonna be a counterproposal. Let's get to the voting procedure. [[Heckling]] For a reverse offer? Here you go, Mr. Karimansky. Cancel the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u243	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a reverse proposal, as there are two very important committees meeting today. The Committee on Budget and Finance will discuss important laws, and the Committee on Energy. So you can continue, if you want this debate, or we can continue this debate tomorrow, where I propose to both Mr. Dobrev and the gentlemen of GERB, perhaps the Minister of Energy will come tomorrow, and it will be much more useful for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u244	Okay, you understand the arguments. Let's move on to the vote. And the colleagues who are online, I hope they're involved. There is a proposal to extend the time until this point is exhausted. That's what we're voting on right now. So, Anna Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u246	Ventislava Lyubenova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u247	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u248	Desislava Atanasova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u250	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u252	Kaloyan Ikonomov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u253	I'm holding back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u254	Mustafa Karadaye? He's gone. Nikola Minchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u255	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u256	Plamen Abrovski?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u257	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u258	And Hristo Ivanov? There's no Hristo Ivanov. Vote 196 MPs: 79, against 44, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. So we continue with Mr. Nenkov's statement. By the way, there is still a chance that it will be voted on, so it is a matter of tactics on the part of GERB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, with this vote to tell you, you are not doing yourself a favor. Dear rulers, this means that you have absolutely no idea of the seriousness of the problem that we are debating today. Once you are ready to spare yourself some 15 minutes, in which the meeting will continue due to many important other committees. Mr. Karimansky, isn't that important? Or is that unimportant? We are waiting for the winter to pass, perhaps waiting for spring to fall by itself the prices that survived. This is about what you want to tell your constituents, all Bulgarian citizens, all Bulgarian businesses. That's it. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] The more disturbing, however, is another. Colleagues, this silence is becoming increasingly disturbing by the four coalition parties ruling the country. The proposal Delyan Dobrev and our colleagues made, we said for a reason that it was not GERB, it was the Bulgarian employers, the biggest Bulgarian employers. If you really want what he suggested, do it, suggest it yourself. Or, please, someone get out of these four parties and finally break this silence, because we've been listening to a great silence all day, it's deafening. Go out and say either you are against this proposal and why you are against it or give some alternative to this proposal. Guys, you don't. Look, a hundred days of tolerance doesn't mean that you don't do anything for a hundred days. You should know that from now on. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Since you started this National Assembly, the only thing we have heard is for 12 years of GERB, who have been guilty now and for the price shock in recent months, and for the fact that there is no compensation for the business at the moment, we have heard this. We've heard that, but let's go down to the ground now, come in real time and come out of the Change, for example, and say something meaningful about the subject. Sorry, only Mr. Tabutov came out and said it was very important that the measures be timely. What, Mr. Tabutov, do you think is timely and what is the measure that currently exists so that you can say that they are timely? What we have heard, unfortunately, colleagues, in the last few weeks, was the proposal of the Minister of Ecology to bathe in twos or to work on Saturdays and Sundays. This is the only proposal, but unfortunately, I will have to disappoint you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u260	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. As Mr. Svilensky suggests, he didn't limit to two guys just co-operation or what it was like? Are there any lines to Mr. Nenkov's statement? Tabutov one line, Karimanski two, and third I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u261	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Nenkov! Compensation will have, yes, our proposal is in line with Mr. Dobrev and Stankov's proposal up to 75%, but with an additional condition, with a ceiling of 250 BGN. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] This thing is currently being discussed in the Council of Ministers, so we expect them to come up with a solution soon. This is the government's position. When? [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] It's not really up to me. Thank you. [[Applause from Continued Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u262	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Mr. Karimanski, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u263	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleagues of GERB, I think it is not worthy to say that we are slowing down or that we do not want to consider the problem of energy as a whole. Firstly, because personally I, Mr. Dobrev, and colleagues from the Budget and Finance Committee can say whether it was not the case, at the very first possible meeting of the Budget and Finance Committee, I put this issue under consideration. Other things could have been put at ease to consider the Commission, but this was correct on our part, and I think it was fair to put this problem, just as we did afterwards, and we immediately reacted to a Commission which would be jointly between the Budget and Finance Committee and the Energy Commission. In the Energy Commission, the Minister of Energy and the Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and the Minister of Finance made clear what compensation there would be in December, which compensation and the colleague mentioned earlier, and at the same time employers were quite active in this discussion. There was proposed very clearly to have a joint technical meeting between employers, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Finance. Such a meeting, as far as I have information, has been held. In this meeting employers were okay, so they will receive compensation for December and this compensation has already been specified. That is why I have proposed to you to continue this debate tomorrow. One day, Mr. Nenkov, nothing will happen. One day, no one's gonna be that poor. Or the invoices, we know they're monthly, they're not daily. So I suggested that tomorrow we continue this debate, that the Minister of Energy come along with other colleagues, if we have to call, and they give enough details about these measures for December, and why not for the beginning of next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u264	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Third line, Mr. Dobrev? Here you go. Or? Last one? You've done a lot of lines this time, Mr. Dobrev. Let's get Mr. Nenkov's ass.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u265	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'll be very brief because I want to get to the vote. Mr. Karimansky, I have no criticism that you delayed anything. My criticism is that you don't do anything. That's a very big difference. And fellow Members of the ruling majority, it is high time you started to remove the word "I will" and "I will." This is for your own good. That today was unfathomable, that we wouldn't be voting on it today, or tomorrow, colleagues, we've only been hearing about some analysis for a few weeks about some excel tables, about what we're going to, will, will. However, this will not help anyone, but all this will be written on your account, you know.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u266	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Now the word for speech is Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u267	Mr. Chairman! Dialogue! Since the beginning of parliament, we have been talking about dialogue and hearing from the government. You have a very good example in this part of the room for lack of dialogue, sensitivity and 12 years to do what they have decided. You do exactly the same thing, only unlike them, you started on the first day. Specifically on the subject and why I mentioned that. When the moratorium that was adopted was voted on, we made a concrete proposal before it, which we proposed as an option, so that there would be no moratorium. [[Noise and lines. Reference between the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev and the Chairman.]] I'm gonna ask you!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u268	What do you want me to do?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u269	I don't want to be replicated. Today, I'm in over my head with the ruling tolerant. Let's not say, junta.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u270	Don't replicate Mr. Ganev because he's a little nervous today! [[Radio, laughter and partial applause.]] Please let him speak!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u271	We proposed that a specific solution with legislative change and subsequently implemented by KEWRC should be offered as a priority the electricity produced by our National Nuclear Power Plant, sold in Bulgaria. So we would have avoided the moratorium and all that stuff we're discussing right now. He didn't take it! He gave up! It's not even discussed in any way! We have a business support proposal right now. It is very nice to understand that business support does not just mean the big business, which is priority for several oligarchs. Here the business is every neighborhood pub, every cafe... [[Laughter and excitement.]] No, it's not funny! ...every hair salon, every small, small family business. It's destruction, genocide on business. You may find it very funny, but 30% you offer is absolutely nothing. Specifically, when a joint Committee on Energy and Budget and Finance was held, the big business representatives in question came. They made specific figures that your Minister of Finance didn't deny, your experts from the Ministry of Finance didn't deny. Do you know what these figures said that 50%, and they offer 75%, will in no way break the balance of the fissure and there will in no way be a shock in the budget, proven by figures, after which your Finance Minister said: "Okay, 35%. "It happened as a bingo and auction. At the moment I don't know if it's 35%, you're all commenting 30%. Most likely there are some solutions that do not come down to the knowledge of the House, some arrangements made. I ask you again: stop smashing everything that is being proposed by the opposition. Understand that what is offered in this case is support for small, family, large and whatever other business you can think of for both a business that is only in the field of services and for a business that, although little, we have for some export of goods from Bulgaria that give added value. At the moment, with your stubbornness and the accumulation of surpluses, which you will then redistribute without a sanction to Parliament, is a known Tactic of GERB. You'll outrun her! You outdid it even at the end of the year. This leads you to nothing and gives you nothing because you cut down the branch where we all sit as a society. By destroying business, you're destroying jobs. Because tomorrow these people from the bankrupt business will go to the social system, we'll have to give them benefits. Then there'll be no money for anything. There will be some foreign chains that will eventually go away. Hardheadedness, quitting accounts to accept 75%. Take 50%! And then I proposed it to the Commission. A grave silence, no comment from the government. I do not know who you are proving with all these policies in different areas, explaining from the first day the opposition to be constructive, to be creative, to support you in good decisions. We will support you in every good decision you offer. We'll back you up! But we also offer you specific solutions based on figures. Even these decisions are not ours, but of business, of the same business that you refuse to support. I know you won't realize it, and I know you won't vote. However, it is important to hear it from the Bulgarian citizen who is listening right now to know that the promised continuing change will not happen to those people who are here who have become the rubber stamp of our ruling government.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u272	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines to Mr. Ganev's statement? I can't see. Rumen Hristov and Delyan Dobrev signed up for a speech. Rumen Hristov? He's giving up. Mr. Dobrev? He's giving up. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev. [[Noise and cheering:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u273	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the last few speeches we listen to great demagogy and political speeches, especially the gum we heard several times today from GERB about the analyses to be made. Yes, when you have ruled for a very long time and the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly weighs like an anchor, analyses must be carried out because, wherever it is touched, corruption models arise. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Once there are corruption models... [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, yeah, everyone who bounces, maybe you're part of those models, it'll understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u274	Take it easy, guys! Please, we're almost there!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u275	That's not the point. Once you have these patterns, wherever you touch it, you need to do an analysis. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Because many of these models are related to the way of management and not only management, but to changing the legislation that has made stealing almost legal. Maybe not morally, but legally. Here is the Inhouse procedures, which are a European practice, are used in a totally distorted way to quickly absorb some funds. It's taxpayers' money. These funds, instead of reaching where they need compensation, have been stolen.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u276	On the subject, Mr. Ananiev! Let's stick to the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u277	Yeah, that's the theme.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u278	Let's make the connection now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u279	I'll tell you the connection. Since compensation must be made, funds must come from somewhere. This means we hope that some of them will come from what was stolen, which was done, especially during the time of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. So don't jump to the word analysis. After these analyses half the people of GERB will not prove to be protected witnesses against the other half for various schemes and models. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u280	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Are there any lines to Mr. Ananiev's statement? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? If there isn't, we're going to vote. We're closing the discussion. Project! DECISION introducing a compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers in the electricity market The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. The Minister of Energy and the Minister of Finance shall draw up a compensatory mechanism to compensate non-bit final customers up to 75% of the difference between the estimated market price set out in Decision C-27 of 1 July 2021 of the KEWRC and the average monthly market price of the BNB EAD platform. The value of the component's own funds shall not be lower than the estimated market price in Decision No C-27 of 1 July 2021 of the KEWRC. 2. The compensatory mechanism shall enter into force from 1 December 2021 Please vote. Restart the vote. I'm asking again for a voting procedure! Colleagues who participate online. Anna Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u282	Ventislava Lyubenova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u283	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u284	Desislava Atanasova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u286	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u288	Kaloyan Ikonomov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u289	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u290	Mustafa Karadaye? He's gone. Nikola Minchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u291	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u292	Plamen Abrovski?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u293	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u294	Hristo Ivanov? He's gone. They voted 199 MPs: 82, against 83, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. Please re-vote! Anna Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u296	Ventislava Lyubenova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u297	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u298	Desislava Atanasova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u300	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u302	Kaloyan Ikonomov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u303	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u304	Mustafa Karadaye is gone. Nikola Minchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u305	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u306	Plamen Abrovski?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u307	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-13.u308	Hristo Ivanov is gone. Vote 197 MPs: 83 against 83, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I will make an announcement about parliamentary control: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadzhov will answer seven questions from the MPs Ivan Chenchev; Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; Krum Zarkov; Boyko Klechkov; Denitsa Nikolova; Ivaylo Mirchev and Rositsa Kirova. 2. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Georgi Gokov will answer two questions from the MPs Denitsa Sacheva and Stefan Mirev. 3. The Minister of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov will answer a question from the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev. 4. The Minister of Health Asena Serbenova will answer two questions from the National Representative Kostadin Angelov and one question from the National Representative Elena Guncheva. 5. The Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov will answer 2 questions from the MPs Krum Zarkov and Ivan Totev and one question from the MP Tsveta Galunova. 6. The Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov will answer a question from the MP Rumen Hristov. 7. The Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev will answer a question from the MP Dimitar Nikolov. 8. The Minister of Innovation and Growth Daniel Lorre will answer a question from the MP Denitsa Nikolova. 9. The Minister of Energy Alexander Nikolov will answer four questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov two questions; Krasimir Valchev and Slavena Tocheva. On the basis of art. 92, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Due to participation in a meeting of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council for the election of President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to quarantine as contact points of a positive for COVID-19 person in the parliamentary control meeting will not participate: Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Kiril Petkov; Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev; Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov and Defence Minister Stefan Yanev. Tomorrow's session continues with parliamentary control at 9:00. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
