ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Please register. 154 registered MPs. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Before we move on to parliamentary control, let me read you a message: On 25 May 2022, the Commission for Protection against Discrimination was submitted to the National Assembly a Report on the activities of the Monitoring Board under the Law on Disabilities for 2021. The material was submitted to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. [[National Representative Desislava Taneva wants the floor.]] Here you are, Mrs. Taneva, for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u2	Mr. Chairman, MPs, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister! A few days ago it became clear from the media that the European Commission has returned the Strategic Plan on the Common Agricultural Policy of Bulgaria with the record 405 comments and comments compared to the remarks of the other member states. This, unfortunately, reflects the realities of the sector, reflecting the political instability in the last year, three governments in the last year, two official and last regular ones. Each of them decided that the world began from it, left its mark in the strategic document in the absence of dialogue, hearing and upgrade. We will also remain the only Member State from which large branch organisations directly appealed to the Commission the Strategic Plan for these reasons. The lack of hearing and real dialogue as a consistent policy led to first meetings directly between industry organizations in the sector and representatives of European authorities without government involvement. Inaction with regard to support for the sector and lack of predictability and security in the business environment, the drastic reduction in production volumes only in the greenhouse production in the winter it decreased between 70. 80%; numerous are the announcements for liquidation of elite herds, small farms; the BATA AGRO Exhibition, industrymen announced and a disturbing reduction in the production of individual types of stock crops. The demand for direct support from the European authorities. And for the first time, branch organisations held such with the President of the Committee on Rural Areas, and yesterday I also received a message from farmers about an upcoming meeting with the Commissioner for Agriculture Vojcehovski without the state for the first time in history since we were a member of the European Union. The change for Bulgarian farmers started with the budget. The ruling majority raised the minimum social security threshold as an effect at the moment we have, of course, fewer farmers; those who do not have the opportunity to pay their contributions, and they did not even know that in all the measures for direct income support will receive lower support than the previous year, the fruit of the expert management of the instruments for support with European and national funds. The change continued with the later payment of this support under any income support measure. Everything was happening with the continuing reduction in production of priority industries for the coalition majority of greenhouses, vegetable production and livestock production. The change continued with an action plan. How do we not lose European funds under the leaking Rural Development Programme? In one of the options, about 50 million. Euros! We have returned to the times of our entry into the European Union. The only first two years in which there was such a loss, I do not even quote governance then, because in the end this is also the practice in other countries that have just entered the Union. All of this was happening against the backdrop of constant changes in the management of the Fund..... stopping almost completed receptions, lack of any reaction, at increased prices, inflation, of the already completed adoptions and approved business plans, although available such practice has. But the world starts with us. The opposition is sabotaging. Out of respect for the working agricultural sector, I will spare them the attitude to quote. And so, we continue the change, we have ruled out the full rehabilitation of the Irrigation Systems. From the National Plan for Recovery and Sustainability, motives such as from Facebook taken, there is no point in quoting. We are continuing the change in the sector. After the almost forgotten government of Jean Videnov, which remained in history among records, such as inflation, but also like the latter, intervened directly on the grain market in Bulgaria, as a result of which bread became a deficit, and went bankrupt then, the ruling majority in its typical spectacular media style loudly announced the creation of a food resource of grain worth 1.1 billion. lv. This happened on March 4th. In June 4th, we're three months later, there's not a ton of grain bought, there's no way. Meanwhile, the state reserve itself went out to the Sofia Stock Exchange in early April, with offers buying at BGN 635. a tonne of wheat, provided that 570 BGN. In a ton would be created this reserve and, of course, did not buy anything after a week's stay on the Sofia Stock Exchange. The harvest is coming, it begins the coming days, everything is going well so far, and we will again have crops in times more than we consume. The government's unnecessary actions have brought only harm, including imagery, to the market. We need to know that all of this has happened in the event of unprecedented administrative arbitrariness on the operators of this market. Delayed supply ships paid penalties by international contract operators that they had as a result of trading on international exchanges. At the same time, farmers were asking for funds to ensure the immediate feeding of the animals, with a clear understanding that prices would grow and any help was not in time water in the sand. And not to mention the missing effect for consumers. So what if you spend a billion dollars? 100 million. lv. for grain at these market high prices? The aim of the transition through the crisis is to do everything at bearable prices for both people and vulnerable consumers, not to enter a completely transparent market that has been functioning for years and to damage the supply chain at all. No one has been born with experience and knowledge, but simple wisdom, understanding and respect for everyone creating a product in Bulgaria is needed. Self-sufficientness in government can only guarantee yet another failure. Nobody wants us to keep failing. Please support the vulnerable with this resource and let the professionals manage the stocks as for years this is done. I cannot help but add the humiliating vote by the National Assembly on the text from the Ukrainian Embassy on how we will export Ukrainian grain through the port of Varna. Couldn't you call someone, any of the operators in Bulgaria, whose shipments you checked for two weeks, is that possible? It's just for serious treatment. Only weeks later, the Ukrainian agricultural minister himself reported in Brussels that this could not happen in Varna. Of course, I exclude the hypothesis of a spectacular media spectacle of the type of aircraft Sofia "Skopje," after another retention of the trade, to see a press release with photos amid sailing the smallest possible ship with Ukrainian grain. And so we continued the change. In the Strategic Plan on the Common Agricultural Policy, changes to changes in the changes in three governments and their alternate ministers of agriculture put their mark on this document. Bulgaria submitted its Plan on 25 February "Almost two months after the deadline. The record 405 notes as a result of all the above and other weaknesses can be summarized in the following. It's about basic matters. There is no strategy for the development of Bulgarian agriculture in the Strategic Plan. The consistency and consistency of the Plan and its strategic direction should be improved. Secondly, the Plan has no idea how to develop a competitive, sustainable and diversified agricultural sector that provides long-term food security. Thirdly, on supporting and strengthening environmental protection, including biodiversity and climate action, the Commission has doubts as to the effectiveness of the Plan to achieve the scale of changes needed to meet needs. Fourth, on strengthening the socio-economic structure of rural areas, the regional differences are not addressed in the Plan. No national values are included in the Plan for any of the objectives of the Strategy from the farm to the table and the Biodiversity Strategy, except for the quantitative indicator of areas of organic production from 2.5 to 6.98. However, the Commission considers that this is insufficiently ambitious. Just a few painful comments for farmers, as I do not have enough time. The strategic plan does not provide sustainable solutions for young farmers. According to note 70, Bulgaria must provide solutions to meet the needs of young farmers related to access to land and capital, as well as investment in agricultural activity............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Secondly, according to notes 84 and 85, Bulgaria's planned simplification in practice does not give a working solution. According to note 108, Bulgaria is invited to clarify the following paragraph: at the cost drop, 2.5 times the average gross salary, part of the ruling majority's coalition agreement, in such a way that it cannot be accepted. According to notes 122 to 135, the conditions of good agricultural environmental standards 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 8, which are generally conditions for obtaining full direct support, are not in practice accepted. According to note 138, Bulgaria must protect these 600 hectares, something that has not been done. According to note 163, sad news about potato manufacturers and concerns about pepper producers. The potatoes for consumption................................................................................. The proposed programme for the sector "Beekeeping" "fullly rejected by the Commission," remarks 172 to 198. For animal welfare, note 266 is excluded, two of the most intensive sectors of pig farming and poultry farming are excluded, and the Commission's motive is that these sectors are free to grow and that there is motivation for this. About 100 notes are next for investment measures only. And one more thing, I'm finishing up, also very interesting for farmers. Bulgaria has not proposed a new reference year for the aid to tobacco in 404 note and in 405 note Bulgaria has not proposed a new reference year for national transitional aid to animals. Two aids which, together with our MEPs from all the political forces, we defended in the negotiation process and succeeded, and now we haven't even offered them! For consumers in Bulgaria. Foods rose the most except for those in Lithuania, according to a publicly announced report yesterday. In general, Eastern Europe is the highest appreciation. It is due to the lower support received by producers. Dear Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, MPs! The current government is certainly the most left-wing government then of Jean Videnov in the new history of our country, this is undoubtedly for everyone in the sector. Unthinkable until recently about normal market relations interferences, distortions became a political toolkit for governance and obedience. [[The President signals that time has expired. Noise and lines.]] I don't have time, I stop, I can add a lot more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u3	Quiet in the evil one, please! One minute over time, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u4	That is why in short: We are continuing the Change and only led to a complete failure in the agricultural sector! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u5	Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Before we begin with the questions and questions I will read to you the written answers to questions and questions received for the period 20 May 2022. Written responses have been received from: - Minister Aleksandar Nikolov on a question from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; on a question from the National Representative Hristo Terziyski; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Asen Vassilev on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Atanas Atanasov on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on a question from the National Representative Ivan Klisurski; on a question from the National Representative Ilian Yonchev; on a question from the National Representative Petar Nikolov; on a question from the National Representative Hristo Ivanov; on a question from the National Representative Tsveta Galunova; - Minister Boyko Rashkov on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on a question from the National Representative Petar Petrov; on a question from the National Representative Hristo Terziyski; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Borislav Sandov on a question from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev and a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Georgi Gokov on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Grozdan Karadjov on a question from the MPs Desislava Taneva and Maria Belova; three questions from the MP Ivaylo Mirchev; two questions from the MP Ilian Yonchev. - Minister Daniel Lorre on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister Dragomir Zakov on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Ivan Ivanov to a question from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev; to a question from the MPs Alexander Dunchev, Gergana Daneva and Ekaterina Dimitriusheva; to a question from the MPs Alexander Dunchev, Dimitar Nedyalkov, Vladislav Panev and Ivaylo Mirchev; to a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; to a question from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; - Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Prime Minister Kiril Petkov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Klisurski; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Cornelia Ninova on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Nadezhda Yordanova on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Nikolay Denkov on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Nikolay Subev to six questions from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; to a question from the National Representative Nikola Dimitrov; - Minister Radostin Vassilev on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on a question from the National Representative Ilian Yonchev; - Minister Teodora Gencovska on two questions from the National Representative Branimir Balachev; on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Hristo Prodanov on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev. We start with questions and questions. Prime Minister Kiril Petkov will respond to a question by the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Delyan Peevski, Halil Letifov and Stanislav Anastasov regarding a decision of the Council of Ministers, which allows the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the National Company of Railway Infrastructure to sign a contract for financing of the project "Modernization railway line Sofia BGN, provided by Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure " 2014 " 2020. Here you are, Mr. Anastasov, to present your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, I cannot help but respond to what you said today to the DPS group, entering the Chamber that DPS has become very cowardly. My dear Prime Minister, you do not know either the democratic history of Bulgaria or the history of DPS. Now let's get to the point. It's good to see you again, so soon after our last meeting, really. Mr. Petkov, you have come to power with the loud request for zero tolerance for corruption, like Jeffrey Archer Ignacious's hero, the Great Broom, the Nigerian Minister. If you have not read it, I strongly recommend that you read it. So the time has come to support your thunderous words with action. But what's happening? According to a communication published on 13 May 2022 on the website of the Ministry of Transport, following the express permission of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the National Company And 200,000. BGN, which will be provided by Operational Programme The same communication states that according to the decision of the Council of Ministers in question, the managing authority of the Operational Programme entered into the contract before the approval of the European Commission project in order to select the performers of the two Voluyak Lots Given the above circumstances, please answer us: Firstly, on what basis has the Council of Ministers ordered or authorised the contract in question to be signed, provided that the project has not yet been approved by the European Commission? Secondly, are the actions of the Council of Ministers in line with the rules of the Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure" and the rules of the Ministry of Transport and Transport in order to spend European funds? And thirdly, will the Council of Ministers take action to stop this project, and within what time after its actions, as well as those of the managing authority, have been committed in breach of procedures, operational programme regulations and create prerequisites for abuse? I ask for very specific answers, not to comment again on the weather forecast in Manitoba. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u7	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Mr. Petkov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs! The railway line Sofia is an object of national importance. It was announced as such by decision of the Council of Ministers of 8 July 2011. This is more than 10 years ago. The specific section of your question Voluyak "Dragoman" is part of the big project "Modernization of the railway line Sofia" "Dragoman "Serbian border" which is one of the pre-defined projects of the DINT network and is part of the National Railway Transport Network of the Republic of Bulgaria. The implementation of the project "Modernization of the railway line Sofia" "Dragoman" is of particular importance, and is of public importance, which is why it is a priority of our government. The decision No 295 of 9 May 2022 by which the Council of Ministers consents to the Managing Authority Operational Programme 24, para. 4 of the same law. In accordance with art. 24, para. 4 organs under para. 1, in case the managing and managing body of the Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure" may provide grants for major projects within the meaning of art. 100 of the European Union Regulation No 1303 of 2013 and prior to the approval of the Commission pursuant to art. 102 of that regulation, which is based on a decision of the Council of Ministers. Under the Law, there is a requirement that the specific decision of the Council of Ministers should indicate who will be the source of the project's funding and, in case the Commission does not approve or approve only part of the project, the decision of the Council of Ministers states that, if the European Commission does not approve, the funds will be provided by the National Company's budget. In other words, all legal requirements are met. The implementation contracts themselves were signed on 22 March 2021, and what I talked about today with the Minister of Transport, there will be very careful monitoring of these projects for their full and qualitative implementation, so I can guarantee that everything is in the order of the law, and the implementation itself will be done in a way that you will see that the change has actually come. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u9	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Here you are, Mr. Anastasov, for further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u10	Awesome Prime Minister Petkov, you said...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u11	I should have been there first, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u12	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u13	I should've been there first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u14	Mr. Chairman, honourable and feared Prime Minister Petkov! So, you've spoken a lot of facts about tentim, by the way, tentim, bruise, is the net that's kind of true, but you still haven't answered any of my questions. Yeah, the managing authority is the program, they can really approve, but there's a procedure. In this case, you seem to be in a hurry. You're in a hurry to pay 166 million. BGN, bypassing the European Commission. Whether you are in a hurry for the Voluyak train, we are yet to find out, and you may miss it, because you have actually insured that the Commission will not approve this project and it will come out of the pocket of the Bulgarian taxpayer. This is the decision of the Council of Ministers, which you, by the way, have personally approved...................................................................................... Otherwise, obviously, European themes, as well as the theme of investing European funds from structural and cohesion funds in a legitimate manner, I repeat, legitimately, I clarify, without violating the Bulgarian laws and European regulations and rules, you are not clear much. However, your mechanism of action is clear, as you have again made some suggestions related to this topic, accusing the DPS, accusing a particular person. When you throw mud at the DPS and our colleague Peevski, you obviously do exactly what you claim others do. It also has to do with streams, it has to do with construction...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u15	Mr. Anastasov, are these two supplementary questions or attitudes now?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u16	Yes, two supplementary questions, Mr. Chairman, as many as the answers...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u17	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u18	...the Prime Minister's answers were answered. Thank you and have a good day! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u19	Thank you. Will you take the back? Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u20	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! What I understand is that the movement for rights and freedoms is focused solely on the protection of one of his MPs, Delyan Peevski, and all the talks, comments, both from the platform and the media, are to stand in full protection of Delyan Peevski. I understand that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is their only focus, but I think we can also focus on more important issues than its overall and full protection. The Bulgarian population knows why you do it. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u21	Thank you. You're entitled to an attitude. Are you taking attitude or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u22	Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, we will not stop bothering you with the legality and fight against corruption, which somehow started to kill you like those cocks in the photo. But...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u23	Mr. Anastasov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u24	...please be aware that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will protect every Bulgarian citizen who has become the subject of your aggression and mud campaign of you and the circle of Capital if he is to be from the PP. Because we also know about colleagues from the PP who have become the object of this aggression. Yes, we'll protect them! Any innocent man who is accused will be protected. This is the rule of law here and everywhere. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u25	Thank you. With this we have exhausted the questions and questions to Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. We're moving on to... [[Heckling]] Procedure? Okay. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! My procedure is with you, Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. I would like to ask you respectfully, we understand that the upbringing and so personal moments in this regard and the manner of speaking are a priority of each Member of the National Assembly, but it seems to me that the addresses in this Chamber, as we have heard them today, are violating the absolutely ethical code of conduct in this Chamber and should not be allowed. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u27	Thank you for this procedure, Mrs. Petrova. We move on to the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy and Minister for Environment and Water Borislav Sandov. The first question is from the National Representative Vladimir Tabutov and the second from the National Representative Rositsa Kirova. Is it okay if we switch them as places? Only if Mr. Tabutov has no problem. Thank you, Mr. Sandov. All right, well, then, please, Mrs. Kirova, develop your question about whether an Environmental Impact Assessment Report has been put in place for a pre-investment survey for a route along the Montana route, Sofia with a tunnel under Petrohan.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is related to the procedure for which more than one year I have been listening from this tribune to how all available information in writing and in oral, which I have received, is that such an Environmental Impact Report has not been commissioned. The new route from Montana to Sofia with a tunnel under Petrohan is extremely important for the development of Northwestern Bulgaria. Given the environmental orientation of your Ministry and what you have previously dealt with, I assure you that a tunnel across the mountain will be much more sparing for birds, habitats and for the environment than a road that is lapping across the mountain and at the peaks. So my question is: is there any such assignment prepared at all? What have you received from the Road Infrastructure Agency in this regard, because I know that they must submit the request? Is such an environmental impact assessment being worked on? What are the deadlines if the assessment is given? When would that evaluation be ready? I want more detailed information because everyone who lives in this part of Bulgaria is really interested in whether this project is progressing. One first step was taken and somewhere we stopped in space. I say we move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Here you are, Mr. Sandov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kirova, I agree with you that the passage under Petrohan will be more environmentally friendly, given that in the high part of the mountain and at the ridge there are areas rich in biodiversity and wildlife. This would, of course, shorten the period for moving through this route and create greater prosperity for the region of Northwestern Bulgaria. Specifically, however, because your question is not whether I am more in one sense or another about such a project, but your question is related to the procedure itself. In this direction I have prepared an answer, and I will give you the short one, and the long one will leave it for you. On 14 July 2021, the Ministry of Transport notified a pre-investment survey for a route along the direction of Montana, Sofia with a tunnel under Petrohan with a contracting entity. A competent authority for EIA decision-making is the Minister for Environment and Water, as it concerns a territory controlled by two different regional inspections, that of Montana, and that of Sofia. For the purposes of the EEA Agreement, this investment proposal is subject to a mandatory environmental impact assessment as it constitutes an amendment and extension of the existing route II-81 and independently meeting the criteria under the Annexes to the Law. In this connection, the investment proposal is also subject to an assessment of compatibility with the object and objectives of conservation of protected sites of Natura 2000 ecological network under the provisions of art. 31, para. 1 of the Biodiversity Act. In accordance with the requirements of art. 39, para. 3 of the Directive on the assessment of compatibility has been assessed for the probable degree of negative impact on protected areas of the Natura 2000 ecological network. The assessment found that the investment proposal in light blue and dark blue is likely to have a significant negative impact on natural habitats, populations and habitats of species subject to conservation in affected protected areas. By letter of the Ministry of Environment, exit No EIA-29 of 28 July 2021, the API was given instructions to the contracting authority to take further action in carrying out the environmental assessment procedure, together with the compatibility assessment procedure. In particular with regard to: preparation of an EIA scope and content assignment for the investment proposal, conduct consultation on the ISAS assignment with other specialised departments and the affected public, award of the EIA report, award of an assessment report on the extent of impact as an annex to the EIA report. The award of the assessments is the responsibility of the contracting authority. Until now, no documentation has been submitted by the contracting authority with regard to the scope and content of the Environmental Impact Assessment Report, including applications, as well as information on the award of the required sites. That's the more detailed part of the answer. [[Presents the response of the MP Rositsa Kirova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u31	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Would you like a line, Mrs. Kirova? No. Thank you. We move on to the next question, which is from the MP Vladimir Tabutov about the signal about the problem of the drainage of the Struma river in the part to Blagoevgrad. Here you go, Mr. Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, in connection with the flood of 12 December last year, which was one of the most significant, unfortunately, for the last 10 years I recall, also 2010 there was a very serious flood along the Struma River, numerous signals were received from citizens of Blagoevgrad for a problem with the drainage of the Struma River between the part of the town of Blagoevgrad and the Kresna Gorge. In this regard, my question is as follows: have the relevant checks been carried out by the Swimming Directorate to ensure the safety of the section and the cleaning of the river, which are the subject of construction of the highway of Struma and are affected by this construction? The question is: what actions will be taken to clear the section of construction materials and restore the integrity of the dike for these parts of the river? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u33	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u34	Dear Mrs. Kirova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tabutov, your country has asked for information from the competent authority, in this case the Basin Directorate of the West White Sea Region, according to which I inform you the following. In connection with the construction of sections of Struma Motorway, Lot 3.1, Blagoevgrad, Krupnik from the director of the Swimming Directorate were issued five permits for using a water site along Struma River, respectively for building a bridge from the road link, I will not mention about the individual kilometres of this is 90 km, for building a semi-viaduct from the left lane, for building a bridge at Struma River for protection of high water levels in a section of the highway, for building a new bridge facility at the site of an existing bridge. In order to prevent flooding in the area in all permits, the following requirements are laid down as part of the conditions under which the right to use is granted: construction to be carried out according to an approved investment project including a safety and health plan and a project for the management of construction waste without prejudice to the possibility of free drainage of the waters of Struma River, construction to be carried out in such a way that the conduction of the river bed is not reduced after completion of the construction, the profile of the river will be restored to its design form. Upon adoption by the Law on the construction of the territory of the sites for which a permit has been granted by the Swimming Directorate, the terms of the permits have been found to be fulfilled, including the dikes and the profile of the river, as well as the normal conduction of the riverbed is ensured. There is only one signal in the Ministry's system, which is not directly related to the drain of the Struma river, but concerning the implementation of activities in the construction of the flood protection facilities on the right bank of the river and activities in the cleaning of the river bed. A check was carried out by the Swimming Directorate on the day of its receipt 14 January 2020. For the activities carried out in the river bed there is a permit issued under the Law on Water and use of a surface water site. In connection with the construction of Struma Motorway, Lot III.1, the Swimming Directorate has carried out two checks related to ensuring the conductivity of the Struma River on 5th and 31st of January this year, respectively, which found that there is no displacement of the riverbed. In the second inspection carried out on 31 January, as of this year, it was co-existed by the order of the district governor of Blagoevgrad district, there was found a cluster of land masses falling within the PI No 49/179.100.1. The village of Moshanets is this, public state property, with a way of lasting use for the motorway, there is no displacement of land mass, public state property. During the tour, the Commission found undermining of the left coast. This is already the new undermining of the left bank of the Struma river, which is close to road I.1 Sofia This section is to be investigated in 2022 by an interdepartmental commission appointed by the district governor. In establishing violations of the Water Act and related regulations, the Swimming Directorate will take administrative criminal action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u35	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Do you have a line, Mr. Tabutov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I will give a little bit of a specific example of breaking the conduction of the Struma River just before the bridge that was built before the tunnel. The crossing of the river is perhaps about 200 meters before the tunnel facility. There, according to what we received as a signal, the riverbed was significantly reduced, as a result of which, on December 12, a lot of areas were flooded about 200 meters, before this limitation of the river. So I don't know if you're familiar with this particular case, have you paid attention? I'd like to ask you if you could give me a little more information about the current condition. Of course, in writing. I understand you may not know these details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u37	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u38	Dear Mrs. Kirova, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Karadjov! Dear Mr. Tabutov, in fact there is no such information available to me, but as far as the site is concerned is important, both for local level and for national level, as far as this is one of the main sections, especially in this period of the year, I will make an additional check, especially for this bridge facility and the potential risks associated with undermining or closing, in general with the passage of the river and will inform you in due time from the additional inspection carried out. Thank you for that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u39	Thank you for your answer, Minister. With this, the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy and Minister for Environment and Water were exhausted. We are moving on to the questions of Grozdan Karadjov, Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works, and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from the MPs Adlen Shevked, Bajram Bajram, Pavlin Krastev and Mukaddes Nalbant regarding the rehabilitation of Republican road III-59.02 Momchilgrad Who will ask the question from you, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, we from Kardzhali District continue to remind you and to tell you about the problems that are there because they are gathered in the years. That is why we are going to ask a third-class question that connects two areas. The state of the Republican road network in the territory of Kardzhali region, especially the third-class roads, are in a very unsatisfactory state and are riddled with holes, asphalt pavement is in very poor condition with numerous bumps and tucked ditches. In areas of the road with a small gauge, the watercourses have small openings and conductivity, which cannot absorb the amount of water that leads to a break in the road surface, and the villages remain in isolation. In a miserable state is Republican road III-5902 Momchilgrad "Svezdel" "Big Chinka" "Tokachka" - Krumovgrad, which is 16,668 m long, which serves two municipalities, namely Momchilgrad and Krumovgrad. Road traffic is dangerous and can cause severe road accidents if appropriate measures are not taken. That is why, Minister, our question to you is: when will the necessary actions be taken by the Road Infrastructure Agency to carry out a major renovation of Republican road III-5902 Momchilgrad Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u41	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Shevked, Mrs. Nalbant, Mr. Bajram and Mr. Krastev, Republic Road III-5902 Momchilgrad During the second half of this year it is planned to announce the public procurement for the development of a technical project for the major repair of this road, i.e. on the 17km track. The division is from the intersection with road II-259 at the village of Debelika to the village of Vodevitsa. Making a technical project, as you know, is the first and mandatory step in terms of the law before any quality construction works are undertaken. The project will define the specific repair and reconstruction activities that need to be implemented, the estimated value of the construction works and the duration of the implementation. Upon completion of a project, the open procedures under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of contractors of construction and construction supervision will also be possible. At this stage, it is envisaged that the main repair will be in 2024, given the uncertainty of the procedures, the duration of the procedures that I have just informed you about. For the period until its launch, we will carry out annual activities on ongoing repair and maintenance and according to the annual report of the Agency, Road Infrastructure and the state of the Republican Road Network as of 31 December last year, this third-class road was estimated to be in a dominant average state of pavement, with the last complete repair on road III-5902 being carried out 16 years ago. Until the start of the main renovation, as I said, activities will be carried out on an ongoing repair and maintenance basis to ensure and increase traffic safety. In May of this year and in June of this period, the patching of the pavement sections is envisaged. Maybe they've already started it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u43	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Krastev, do you have a line? Here you go, Mr. Bayram.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, we will continue to ask questions about all roads from Kardzhali District. Your answers are identical "normal," because you also said that the last repair was in 2006. And it is normal for your answers to be identical because the attitude of the governments since 2009, with the exception of the government of Plamen Oresharski, is identical. In short, it has nothing to do with people's problems. How did this question come about? At a meeting with fellow voters in the region in question, they said: for 20 years, for two decades we have no repairs, our main problem is this time and it is natural in several settlements there are also problems with water supply. They said to put this question before you because it is within your competence. But the inhabitants of the settlements will not be pleased with your response, because 2024 is a very distant horizon and this will make their existence very difficult to live. Just for the record, this is the only alternative route from Kardzhali through Momchilgrad to Krumovgrad. You probably know that between Momchilgrad and Krumovgrad along the main road very often there are landslide processes, there are landslides and this main road is closed, this time is the only alternative and 2024 is a late horizon. As MPs from the region, we insist that the main repairs be carried out within a shorter period. Let the government, the state take its place and solve this problem for the people. Yeah, one current renovation this year would be enough. Once again, 2024 will not satisfy the demands of the residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u45	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bajram, you are absolutely right that the policy of the so far government has been underestimated to third-class roads, hence to small towns, especially settlements in mountain areas, where we have virtually no other mode of transport than the one on the road. But let us make a big difference between the attitude of the current government, especially the team in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. For this year, we can only start major repairs to those sections of the road network for which we have inherited technological projects and for which we can declare a public contract for implementation. A contract for construction works on the road surface takes about six months. And let me make a difference now. We have 300 kilometers of basic repairs, which is how many miles away we have technical projects made by the previous government. In this year's API design program, which I have personally ordered and which I have announced more than once, is 2,600. Regardless of which minister will sit in my seat next year summer, he will have 2600 completed designs, probably and initiated procedures for the MRI. Why can't I say 2023 for the specific path you're asking me about? The procedure under the Public Procurement Act is about to take place, probably within two months we will be launching more than 400 orders and the API team is fully busy putting out instalments of orders. On the other hand, I'm only opening a clamp to tell you that there is no order for major repairs that has been announced by us and which has not been appealed. This automatically steams up all our hopes of repairing major road repairs this year. If you accept the approximate period of six months to prepare, announce, rank and sign a contract with a contractor for six months, we shall say from August to that month, we have six months to complete the design. For a major repair of at least two or three kilometers, I would even say three months is the minimum to be designed qualitatively, as it is filmed all the way, each nivelet is taken. You know how it is. It's been nine months. A few more months, let's put them in six months for a new procurement, that is, we will go to September next October, 2023, when at the earliest, if there is no appeal, we could start a major renovation. October and November can't start. Therefore, it is most likely calendarly to start spring, and if there are no such malicious delaying appeals. But I would like to stress the difference between 300 kilometers inherited and 2,600, which I will leave to the next government or myself, will be a huge 10 times. So the attitude is really tenfold different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u47	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. The next question is from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova concerning the Republican Road II-82 and the Republican Road I-8 city of Ihtiman... the town of Kostenets.. the village of Maritsa.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the existence of a good road structure is essential for the development of every region in the country. This especially applies to Sofia-district. In this regard, as early as 12 January 2022, with my written question, I asked you: which road sections do you plan to repair the territory of Sofia-district? You then replied to me that you are in the process of preparing and validating a Plan-Programme for the repair of sections of the Republican Road Network of I, II and III Class for the period 2022 and that the Programme is considered for inclusion and road sections located in the territory of Sofia district, of course this programme should be financed by the state budget. In addition, on 26 January 2022, a similar question from a fellow Member of the National Assembly is to be answered that, in the Programme of Fundamental Repair for 2022, a contract for the following sites is to be put forward and signed, I quote: 3 "Updating a technical project for major renovation of Republican road II-82 Kostenets "Samokov" Sofia from km 0+000 to km 86+100 with a total length of 86.100 km, and this road also includes this part of the road section, which is in my question to you. Also in this written reply, you say that there have been a lot of signals from citizens, mainly related to the road II-82 Sofia "Kostenets" - Lower Banya - Borovets, as it is in extremely miserable condition. Also in 2019, the government, I think, in September or early October, if memory serves, takes a decision of the Council of Ministers, which grants funds to strengthen landslides, as one of the landslides is precisely in the section of road II-82, in particular in the part of Raduil to Borovets. In this regard and in view of the urgent decision by which, in breach of all legal regulations, the National Assembly adopted to give the API the opportunity to take action to carry out repair and maintenance activities on the road network, I would like to ask you what repair activities have started along this road section? Has it started strengthening the landslides? When is it expected to start and what are the funds that are envisaged and laid down in the budget for this segment, and is it included in your basic repair plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you've veered representatives! Dear Mrs. Angelkova, in the program of the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" it is planned to announce in the second half of this year the public procurement to update the technical project for major repair of over 86 km, from road II-82 Kostenets. The development will be in line with the existing design standards, and for the entire route from km 0+000 to km 86+100 in the period 2015 - 2016 was made such a technical project. In view of the intense traffic and deformities on the pavement, as well as the past considerable period of time since its development After updating the development, public procurements will be announced for the selection of builder and construction supervision for the main repair of the second-class road. In view of the poor operating condition of the section and to ensure safe conditions for movement until the start of the main repair, an ongoing repair of 18 km The track in this section of road II-82 is characterized by a constant descent of ground and rock masses of the fragments and falls into an area of erosion processes. On the section at km 77+182 the Devil's Bridge, where the rock arches are drawn, on 22 December 2021 a review was carried out by representatives of the Regional Road Management In view of the geological risk identified, reinforcements are necessary to ensure the resistance of rock removal. For the sustainable strengthening and stabilisation of the affected area, a complete design solution is needed to comply with specific engineering and geological conditions. In view of this, with the update of the major repair project on road II-82, research and strengthening events will be envisaged for a comprehensive solution to the problem. Our emergency repair program of the Road Infrastructure Agency is included to implement the strengthening of 7 compromised sections of road II-82 in the section between Borovets Resort Complex and the village of Raduil. Perhaps you know the specific places, not to list the kilometers, such as for the preparation of technical projects and implementation of the construction works in the affected road there is a contract with the Automagistrals. As well as an additional agreement to this contract, which is an Agreement of 29 December 2020. For the sections there are presented design documentations at the first intermediate stage, alternative solutions and the same were adopted by the Expert Tech-Economic Council to the API. The sites were examined and adopted on 12 November 2020, and for one segment at km 25+400 was examined and adopted on 25 June 2021. For the first six sites, a project was needed to amend the cadastral map and the cadastral registers to correct a clear factual error. Following the entry into force of an order to amend the cadastral map and the cadastral registers, the second stage of design was initiated, namely the preparation of a technical project. At present are presented draft documentations of the second stage of the preliminary phase of the technical project and are expected to be reviewed by the API experts and then submitted for consideration and adoption by the Expert Technical and Economic Council. For object VII at km 25+4, which is mentioned, there is also a modification of a manifest factual error. A project has been prepared to amend the cadastral map and cadastral registers. He's returned to the contractor for correction. An open procedure under the Public Procurement Act for the designation of a consultant service is conducted for the sites from I to VI, this is the well-known supervisor. The tenders submitted were open on 26 June 2020. The Commission's work has been completed and a decision of the contracting authority is pending. For site VII, the necessary actions have been taken to launch a public contract for a consulting service. At the moment, tender documentation is being drawn up. In the investment program of the Agency, the road infrastructure is provided for a major repair of 58 km from the Republic road I-8 from the ring road of Sofia to the ring road of Ihtiman. It is planned to announce a public contract to update the existing project for major repair of the section. This is the route from the road node with highway "Trakiya" to the border with Pazardzhik district. The procedure is currently being prepared and is expected to be announced in June 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u51	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. You will be able to continue in the back, I gave you two minutes more, because it was a very comprehensive answer. Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Karadjov, we as MPs elected from every region in the country, and I, as MP from Sofia-district, will continue to ask what happens to every road section of the territory of Sofia-district. Thanks for the comprehensive answer, but it doesn't really make sense when construction and repair activities will actually start. So far, what you are saying is related only to preparing procedures. Obviously, those who were launched as preparations in 2020 have obvious factual errors, which further slows the process down. Please let me know when specific construction and repair activities will begin, especially in the section of Raduel village of Borovets, so that people can still be calm that there are not two more years to continue the documentary work on the project and the return from one institution to another before they actually start construction and repair activities on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u53	Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelkova, I will answer you very briefly. On the current repair and maintenance of this whole track, work begins immediately.. I even have photos that it is running and now, under current repair I say that it will be performed both patching as it is popular to be called on the track, and the destruction, the removal of the rock mass and the securing of the track with networks and other means to avoid further falling rock mass. This will happen in order to cover the time until the main repair, which we are mainly talking about in my response, and it will happen when the Law allows it, that is, after we have the technical projects and after making clear factual errors, and when, on the basis of these technical projects, a nearly 6-month procedure for the contractor of the construction work and the contractor of the consultant, i.e. the supervisory function, takes place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u55	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. National Representative Stoil Stoilov has a question about the need to rehabilitate the Republican roads, namely III 3402 Koilovtsi Please, Mr. Stoilov, ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! The state of parts of Republican roads in Pleven District, the third-class road "3402" and the third-class road "3501" is extremely poor and hinders the normal movement of residents in the district. During my passage along the route of the Airport, I found that the Kamenets section is in extremely poor condition with holes in the pavement and bumps from the many single patches. In talks with the residents of the municipality, I found that a third-class road was also located in the Pordim section of Valchitron to the border between the districts of Pleven and Lovech in very poor condition and has not been renovated in many years. The road is extremely important for several reasons: the village of Valchitrun is the largest village in the municipality of Pordim, there is located the united school of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov, which teaches children who travel from Pleven on the aforementioned road and the village of Valchitron is a village with tourist potential, for example, in relation to the found there Valchitrensko gold treasure. According to information from the API website, third-class road.. 3402 and third-class road.. 3501 are not included in the programme for the repair of the Republican roads for 2022. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the state of the above roads according to the API annual report? Why is there no major renovation of these sections in this year's programme? And in view of the signals about the state of the road, do you intend to include them in the API's major repair programme at a recent time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u57	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoilov, thank you for the three questions. I will try to respond to each and every one of them punctually what is the state of the roads according to the Yearbook of the Road Infrastructure Agency. The Republican Road III-3402 Grivica The Republican road in question is 32.6 km long and according to the API's annual report on 31 December 2021 it is 13.3 km from the third-class road is in good condition, 8.9 km is in average and 10.4 km is in poor condition. Why has there not been a major repair of these sections of the roads III-3402 and III-3501 in the API programme for 2022? The answer is clear because there are no for these two third-class sections in the previous years prepared a technical repair project, and without a technical repair project no procedure and a construction permit can be carried out and therefore no procedure under the Public Procurement Act for the implementation of construction activities can be carried out. Your third question is: do you plan to include them in the API's major repair programme at a recent time? Yes, we are predicting this in our new repair programme for the period 2023 " 2025" was proposed a repair of nearly 19 km from road III-3402, specifying the necessary activities for the road in relation to their current state. The section from the village of Koilovtsi to the town of Slavyanovo, with a length of 10 km, is included for an ongoing repair through ongoing maintenance and the section from the town of Pordim Road III-3501 is also set for repairs during this period, and the necessary activities are divided as follows: the section at the village of Grivica with a length of 3.2 km is intended for a current repair, and the section from the town of Pordim. The village of Oderne village of Kamenets, next to the border with the district of Lovech, with a length of 16 km, is intended for the award of a technical project and hence for major repairs. The stages ahead of the renovations are the development of projects, which is the first and compulsory step before the taking of quality construction works. The project will define the specific repair and reconstruction activities that need to be implemented, the estimated value of the construction works and their period of implementation. Once the design documentation is ready, the construction works can then be assigned. These are all the requirements of the Law. Until the start of the repair works on the two third-class roads in Pleven district will be implemented, including this year, activities in ongoing repair and maintenance to ensure and increase traffic safety. During this year it is planned to perform a patching of the asphalt pavement of both roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u59	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u60	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your comprehensive response and for your efforts to improve the condition of the road pavement in our area. Thank you for the efforts you have made to include them in the Program for Current Repair and Maintenance. Unfortunately, if you go on the spot, you will see that there are patch up to patch 20 years, there is a need for major repairs. As far as I understand from your answer, it is intended to be designed for major repairs, for which I thank you. My question to you is, if you can briefly explain what methodology prioritizes which roads to be designed for major repairs each year to make it clear to the citizens and residents of Pleven District which roads can be expected to be repaired forward in the years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u61	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Your question is an additional question as to ask, because it must require a thorough answer. Be brief, Mr. Karadjov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoilov, I will try very briefly to say without going into technical detail. When one time is in good condition or in very good condition, it means that there are distinct defects in its so-called wearing layer. When a road is repaired only on an wearing layer or on the next layer, which is called a bandager, that is, it is an intermediate layer between the crushed camouflage and rolled pavement and asphalt coating, then the Law says that it is possible to repair on an ongoing repair, which does not require complete construction documentation and does not require a building permit. In other words, such repairs, if assessed and started to be done, which is also a complex solution between how worn out it is and how dangerous the damage on one road can be done immediately, i.e. a very light technical design for technical repair is renewed this wearing layer. When it is already in medium or poor condition, it means that deep down the structures of the road are broken, that is, holes. You know that there are such holes, falls, tracks and so on, which require a deeper disruption of the road and its recovery to its normal levels. It is then required by the Law to complete the building documentation, complete the technical design and supervision of the technical design, after which the technical design submitted is issued the relevant building permit and the quantitative accounts make the complete cycle of the construction hall and again for supervision. When all the appeal deadlines are over, that's when the construction starts. If this coincides with winter, naturally, wait until spring. This is the fastest-packed knowledge on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u63	Thank you, Minister Karadjov. National Representative Nikolay Nankov has a question for you about the inefficient leadership of the "ViK" Ltd. Plovdiv. Here you go, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you, as the principal of the Bulgarian Water Holding and all water operators with more than 50% state participation in the capital, have an obligation to exercise control over their activities. In the last few months there have been publicly known facts and circumstances regarding the principles of management of Some of the examples are construction procurement, as well as unprofessional and ineffective operator management. The examples, which, I repeat, have become medialy famous in the last four months, one of them is the opaque spending of public funds by the What is scandalous in some cases is that there is data to spend public resources on an investment that must be carried out by a private investor. Secondly, we have a purchase of construction equipment with direct negotiation with only one candidate. Thirdly, buying new vehicles, Russian, stressing the Russian WAZ-KI, brand WAZ, again with a direct negotiation with only one participant. Several hundred thousand leva concerns the contract.. negotiations with only one candidate, as well as a number of other contracts concluded by direct negotiation. Since these and a number of other management decisions of the manager of the Board of Directors, Mr. Ognian Kulishev, continue for over half a year, I would like to ask you whether you approve of the management of the Managing Director of the Board of Directors of Plovdiv, and do you agree with the operational decisions taken by the management? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u65	Thank you, Mr. Nankov. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nankov, and I thank you for the three questions you have actually collected into one that you are asking me. With regard to the first question concerning spending of public funds by the "ViK" Ltd. of investments that were to be made by a private investor. You should keep in mind that we do not have any information about any of these, nor have such signals come to me before. However, if you do have more detailed information, please provide it to me and I will undertake to verify it and provide you with information on the actions taken. The second question, which contains several sub-questions, is also related to the purchase of construction equipment, I inform you of the following. The internal audit unit has just completed an audit check to assess and analyse the financial management of the Bulgarian Water Holding and to verify the procedures carried out under the Public Procurement Act. At the moment, the checks are over and I've been handed over the preliminary report. Secondly, regarding the allegations of procedures conducted by the "ViK" Ltd. for the purchase of construction equipment with direct negotiation, the chronology is as follows. On 16 February 2022 a public procurement notice was published in the Register of Public Procurement for a special car for the needs of water and water, i.e. a procedure under the Public Procurement Act was announced. Only one offer was submitted on the CEAS Public Procurement Platform. The committee appointed by the contracting authority on 9 March launched a review of the documents provided by the sole participant. In the course of his work, the subsidiary body of the contracting entity has requested additional information from the private entity and has set a deadline for granting the latter, but after the final specific date, no reply has been received from the tenderer. The aid authority then reported to the contracting authority and proposed that the procedure be terminated and the company manager issued a decision terminating the contract on 28 March. On 11 April 2022, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2016/849 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 11 April 2022 to 11 April 2022. 22, para. 1 of the company's management company has opened a procedure of direct negotiation in accordance with art. 182, para. 1, t. 2 of the special car for the needs of the special car for the use of the special car for the use of the special car for the use of the special car for the use of the special car for Plovdiv. The tenderer of the above-mentioned public competition has been invited for direct negotiation and the procedure has been carried out according to the conditions initially announced and the work of the Commission is reported to the contracting entity following the negotiations. On 13 May this year, the manager of the company issued a decision declaring the contractor of the contract. The offer of the designated contractor involved in the negotiations shows that the offered special car is a brand..Crup, model KMC 2025. On 25 May 2022, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 25 May 2022 to 25 May 2022. "Water and sewerage" Ltd has not signed a delivery contract since the selected contractor has not provided all the required documents required under the provisions of the Law on Forming between the Parties to the Bond Relations. Next. On 1 February 2022 another notice was published in the Public Procurement Register and in the Official Journal of the European Union of an open procedure with subject matter Only one offer was submitted to the CAIS EPP platform. A commission appointed by the contracting authority on 1 March 2022 began to examine the documents provided by the sole participant. In the course of its work, the subsidiary body of the contracting entity has identified inaccuracies/misses by the participant, which at the stage of the technical proposal for the execution of the contract cannot be removed, which is why it reports to the contracting entity and proposes that the procedure be terminated. On 29 March this year, the company's manager issued a decision terminating the contract. On 12 April, with a decision under art. 22, para. 1 of the company's management company launches a negotiated procedure without prior invitation to participate in the order of art. 138, para. Article 1 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of The tenderer of the above-mentioned terminated open procedure was invited to negotiate and the procedure was carried out in accordance with the conditions initially announced. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The date of 25 May 2022 at 10:00 is scheduled for negotiations. The contracting authority has not completed its work and has not reported to the manager of the company. For the third case, a replica.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u67	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Here you go, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. All of what you answered proved that the manager of the company Plovdiv, the first five months of this year, has concluded two contracts with direct negotiation. You know, the law allows, when there is only one participant present, the qualified participant, if he meets, of course, the requirements of the public procurement declared, he has tendered a due tender, as in the first case, not in the second, to complete the procedure and to be concluded after a decision of the Commission contract with him. Here we have two hypotheses to conclude a contract of direct negotiation without notice. Something that I am convinced of, my colleagues in the Change have specifically argued that this practice will be terminated in this term. We see that in a state-owned company, one hundred percent state capital, in the largest company in the water and water sector with state participation This practice is booming! Secondly, I will provide you with documents that you mentioned, currently media audience. I will also provide specific documents with which we will address competent authorities. By the way, it's clear that you will, too. Regarding the first question that you developed, you answered, you said that you had no information, namely that a company that builds a plumbing deviation and asphalts to its private site receives a prescription from the municipality of Plovdiv for the removal of defects and activities of their removal, are taken over and carried out by the "ViK" Ltd. Plovdiv with funds from the capital program of the VK operator, i.e. in the service of the private investor. Now I'm going to refer you to this case as well. Thank you again for your answer. I am convinced that you will take other action. I have information that, by the way, they were taken on yesterday, but that's another topic. I suppose you'll be the one to announce it in your asshole. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u69	Thank you, Mr. Nankov. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nankov, thank you for the transmission. Of course, we'll run a background check on him. However, what I would like to stress is that contracts on the two cases for which I have given information have not been concluded. In other words, there is no contract to date, and the only thing I can't answer is why the manager first conducted a normal competition procedure, and although he only appeared, he had the right to complete this procedure and to conclude a contract, then resorted to negotiations with one contractor. On the third question you are asking, I would also like to say that these procedures and a selected contractor to deliver 13 high-pass vehicles, the relevant model produced in 2022. There is also such a contract that is activated only if the first number of these cars is ordered. Such is not done, that is, we do not have an effectively concluded contract there, and these cars do not necessarily have to be purchased all of them. If one is ordered, if two are ordered, it will also be under the terms of the contract, the condition of the tender procedure will also be met. I mean, in all three cases, we still don't have effective contracts to date, I'd like to point out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u71	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Let's move on to the next question. Branimir Balachev on the establishment of an industrial zone in Varna region. Here you are, Mr. Balachev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u72	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I will try before I ask my question to motivate why, according to the residents not only of Varna and the district, but of the whole northeast the issue of the industrial zone, which is planned to take place in the territory of three municipalities of Varna region, namely Varna, Aksakovo and Devnya, is extremely important. By 1995 Varna and the region gave more than 32% of the industrial production of the Republic of Bulgaria. And with regard to the northeast other districts, this percentage exceeded more than 40%. As a result of poor privatisation since 1995, there is almost no industrial production in Varna at the moment. The same is the situation in other municipalities in the Northeast. This produced, in fact, on the initiative of the Mayor of Varna Ivan Portnich, in 2019 to make this association of these three municipalities and to find an appropriate territory of nearly 10,000 square meters, on which to build an industrial area, in view of the fact that land prices, i.e. on the terrains in Varna, are of extremely high value, which repels foreign investors and not only foreign investors, when implementing their high-tech processes. In this regard, in fact, Varna's budget in 2021 was set, as Varna's overall development plan is ready, more than 3 million were laid down. BGN, in order for this industrial zone to receive its initial financing, design, so that it can start as quickly as possible. However, it turned out that the Municipality of Aksakovo, the General Planning Plan, although in its final part, was not ready and given the fact that it is a Black Sea Municipality, this plan was required to be approved by the Specialized Council of the Ministry of Education and personally by you as a minister in the last six months. In this regard, as early as April last year, these documents were submitted to the Ministry, but according to my information and according to my colleagues there is no answer, and this problem is not being activated. My question to you is clear and specific: what prevents this project from being completed for a year, this approval being given by the Ministry, so that it can continue the implementation of this project, and is there, in view of its importance, do you not think that it should be of national importance, in view of the fact that it concerns not only the Varna region but the entire Northeastern region as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u73	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Please, Mr. Minister, give your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u74	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Balachev! There was no documentation in the MRDP, at least from the verification that we did in connection with your question and a project for the creation of a Northern Industrial Zone in the territory of the municipalities of Varna, Aksakovo and Devnya. However, with regard to the existence of general construction plans of the abovementioned municipalities, I can provide you with the following information: The Municipality of Varna has an active General Development Plan for the territory of the municipality, approved by order of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The municipality of Aksakovo is in a procedure for the preparation of common rules of procedure for the whole territory of the municipality. The project is designed by the municipality under the order of art. 19th para. 2 of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, based on a decision of the municipal council to award and finance the plan with funds from the municipal budget. The preliminary draft of a common design plan was reviewed and adopted by the National Expert Council on the structure of the territory and regional policy at a meeting, which was appointed by order of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. By letter the mayor of the municipality of Aksakovo submitted the final draft of a common planning and the verification of the documentation was established that the coordination procedures with all relevant central, territorial administrations and control bodies were not carried out in accordance with art. 127, para. Two of ZUT. Upon receipt of all opinions, the project will be submitted for consideration and adoption by the National Expert Council on a structure of the territory and regional policy with a view to approving it in accordance with art. 19th para. 3 of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act by order of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The Municipality of Devnya is in a procedure for the development of a common plan for the whole territory of the municipality, and the development of the project is also supported financially by the Ministry of Finance with the funds from the state budget. According to the information provided by the municipality of Devnya, a final draft of a common plan of the municipality of Devnya, which is in coordination procedure under art. 127, para. 2 of the Law on Construction in the Area, as a competent authority to approve the general plan of the municipality of Devnya is the municipal council according to the report of the mayor of the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u75	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Will you make a line, Mr. Balachev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u76	Madam President, colleagues. Mr. Minister, thank you for the information you gave me. If what you claim is true, this means that the problem that exists because, indeed, before the documents for the industrial zone are, Aksakovo's common development plan should come into force, and in fact the stumbling block in all this history according to your response should be sought in the municipality of Aksakovo. However, I did not hear specific dates so that I could accordingly take action at the local level and if there are guilty persons, to seek some responsibility accordingly. I will therefore ask you in writing to give me when these documents have been received so that I can respond adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u77	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Alexander Nestorov concerning problems with the movement between Sofia and Pernik district. Here you are, Mr. Nestorov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, disparity in economic standards and regional development in smaller settlements, as is the case with Pernik district, require many of its residents to seek livelihood on the labour market in Sofia. The movement of tens of thousands of citizens of the region of Pernik towards Sofia is extremely difficult due to excessive traffic. Moving in hours before and after work sometimes takes a significant amount of time for travelers, and during the summer season the problem becomes a full - time problem. Despite the implementation of a reversible traffic along the road artery 1-1 Sofia, Pernik and the existence of an alternative connection through the highway "Struma" which is also subject to intensive traffic, citizens are losing a serious part of their time traveling to and back from the workplace. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures do you intend to take to ease traffic between Pernik and Sofia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u79	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u80	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Nestorov, really with the construction of the highway of Lülin, now part of Struma Motorway, a large number of road vehicles moving along the Pernik direction, Sofia, have shifted to the motorway route. The heavy load movement over 12 tonnes is fully carried out along the highway, which eases traffic on road 1-1. The unit from the Republican Road 1-1 from the ring road Sofia to the border with Pernik district continues to be a preferred route by the residents of Pernik district as it makes the most direct connection with the capital. According to data from automatic traffic recording devices for average annual traffic intensity in the last five years, there has been no increase in traffic in the district of Knyazhevo to the road hub of Daskalovo. The share of passenger cars is about 90% of the total number of traffic passing, easing traffic in peak hours and festive days introduces the so-called reversible movement. It shall be carried out as follows: Division 1. Two lanes for moving in the direction of Sofia, each working day from 6:00 to 10:00 am. Last holiday day and every Sunday from 10:00 am to 19:00. The two lanes for movement in the direction of Sofia are set up from km 278+567 to km 282. Last holiday day and every Sunday from 10:00 to 7:00. Reversible movement improves transmission capability and helps not to create congestion during periods with increased traffic. In view of this, the Road Infrastructure Agency is also working on a project for the introduction of an electronically managed reverse movement, which will control and regulate traffic along the directions of Pernik Sofia, and Sofia. The project is currently being developed and after its final completion, acceptance and coordination it will be conducted for implementation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I would also like to add that, including the representatives of the civil NGOs who are in Knyazhevo, I have spoken to them in person twice because we have had to convince them that this reversible movement and these temporary measures are only temporary until the last missing part of the South Rainbow of the Sofia Ring Road, which will have a highway gauge and we hope that it will be able to take full traffic from Pernik, so as to relieve the tensions that are now needed by the princes. I only say that in addition. I point out that in recent years, in order to ensure safe and comfortable conditions for the movement of travelers, the Agency has carried out current repairs on the first-class route in both areas of Sofia and Pernik. In the long term, we also do not exclude the search for possible solutions to expand the existing route of route I-1 or to build a new one, through which a direct connection to the South Rainbow of the Crossroads of Sofia will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u81	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Mr. Nestorov, do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to point out that very often traffic jams happen to be at the same time the road Sofia "Vladaya," along the highway "Lulyn" which is already part of the highway "Struma" including the road through the village of Malo Buchino. It happens that these congestions, first of all, increase the levels of pollution. They also deprive citizens traveling this way of the time when they can create an additional product for our homeland. That is why my request to you is to move the projects that you have started in this direction, and also to think about extending the road I-1 Sofia "Vladaya." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u83	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. We move on to the next question from the MP Dimitar Nikolov about the supply and quality of drinking water in the village of Draganovo, Gorna Oryahovitsa municipality, Veliko Tarnovo district. Here you are, Mr. Nikolov, to develop your question. This is the last question to the Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and we continue with the questions to Mr. Atanas Atanasov, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u84	Dear Madam President, Vice Prime Minister, honourable Minister of Culture, I am pleased to see you in the control room as a member of the Committee on Culture! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my question is related to the problem of the supply and quality of drinking water in the village of Draganovo, one of the major constituent settlements in the municipality of Gorna Oryahovitsa and Veliko Tarnovo district. During the summer season, many households located in the high areas of the village are permanently left without drinking water for most of the day. Two years ago, in August 2020, as Chairman of the Municipal Council in the municipality of Gorna Oryahovitsa, I participated in the General Assembly of Draganovo, provoked by the supply and quality of drinking water. Even then, I committed myself to working to find a solution to the problem. There is no way I will be left unwitting to the words of a mother with children, who at the meeting addressed me: "No, you cannot understand me, Mr. Nikolov, with a small child, nearly 168 hours without water and in an environment. According to the water operator, water losses of more than 70% have been recorded in recent years. The municipality of Gorna Oryahovitsa, which is also the second largest partner in the water supply company, has developed an integrated work project for construction of PSOV, pressure sewerage and rehabilitation of a plumbing network in the respective settlement. In 2021, the municipality's management requested targeted funding of 1 million. $250,000. lv. for rehabilitation and reconstruction of the water supply network. I'm making it very clear that this problem hasn't happened since yesterday. During the last month, residents of the locality rose up against the appreciation of the water, given that in summer their taps dried up and did not receive quality of service. Dear Minister, what is the reason why the site is not included in the investment program of the water supply operator VIK "Yovkovtsi"? I suppose that a large part of the question marks would have been dropped if it had been convened, as requested by the mayors of the municipalities of the company, an extraordinary general meeting for the injection of the water and water in the water holding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u85	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u86	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Nikolov! Village of Draganovo is located in Gorna Oryahovitsa municipality and has a population of about 2500 inhabitants. The village is supplied by the dam "Yovkovtsi" and the water is purified in a water treatment plant for drinking water prior to its submission to consumers. So far, water supplies are sufficient and no water supply regime has been introduced in the village. The monitoring of the quality of drinking water provided for the population is carried out jointly by the Bulgarian Water Agency.Yovkovtsi................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No deviations were found in the performance of the monitoring on the quality indicators of the drinking water submitted for the village of Draganovo. The main reason for the disruption of water supply is the occurrence of accidents on the internal plumbing network of the village. The network was built in the 1950s and 1960s and is entirely asbestos-tipped, i.e. etherite tubes. The first quarter of 2022 has only nine so far, of which five are on building plumbing deviations, three on the internal network, and one on the water supply. The process of locating and removing the accidents is very difficult due to the characteristic soils of the area. The black and porosian sands and gravel below them, which is a prerequisite for complete drainage of the numerous hidden leaks and in some cases leads to an extension of the time of stopping the water supply. This mix of soils and etherite pipes for the water supply network leads to losses in the water supply system for Draganovo village at nearly 80%. In this respect, the operator has taken account and pressure control and regular monitoring of the network with specialised equipment, daily monitoring of the quantities of water submitted, the state of the village pressure tank and the counting of residual chlorine levels in the water. To get to the specific question what can be done to solve this case. Naturally, the plumbing installation of the village must be replaced, with a request from the municipality of Gorna Oryahovitsa as the owner of the public plumbing network of the village of Draganovo to provide 1 million funds. Eighty-five thousand. £472. for her reconstruction. The site is included in the list of sites that are possible to finance water projects during this year 2022. Unfortunately, we have requested additional documents for which no additional information has been submitted by Gorna Oryahovitsa municipality, namely the developed information about whether there is a permit for the construction of this plumbing, i.e. the replacement of the plumbing, or procedures under the Public Procurement Act have been launched for this to be chosen and concluded a contract with a contractor for the implementation of such an object. Without these props, it won't be possible to fund this object that you're asking us about. We are currently developing a regional research for the separate territory of the Operational Programme of the Operational Program of the Ministry of Environment and Waters and Waters and Waters under the Regional Investment Planning of the Sector of Water and Water and Water Sector Stage 2 and within the framework of the IP, as it is called, identify the sites that will be financed by the Operational Programme of the Ministry of Water and Water, which will be financed by the Operational Programme of the Ministry of Environment and from the state budget. In practice, we need to get further information from Gorna Oryahovitsa municipality so that we can assess whether they will receive funding this year to repair their plumbing from etheric pipes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u87	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. The line, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u88	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for your comprehensive and detailed response. I hope that the municipality of Gorna Oryahovitsa and its leadership and specialists will approach adequately, and for the residents of Draganovo this answer was very important that the problem is not neglected, and is addressed as a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u89	Thank you. This ended the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works. Mr. Karadjov, thank you for your participation. We move on to the questions addressed to the Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov. The first question is from the MP Tsveta Galunova on the emerging failure of the archaeological season in 2022. Here you are, Mrs. Galunova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I am pleased to see you today in parliamentary control, and I am also pleased to be able to finally get an answer to my question, which I introduced in March. It concerns the emerging failure of the archaeological season in 2022. It was introduced on 23 March. Dear Minister, every year the field archaeological studies are financed by the Bulgarian state through competitions, which are referred to as a "Procession for financing of projects for field research and field conservation." There are many conditions and requirements on these projects that have been partially changed every year, which is why they are slowly preparing. The session is announced so that the expeditions start at the beginning of the archaeological season, which begins at the end of May. In the complex procedure, the notice for the contest must be announced at least by mid-February. Thus, the application session with conservation and restoration projects was announced on 11 February, but for the studies a message never appeared. This, I repeat, is dated March 23rd. In the opinion of the scientists involved in this activity, the delay began as of early March. The field studies depend very much on the seasonal climate conditions and the availability of labour. There is a serious danger that the season will be ruined. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: who will be responsible for the emerging failure in the policy of your trusting Ministry towards the cultural heritage of the Bulgarians? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. Mr. Atanasov, please answer your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u92	Mrs. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mrs. Galunova! Each year, through the budget of the Ministry of Culture under the budget programme "Conservation of real estate cultural heritage" financial support is provided on a competitive basis for conducting field archaeological studies and field conservation. The project financing session for archaeological research projects is an important part of the strategic activities of the Ministry of Culture in the field of the country's heritage in the field of research, socialization and preservation of the country's archaeological heritage. With some delay in this year the session has already been announced on the website of the Ministry of Culture. The deadline for submitting funding projects expired on 26 April. An organisation has been set up to carry out the forthcoming administrative procedures for examining applications and allocating the budgetary resources envisaged for that purpose in accordance with the rules. By the end of June, the meeting of an interdepartmental committee with the task of evaluating and ranking the admitted projects is planned. The Ministry of Culture shall maintain a dialogue with the institutions concerned with the study and preservation of the country's archaeological heritage, which shall be informed in due time of the upcoming activities. According to this, I believe that conditions have been created to provide researchers and their teams with a period of field work within the months from August to October, including, and the long-standing professional experience of experts in the archaeological guild will further help compensate for the delay. As I said, archaeological research represents an important part of the strategic activities of the Ministry of Culture. The funding of archaeological research is under way and the projects will be able to be completed within the time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u93	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Do you have a line, Mrs. Galunova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. As I understand it, Mr. Atanasov, you justify the delay in the budget because you launched the competitions later, but in fact the announcement of the contests has nothing to do with the adoption of the budget. If one competition for conservation and restoration was announced before the adoption of the budget on 11 February, the other contest for field research was announced on 25 March. These contests should normally go together. I do not know for what reason they are divided, but since one contest can be announced before the adoption of the budget and the other can be announced after the adoption of the budget, it was evidently possible to announce these contests together before the adoption of the budget and to save the failure of the archaeological season. What is going to happen now as consequences is you said that between August and October archaeologists have to do their work, and this is not possible to happen or at least it is not possible to happen qualitatively because the season basically starts from June 1st and continues until September 30th. After that the weather conditions do not allow the continuation of archaeological research, that is, we shorten the seasons for archaeological research by two months and actually make it difficult for the organization to gather people, and we ask the archaeologists themselves to ask for a special permission afterwards to report to the Ministry with delay. As I understand it, no one takes responsibility for the failure of the archaeological season, but we simply justify the later adoption of the budget. At least that's my view, if I understand you correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. Will you do a duplicate, Mr. Atanasov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u96	I have not said that I am justified by the late adoption of the budget, nor that I am justified at all, and unlike you, I believe in our experts. I'm not predicting a failure of the archaeological season. I'm sorry you're so black-eyed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u97	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. We are going to ask the MP Lyubomir Karimanski about the violation of copyright and production rights in retranslation of films and the lack of opportunity in Bulgaria to apply the requirements of European Union law in the field. Here you are, Mr. Karimansky, to develop your question. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, at the beginning of the year I received a series of letters sent to you from several international associations protecting copyrights and related rights in which Bulgarian collective management organisations are members, and these are CISAC, SAA, AGICOA and also GESAC. These letters were also sent to the Chairs of the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Economic Policy in the National Assembly. They pose numerous issues related to the level of protection of copyrights and related rights in the country and to the opportunities that Directive 2019/789 and Directive 2019/790 offer to the Member States for achieving a balance in national copyright regimes. One of the main problems raised in some of them concerns the systematic violation of the rights of the authors of audiovisual in Bulgaria and the blatant violation of the copyright obligations of the European Union by Bulgarian users and competent authorities. It is pointed out that the organizations not for the first time put the topic before the Bulgarian authorities, but without success so far. Bulgarian and foreign audiovisual authors and producers have not been rewarded for years for handing over their works in the country. One of the biggest problems is the constant refusal of Bulgarian cable and satellite operators to pay the copyrights due to transfer foreign and local audiovisual works into their networks. These remunerations are recognised by European Union legislation, in particular Directive 9383 and Directive 2019/789 and international contracts signed by Bulgaria, such as the Berlin Convention or the Agreement known as the STO TRIPS. The European legal framework provides that they are to be managed by collective means. In Bulgaria, the only organization that represents the rights of authors and producers of films in handover is the filmmaker. It turns out that the association has not been able to collect remuneration for its members for years and for the carriers belonging to related foreign associations whose films have been transferred into the packages of cable and satellite operators. In the packages of cable and satellite operators, the representative organisation should also allocate such funds to so-called collective copyright management organisations. The Ministry of Culture is well aware of all the details and controversial issues concerning the application of the provisions of the Copyright and Related Rights Act, and in the part about the rights to transfer films, the Ministry of Culture is a control body regarding compliance with the Law. The Ministry of Culture is the institution that prepares a draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act aimed at transposing Directive 2019/789. It is certainly that a better legal framework would create a more favourable economic environment in the field of culture. In relation to the above, please answer me the following question. In relation to the problems related to the implementation of the rules on the transmission of audiovisual works as part of television programmes, what control measures has the Ministry of Culture taken since 2018? What is envisaged in the draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act on overcoming current deficits which prevent the functioning of compulsory collective management of rights in this area, including whether international experience has been studied, including Member States that have already transposed the directive, and if so, which legal models have been adopted? If the Ministry of Culture has carried out checks on the regulated rights of films to be transferred by forwarding companies, how many of them are these checks, how many of them are on the signals of "Filmautor', how many of them are at the initiative of the Ministry and how many of them have ended with a penalty imposed on forwarding operators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u99	Thank you, Mr. Karimanski, for more than two minutes of the time allowed. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u100	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Karimanski, I cannot disagree with you that a better legal framework would create a more favourable economic environment in the field of culture. It is important that the legislative texts do not allow for a coup d'état interpretation, but to provide a clear and non-controversial framework in which to implement the relevant trade relations. The draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Copyright and Related Rights Act prepared in the Ministry of Culture adheres to the legal framework laid down in Directive 2019/789. In the course of the legislative procedure, the Members of the National Assembly will have the opportunity to assess the proposed changes on their own. The mandatory collective management of transmission is derived from the European directives and is important for the functioning of the market. An important point is that the draft for amendment and supplement of the Copyright and Related Rights Act for the first time defines the concept of "translation." This is also essential in order to avoid disputes about which programs are transmitted and which are transferred when it becomes part of the cable or satellite operator's package. As regards the possibility of choosing national decisions to step on international experience during the work of the Working Groups on the Draft, the process of transposition of directives in almost all member states has not been advanced even to a stage of published projects and this has been found by the European Commission. At the same time, waiting for legislative decisions in other Member States would also have led to a significant delay in us. Given that harmonisation takes place in parallel throughout the European Union, this was not appropriate. Moreover, even if we were aware of the legislative proposals in individual Member States, we could not have known on the basis of what analysis and expectations they were made, nor would they have been supported by the legislative authorities of those Member States. In relation to the part of your question concerning the checks carried out by the Ministry of Culture, a total of nine checks on platform operators have been carried out in the last four years on an alert from At present, three of the administrative and criminal proceedings have been prosecuted and confirmed at first instance. We expect with interest the ruling of the court in relation to all the sanctions under appeal. As regards the possibility to carry out the checks on self-examination of the administrative authority, it should be borne in mind that due to the specific nature of the settlement of the rights, the collective management organisation is the only one able to duly identify the works of its repertoire, and the proof of the unauthorised retranslation of works implies that it be demonstrated in relation to a particular work. It is precisely in this regard that without direct coordination between the administrative authority and the CSM, such as the "Filmautor" Association, violators can hardly be sanctioned. Apart from the problems described by you, I would like to pay particular attention to another serious problem for which we are looking for a solution, and this is the problem with negotiating the tariffs from the CUP. This is undoubtedly one of the deficits in the legal framework and is a disadvantage of the practice which directly affects the inability to collect remuneration for the transmission of films and other audiovisual works. You, Mr. Karimanski, are well aware of the procedure provided for in the Law for the negotiation of the CUP tariffs due to your personal participation in 2020 as a representative of the Association of Philmautor in the negotiations on the tariff for the transfer of audiovisual works. Each tariff shall be fixed in the course of negotiations between the relevant collective management organisations or CSTs and a representative organisation of users, if any. It is a matter of negotiations which are of a commercial nature and in which the State does not participate. It is a duty of the OCS to offer tariffs for the relevant type of use to be discussed with the relevant representative user organisation. In case the negotiations end without a result, the Law provides for the validation of the tariff to take place on the basis of a decision of a committee appointed by the Minister of Culture. The commission's task is to examine the draft tariff and to adopt a decision on the final version. The law also provided for a hypothesis in which the Commission does not decide on validating the tariff, in which case the Minister of Culture terminates the tariff validation procedure. This, unfortunately, also happened to the Commission dealing with the project of the "Filmautor" tariff. The practice accumulated so far shows that none of the committees appointed over the years has been able to offer a tariff to be validated. In an attempt to identify the deficits and the reasons behind them, the Ministry of Culture initiated expert consultations with the CSU, with representative user organisations, as well as with the experts listed on the mediators' list. Common meetings with stakeholders are to be held in order to improve the legal framework and create a successful and working mechanism for validating tariffs for collective management organisations. I believe that it is wrong in the law to maintain regulation which has proved its inability and which, despite the efforts made, does not produce practical results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u101	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor for further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I'd rather make a brief comment. I'm not gonna have any further questions so I don't have to spend any more time, because I've been running out of time anyway. First of all, we've had a handover since 1998. It's not true that the new directive introduces a handover. Secondly, I cannot accept the fact that the Ministry of Culture has not so far exercised its role in control, as everything that is done under this control, and what the Minister is quoting, is an initiative by. We either defend the authors of all those works, audiovisual works and their handover, and as the Ministry of Culture, we make sure that these authors get what they deserve. Because if we want to develop our relations with all partners in relation to audiovisual works and transmission, it is important that they really have protection from a state institution and that it performs its role of control at all times. It is not only in the directive, especially how the latter Directive will be transposed, because, once again, this problem has stood since 1998. In the last 10 years we have gathered zero leva compared to all the countries of the European Union. Can we not compare ourselves with Croatia, Romania and the other countries, provided that we can apply the same criterion as the purchasing power component, for example, to see if there is a separation of such funds in the other countries and whether Bulgaria has so far allocated funds to the authors. Again, the information of the Audio Observatory in Europe is that for the authors Bulgaria is with zero leva collected funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u103	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Mr. Minister, do you want the floor? Here you are, you have an opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u104	Mr. Karimansky, I personally agree that the state must take care of its authors. My answer contained that, in the Ministry of Justice, and I would read it again, proving the unauthorized handover of works, suggests that one should be proved in relation to a particular work and that it is in this connection, without direct coordination between the administrative authority and the CSO, as is the Association of Philmautor, intruders can hardly be sanctioned, that is to say, as the Ministry of Culture cannot play police. This requires a huge resource to scan absolutely every television, look for a work and then check whether it exists in your register or not. As I told you, every time a filmmaker made a signal, we covered it. At the moment there are even cases going on about this thing, so we will still see if there will be a collection of funds for the Bulgarian authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u105	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Karimansky, for the final treatment, if you like, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u106	I'd like to finally say that the control initiative doesn't mean being the police, first of all, and nobody here is playing police. Secondly, let's be precise, I am not representing here, I do not know why the minister is implying such a thing and suggesting, I think I am a MP, and that 2020 I have been a consultant to "Filmautor" only can be a plus for authors and for all those who create audiovisual products and are proud of the audiovisual products created.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u107	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Lyuben Lyubenov Dilov and from the National Representative Toma Lyubomirov Bikov on the Target Programme for co-financing of projects under the Creative Europe. Mr. Bikov, come in. You have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u108	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! It is a joint matter with colleague Lyuben Dilov, who was written by him. I won't be able to recreate it the way he would most likely, but I'll ask it anyway. Dear Minister, the Target Programme for the National Co-financing of Projects from "Creative Europe" has launched piloted in 2020. In the year 2021, it had a budget of 500 thousand. lv. In 2022, the scope of the Programme expands with three more directions, which is a great step towards the integration of international activities. European cooperation, networks and platforms are already within its scope, in addition to the..................................................................................... However, inconclusive is the fact of the dramatically reduced budget of the 2022 Programme, which is 200,000. lv. Is there an analysis in your ministry how many organizations manage projects from the Creative Europe and what co-financing will be needed to cover the scope of their activities for 2022? Does it take into account the fact that a large part of the activities for 2021, due to a form of restrictions across Europe, have been postponed to implement in 2022? Can this budget so reduced cover the co-financing of all cultural organisations in all four directions? Do you have data on how many and what are the current projects within the framework of Creative Europe, which are in partnership with Bulgarian organizations? Do you see in the forthcoming state budget update what funds you will want to continue co-financing under the Creative Europe programmes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u109	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u110	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Bikov, Dear Mr. Dilov, really the budget for 2021 of the Target Programme for National co-financing of projects from the Creative Europe Programme of the European Commission amounted to 500 thousand. lv. However, only 175 thousand were actually used. 451 BGN, distributed between 12 projects. The resources for 2022 are planned on the basis of the funds actually spent in 2021 as well as the information available on the website of the European Commission for Bulgarian cultural operators who have approved projects and concluded a contract with the European Commission. At present, six eligible projects have submitted documents under this target programme with signed contracts with the European Commission, with a total amount of 302 thousand requested. 851 lv. All of them will be able to be financed because of the 200 grand. lv. Another 120 thousand will be added. lv. from unrealized projects and returned funds from previous years precisely under the Creative Europe Programme. In addition, at its meeting on 4 May 2022, the Governing Council of the National Fund The final decision on this issue was left for the next Governing Council meeting so that further information on the number of approved projects by the European Commission and their budgets could be collected by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u111	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a line, Mr. Bikov? You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u112	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! As I understand it, you say there will be no problems in financing all the projects that deserve to be financed. We will continue to monitor this process and I hope it will indeed be so. What you said may partly answer our question, but we still have to see and ultimately what will happen. I hope everyone has the opportunity to be financed if they deserve, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u113	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Would you like a hole, Mr. Secretary? No. The next question is on the composition and policy of the Board of Directors of the National Fund...................................................................................................................... You have the floor, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u114	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Again a joint question with our prominent publicist and satiric Mr. Dilov. At the beginning of the year, Mr. Minister, you requested the resignations of the Board of Directors of the National Fund of Culture and requested that the new Board of Directors will be selected in clear, concrete and transparent criteria ensuring representativeness of all spheres of culture. However, part of the members of the Governing Council refused to resign, and on 30 March 2022 the composition of the Governing Council of the NFC was supplemented in an absolutely unclear way for society and for professional communities in the field of culture. According to the order in this Chamber, representatives of the music sector and academic institutions in the field of culture are missing from the Board of Directors of the NFC. How will you ensure that the music sector in Bulgaria will receive protection, expert assessment and representativeness in an already difficult period related to inflation, the consequences of the crisis and the continuing war in Ukraine? We are concerned that there is no working mechanism for ensuring continuity between academic institutions and education in the field of arts and cultural processes without a representative of education in the NFC. In this regard, we would like to hear your views on the overall development of the Fund and against the backdrop of the new challenges facing sectoral policies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u115	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. For your answer, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u116	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Bikov, Dear Mr. Dilov, according to the Law on Protection and Development of Culture in the Management Board of the National Fund................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The other members shall be appointed on a proposal from creative thinking organisations, academic institutions in the field of culture, non-profit organisations in the field of culture and cultural activists. Those provisions of the law were also complied with in the appointment of the new members of the Management Board of the National Fund. The law does not specify an explicit obligation to have representatives of all sectors in the field of culture and of all academic institutions in the field of culture, which is actually also impossible, given that there are seven places to be filled. However, it is important to note that there is a member in this Chamber of the Management Board who is a lecturer at the National Academy of Art. In addition, I stress that the NFC has excellent interaction with academic institutions in the field of culture. An example of this is for the first time the announced session for support of students in the field of arts. Regarding your question: how will the music sector receive protection, expert evaluation and representation? Please note that the expert evaluation is carried out by the expert committees of the National Fund. More than 10% of the members of the current expert committees are music experts, which, in turn, guarantees that the music sector will receive the necessary expert evaluation and quality support. I note that for the first time in the 20-year history of the Fund this year an open campaign for recruitment of experts was organized, which included 280 people. An invitation to participate in the expert committees was also addressed to all 215 experts who have evaluated so far in sessions of the National Fund of Culture. As a result, nearly 70 experts were selected, of which 40 will be evaluated for the first time in the programmes of the National Fund. This procedure ensures the renewal of the expert composition, but also observes continuity in the committees. Regarding your question about the Draft Amendment to Regulation No H-5 on the terms and conditions for holding competitions for the provision of funds from the National Fund............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The amended Regulation retains all the functions of the Management Board, including the announcement of the terms of the competitions, the designation of the members of the expert committees, the approval of the financing projects and so on. At the same time, amendments to the Ordinance include much better written rules for conflict of interest, dropping the possibility of granting funds without competition, introducing a technical committee and the possibility for applicants to correct technical deficiencies in their documentation within a specified time limit. All the amendments listed greatly improve the activities of the National Fund of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u118	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I hope that your answer will calm down people in the field of art rather than us with Mr. Dilov, because we will obviously not apply for projects in the Fund of Culture. With regard to the Fund. Rather, as a complement to the question that we have asked or rather as a call for you, we hope that we will see the concept of the development of the Culture Fund, which seems to play a major role in the area of culture in terms of both the Recovery Plan and the opportunities that this Fund gives, which, unfortunately, over the years I am not only talking about you, but in general, are not used enough. Note that this fund could develop to the extent that it could be the main cultural unit through which the entire cultural policy of the country goes, payments and so on. For this purpose, however, much higher administrative capacity is required, and in my opinion a completely different concept, because you know that this fund distributed around 600,000. lv. a year, and he's likely to distribute about 70 million of the Recovery Plan. I draw your attention to this topic because it also requires legislative changes, requires structural changes in the Fund, also requires a very serious and rapid, I stress, an investment in the Fund, not only in terms of who will be in the committee and what representation will be, but in general very serious administrative work. In my opinion, this work, at least with regard to the concept, is over, is over. So we hope to have some changes in the Law on Cultural Development soon and to see that it is working on purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u119	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u120	I am very pleased Mr. Bikov that you described such a clear and actually true picture of the Fund. She's been very clear to us from the beginning. This is also one of the main battles that even I personally took from the very beginning when I entered the Ministry of Culture, and therefore already, as I stressed, there are changes that we see for the first time in the Fund, and that is why we continue to work hard, as well as on possible changes to the Law on Protection and Development of Culture. So I am glad that we are all aware that the deadlines are short, that we need help there, and that this is being worked hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u121	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question for you today. Thank you for participating in Parliamentary control. We are going with questions to the Minister of Tourism Mr. Hristo Prodanov. The first question is from the MPs Neby Kabak and Mumyun Mumyun regarding forecasts and challenges to the summer tourist season in 2022. Here you are, Mr. Mumeun, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the question actually concerns the summer tourist season, but perhaps, if it is to be summarized, is: where is the role of the state, what does the state have to do or what to do in order to have a successful season, whether it be summer or winter? If we look back in the years in Bulgaria with these resources that we have, the business has invested very serious money, many millions in the creation of bases such as large hotels, restaurants or whatever on our Black Sea coast. I dare say that the municipalities on the Black Sea are doing a pretty good job because they have been waiting all year for these seasons, preparing well and reporting good activities to me. Looking back at the years, I can't say that the state wasn't doing its job. I can report, naturally, good years and bad years, I can also tell you the details of these good years and bad years, but given the recent challenges with the Kovid pandemic in the last two years, and now that the issue with the coffin has passed, or at least in the summer months has not been a leading topic, there is the military conflict, which is also some prerequisite for more unexpected or not to say worse, but I think this is the word, season. From this point of view, where is the role of the state? I would like to read the question, Minister: The tourist sector in Bulgaria is facing serious challenges for the upcoming summer season. Tourism is one of the most important sectors for the Bulgarian economy and one of the most affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and the military conflict in Ukraine. In view of this, the tourism industry has serious concerns, which need adequate measures to restore the sector at least at 2019 levels In this regard, our question to you is as follows: what measures are laid down in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan in relation to the "Tourism" sector? What is the effect of the outbreak of the military conflict in Ukraine on the upcoming summer tourist season? What action has the Ministry of Tourism taken to attract more tourists and to advertise Bulgarian destinations on foreign markets after the expected tide of Russian and Ukrainian tourists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u123	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. Here you are, Mr. Minister for Answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kabak and Mr. Mummyun, I fully agree with you and with the findings you have raised in your question. Indeed, the tourism sector has been most affected by the crown crisis and its development in the past two years. Undoubtedly, the war in Ukraine will also have a negative impact on the development of the tourist season, directly and indirectly. Directly because for explainable reasons, we cannot expect tourists from Russia and Ukraine, who until last year visited the Bulgarian Black Sea coast and were leading, by the way. The point is that in some countries Bulgaria is presented as an uncertain area in relation to its proximity to military action. In this regard, we are taking everything possible so that we can really convince our guests, our friends from other countries that Bulgaria is a safe and peaceful destination, that the Bulgarian Black Sea coast will be ensured so that they can have a good and pleasant holiday. To your question, what did we do? We have also changed, redirected the funds that were provided for Russia and Ukraine in relation to advertising on the external markets. I propose, since I have a next question in which there is once again a question about advertising and not to repeat myself, then specifically to announce and exactly what measures we have taken as a ministry. The role of the state. The role of the state is precisely to create security, to create good conditions for business, to create the right information because, unfortunately, we have many false news regarding the security of the Bulgarian Black Sea coast. All this we have undertaken and worked hard so that we can convince our expected guests of what is the truth about Bulgaria, about Bulgarian tourism, about the Bulgarian Black Sea coast. Regarding the question of the Recovery Plan. You know that it is already structured in 2020 on the basis of certain industries, there are no specific lists of economics, neither energy nor tourism, but is focused on specific topics and the implementation of relevant reforms on these topics. In this regard, the place of tourism in the Recovery and Development Plan can be both in the sector with renovation and renovation of the housing fund, as well as in the sector
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u125	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Kabak, for your supplementary questions, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! It is important for us from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and even in opposition to work in sync with the legislative power, with the executive power and with the tourism industry, so that we can solve the problems of the industry together and create a tourist product that is good and competitive. It is extremely disturbing that in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan there are no specific funds foreseen for the sector "Tourism" which is indeed the most affected sector of the CIVID-19 pandemic. In recent days, we have seen that one of our direct competitors, Greece, has targeted 1 billion. EUR for support of the sector "Tourism" which makes it even more competitive and creates prerequisites even Bulgarian tourists to prefer the Greek resorts to the Bulgarian resorts. In this order of thought, Mr. Minister, is it a good idea for you to completely cancel the fees for umbrellas and sunbeds from the concession obligations due to the contracts? My other question to you is about the voucher system: do you support the issuance of vouchers by analogue with food vouchers? And, of course, not least in the forthcoming budget update you, as Minister of Tourism, will you appeal to an increase in the advertising budget, which, according to preliminary forecasts and estimates, should be about 100 million? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Kabak. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kabak, I will start answering the questions raised backwards. First, the increase in advertising funds. Of course, I have always been about increasing the means of advertising for tourism, because tourism is a sector of high added value. In other words, he brings a lot of money, a lot of income for the Bulgarian treasury and deserves much more than what he gets. By the way, in the last year the advertising budget was increased by 6 million and this is thanks to the Ministry of Tourism and the Bulgarian Government. So the Bulgarian government appreciates the dignity of what tourism brings to Bulgaria. We will really try to make it even better appreciated and even better funded. Your second question was about the vouchers and the voucher system. You may not be aware of this, but in the last five years I have been a Member of the National Assembly for opposition, every year when the state budget is adopted we of the BSP the party I represent have suggested that vouchers, which are for food, apply also for rest and give people the right to choose whether they can use their vouchers for food or for rest. So, yes, we support, and I personally support this idea completely and we will propose it again. About the umbrella fees, it was the first question. The fees for umbrellas are a matter of decision of concessionaires. They have minimum prices and maximum prices at which umbrellas and sunbeds can give, so this is their assessment. My opinion is that they have seen the effect of selling at affordable prices so that they can really be full and not sell at space prices and be empty. So in this regard, this is the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u129	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For expression of attitude, please, Mr. Mumeun.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, a few things you've touched on. In fact, one of the topics about the role of the state, you said that we should do everything possible to limit the so-called and quite modern fake news lately. I don't know how fake they are, but when foreign media announce and whistle that they're swimming on the Black Sea, it's natural for tourists to worry and look somewhere else instead of the Black Sea. But I sense it's a theme for you, so you'll try to keep people well informed who want to rest here on our Black Sea coast. I also have information that somewhere a month ago, planes that are definitely not passengers have flown over the beaches, which also creates discomfort. I don't know if that's exactly where they're supposed to be patrolling, it's not your department's topic, but in the end, it affects the comfort of tourists. Generally speaking, investors or businesses, even with gold, will build hotels if the state is not there and does not make the right advertising, that is, did not provide the right product or explain the beauty of our Black Sea coast, there will be no tourists, and all these thousands of companies operating on the Black Sea coast, from the big hotels to the bathrooms, waiting for people, waiting for tourists. And back in the years I can say that good times for Bulgarian tourism was when there were more tourists than Scandinavian countries, from England, from Germany. This year it feels like there are Englishmen. I don't know if you've stressed the ad in England, but if you have, it's working for this thing. But let's also look at the others on those sides I'm saying. So in general I will say the Bulgarian economy expects a lot of tourism, so a lot of work awaits you. Taking into account the challenges of the Kobe and War, it is not easy for you to do your job. I'll wish you luck. [[Reply from DPS: "The time is over! "]] Is it running out, Mr. Ahmedov? I'll wish you luck. As the colleague said, what the legislators need to do, and the Ministry anyway, the municipalities and the business are trying to do in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u131	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. Mr. Minister, you have no right to take an attitude. The final word is on the questioner. I thank my colleagues at the DPS for helping me carry out my duties. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the MP Nikolina Angelkova on Bulgaria's marketing advertising strategy as a destination for summer tourism. You have the floor, Mrs. Angelkova, to present your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! As well as asking the previous colleagues, it became clear that tourism, and it is clear to everyone, is one of the most affected sectors of the CoVID-19 pandemic, and now with the war in Ukraine, the consequences for it can indeed be disastrous if timely measures are not taken. Key to have a successful summer tourist season is to have well planned marketing and advertising activities so that we can present Bulgaria as a preferred tourist destination on the international markets. Yesterday in your statements to the Bulgarian media, you said that you launched an advertising campaign on 25 international tourist markets, which are important for Bulgaria. In my written questions to you concerning public procurement in the Ministry of Tourism, it is clear from your answers that from 13 December to 19 April, for which I have asked the question, there is no open public procurement, there are only public contracts conducted directly under the exceptions of the law, under the exceptions of the Law on Radio and Television, i.e. with direct negotiation. These are 13 conducted, rather directly awarded public contracts, I will not list them at the moment, with television stations. And also there are again directly negotiated two orders that concern the Bulgarian-German Chamber of Commerce, which is good because the tradition of promoting balneo- and spaturism is continuing. How exactly and with what activities do you plan to implement these marketing companies on these 25 markets? Is it just a direct negotiation with TV stations again? How exactly are you going to choose these televisions, is there a methodology, what are the expected results, so... Because you are aware that if an advertising video is broadcast on television, it does not necessarily mean that everyone who has seen it will choose Bulgaria as a place for their vacation and holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u134	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelkova, first of all, to reassure you, we have taken all measures, so the season will not be disastrous, the season will be relatively good. The other thing I welcome is that you're following public procurement. I see that you understand public procurement, and in this regard I think you should be aware that if there was a big public procurement, there was no way to fit into the summer season. And that is why you rightly find that, on the basis of the exceptions given by the Law, we did first the advertising strategy and campaign for the summer season, because you know that the budget of the Ministry of Tourism and the budget of the state was adopted at the end of February. So with all the legal and possible means at our disposal, we have made it possible to really launch an adequate campaign, which, as far as possible, to help make the summer season better and more foreign tourists visit Bulgaria. Dear Mrs. Angelkova, dear Mr. Mummyun, dear Mrs. Kabak! As you have asked me about the question, in particular, I will tell you what are the events we foresee, which we are doing or which we have already done. First, television advertising in 25 countries, as I said yesterday and as I say again today. Bonuses in their digital platforms, and really serious bonuses, because for us really digital advertising is also leading and important. For Romanian television, we had an additional bonus for some famous Bulgarian in a lifestyle show to do an interview and invite Romanian citizens to visit Bulgaria. I thank Hristo Stoichkov for helping us for free to do this because he is a familiar face in Romania, there are named stadiums on it. He is a man and a person who is respected not only in Romania but all over the world. I have an interview on the bonus line of the contracts, and I have an interview in RTL, which is being broadcast in Germany and Austria, and it will be again focused on telling the truth to the German and Austrian tourists, and it is that Bulgaria is a safe and peaceful destination. By the way, Mr. Mumeun, I've heard from you about the information that planes have flown, and I've never heard that before. I had only heard from Turkish fishermen that there were mines somewhere in the Black Sea, only that no other official state institution has seen it, only Turkish fishermen have seen them. So this is also false news, and we are trying precisely to disprove these false news. Expedient tours currently taking place or coming next week, with bloggers, bloggers, inflationers and journalists from Serbia, Romania, Poland, northern Macedonia and a little later than Germany. This is at the request of the German side.. to be a little later. I dare say that we have indeed made a very fruitful visit to Poland, we have met with the Polish tourism business. The meeting was attended by representatives of the business of Poland and Bulgaria. We held an official meeting with the Secretary of State, there we also called on Polish citizens to visit the Bulgarian Black Sea coast. There is a reciprocal visit of the Secretary of State Mr. Gut-Mostov, in Bulgaria, which will happen next week. These days I will be visiting Germany, where we will have meetings in the Bundestag and with the local major tour operators. The joint initiative that you said and noticed with the Bulgarian-German Industrial Chamber. We visited Serbia, there we also had extremely important meetings, both domestic and ministerial level. A visit is coming to Hungary. Again, in the same way, we will take this extremely seriously, because we also have great potential in Hungary. And there is a big event ahead in connection with the 65th anniversary of the resort - Golden Sands - in which together with the Foreign Ministry we will invite the entire diplomatic corps, that is, the ambassadors of all countries, to visit our Black Sea coast, to see for themselves for the security we have secured and to invite their peoples and tourists to visit Bulgaria accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u135	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. All of us who are working in the sector of "Tourism" want to have a successful summer tourist season, and not only the summer season 2022, but also the upcoming winter and summer season 2023, which, by the way, is already being prepared and negotiated for it, as you well know. I would like to ask you in detail what are these 25 markets where Bulgaria will be advertised, what is the budget provided for this television advertising for each of the markets and what are the expected results of this communication campaign? I mean, how many tourists do you roughly, because I know you can't tell me and it's not right at the moment specifically, and there is no way, but what is the goal you have set with this advertisement, especially for the main markets such as Germany, England, Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary, you say the key tourist markets for Bulgaria, which are in the top 10? What, besides these additional bonuses that are included in the advertising with television, do you plan to launch an open procurement for integrated communication campaigns by the end of the year, which is based on a comprehensive analysis of the expectations and demand of tourists coming from the target markets, tourism, for Bulgaria, which an integrated communication campaign not only covers television advertising, and including other marketing means to advertise Bulgaria as a preferred tourist destination? Thank you and wish you good luck on the upcoming summer season.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Mr. Minister, if you'd like to come in and have a look at the back of your head, the line was, by its own nature, asking additional questions. If you have an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u138	I know, Mr. Chairman, it was true, but Mrs. Angelkova does these things. However, I will respond to everything I do not worry about. Mrs. Angelkova, you are absolutely right about the way you should approach yourself, and we are going this way. First of all, we need to audit the destination so that we can then make a product that we are all satisfied with. In this regard, we have already addressed the German company AVIarePS to prepare an audit of the destination, and based on this audit, naturally, we will announce a large public procurement in general for Bulgaria's advertising strategy. So we will do this and follow the path that we have drawn in the Coalition Agreement to walk it, but the truth is that we must abide by all the deadlines that are set out in the Law. The other question was: on which markets has the TV campaign already started? With National Geographic Channel in the UK, the Netherlands, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Hungary, Latvia, Czech Republic, France, Estonia, 24 Kitchen In general, this is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And the last question to you, which is from the MP Slavena Tocheva, is about the lodged Ukrainian refugees. Here you go, Mrs. Tocheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u140	Thank you. Dear Minister, the National Crisis Headquarters has announced that the accommodated Ukrainian refugees should leave the hotels they are staying in until 30 May, until the 40 levs will be paid to the hoteliers. Where will these people be accommodated afterwards and what will happen to hotel reservations that await the first registered tourists if the Ministry of Tourism does not indicate enough accommodation? Many questions arise as a result of your decisions. You have now announced that you will fill the entire state bed base, that is, it will not be able to be used by the civil servants who have declared a wish. Another question is: how will Ukrainian refugees be taken out who refuse to leave the hotels where they are accommodated? And what you said that the 40 levs fell to 15, do you think the hoteliers agree with this and are they sufficient to cover the costs of accommodation and food for Ukrainian refugees?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Tocheva. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u142	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tocheva, you are obviously not very familiar with the process of dealing with refugees and overcoming the refugee crisis, so I will explain exactly what the commitments of the Ministry of Tourism are. The Ministry of Tourism is responsible only for paying with the hoteliers under the programme, which was accepted from 24 February to 31 March and for nothing else. Anything else that concerns the issue of the refugee crisis is managed and taken as a decision by the National Headquarters for Refugees, specially designed to manage this crisis. In this regard, what is as a commitment of the Ministry of Tourism. We paid the first aid, which concerned the period from 24 February to 31 March. We already have the done calculations here we slowed down a little bit, because in April it was a peak and there were a lot more refugees, but we are already done with these calculations. The intention is to pay off the hoteliers on Monday or Tuesday at the latest for the period from 1 to 31 April, then from 1 to 5 June, hoteliers who have accepted refugees and in May, to apply for their money in the system, after which the Ministry of Tourism to check and calculate these aids and to pay for the last period during which this programme took effect, i.e. from 1 to 31 March. What is the commitment of the Ministry of Tourism. Other decisions the Ministry of Tourism on the issue of refugees does not take.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u143	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a line? You have the floor, Mrs. Tocheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u144	Minister, what will be the commitment of the Ministry of Tourism after the end of June, because all calculations show that the funds will be sufficient by the end of June? What did you see as measures after that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Tocheva. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u146	I, to be honest, I don't know about that kind of calculation. Once the state makes a commitment, it will fulfill it. So what we have adopted as a decision of the Council of Ministers, we carry it out without question until 31 May. Then again there will be money that will be paid accordingly on this line, and I want to be aware that these funds will be under the European programmes, so that the Bulgarian taxpayers will not be affected by the payment of these funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Colleagues, we're going to ask the Minister of Interior Mr. Boyko Rashkov. The first question is from the MP Pavlin Krastev on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Here you go, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, another question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, another week hoping to get an answer for actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Mr. Minister, on 11 July 2021 in Chereshitsa village, Kardzhali municipality, Kardzhali district Mr. Feizula Hadjihasan, an activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, has been called to the police for testimony. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we ask you the following questions, which we hope will be answered at least this time: on what legal basis is he called to the police? Has the prosecution been informed and what further action has been taken on the case described? I note that the questions asked are in connection with any unlawful action by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior or some of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u149	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Krastev, I am surprised that you are asking the question with such an introduction that once again questions, you have been waiting for an answer, at least now to receive one. If not every Friday, every week I give answers to all the questions you've asked me. You probably want me to answer something that you want, without interested in what the actual situation is. I am trying to answer your questions correctly and accurately, using information that I receive from the Regional Directorates of Internal Affairs, where almost every case has a check carried out, undertaken which has taken place under the management and control of the relevant Prosecutor's Office! And I can't understand what you want me to say more than that. The state has this information, and I'm offering it here publicly in the Chamber. How come we haven't answered any of your questions? And since the same questions you are asking me, in many cases, in almost 99%, and the answers are almost identical, because in advance you believe that the question you are asking me hides some reality that is in violation of the Law, which is contrary to the Law, and in 99%, even in 100% of the cases, it turns out that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have not taken action themselves out of the Law. Specifically on the subject. As in any such issue, the same expression is used here for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior. Please, if you have specific data on specific officers from the Ministry of Interior who have put such illegal pressure and harassment on Bulgarian citizens, indicate who they are so that we can find them and if it is found that there are such actions, take appropriate disciplinary measures. In case you have data, as I have said many times, about a crime committed in connection with the electoral process, and, of course, election campaign and election day, the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office will have to be informed, which is the only one responsible to answer these questions. The Minister of Interior is not the competent official in our country. But I would like to say something in particular in the case of which you are making public in plenary. I would like to stress that if, in what you claim blanquetically in every question, there is a piece of truth in order to be able to protect the rights of citizens whose names you communicate here from the stand, I think it is appropriate that this information be submitted to the competent prosecution. Then they could defend themselves fully if the rights and interests of Bulgarian citizens were damaged. At the moment, we cannot do this and it is not within the power of any Minister of Interior to take action which is within the competence of another state authority, in this case the Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u151	Mr. Minister, if I may, specifically, since we are already out of time for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u152	I guess there'll be a line. I'll pick it up later.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u153	Please present the answer. I'll give you a little more time to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u154	Thank you. In this case, you ask, a signal has actually been received from a Bulgarian citizen, first letters I will say the signal is addressed to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, which reports that illegal actions are being carried out in some sections of Kardzhali. For this reason, it was the relevant Ministry of Interior services that initiated an inspection. And so far, I see no further violations of the Law and no limitation of the rights of Bulgarian citizens in relation to the electoral process. On the contrary, on such signals we are obliged to take appropriate action. Imagine, for example, that it is not about your sympathizer or member and so on, but about some other citizen who does not belong to any political party. You, on the same grounds, if you have such information, could put the matter here or rather where the competent authority is, which can solve this issue. In the case of this information, which has been received at the Ministry of Interior, a relevant file has been registered, the District Prosecutor's Office has been informed, the check has been carried out under its authority and, after all, notice now, pre-trial proceedings have been initiated by the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. Do you think the Minister of Interior may answer a question: why has the prosecution initiated pre-trial proceedings? This is exclusive competence and only of the relevant prosecutor. In other words, the formation of pre-trial proceedings means that the prosecutor has found that there is legal cause and sufficient data, as the Code of Criminal Procedure says, to initiate the criminal trial. I can't answer that question any more. So, when you, dear Mr. National Representative, begin to formulate your question, please do not use an expression that you have not been answered once again. Here, once again I answer correctly: there are pretrial proceedings in the case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u155	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, for a line, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can't thank Mr. Rashkov because the answer is inadequate, as always. An expected response on our part, but an unexpected response from the person concerned who asked us to ask you about what happened last year? You still don't understand, Mr. Minister, that such actions have been committed and they have been unlawful. Even if it was 1%, they were illegal! These people have been repressed, as they have been repressed in those what to call them, dark times, communists, and perhaps someone thinks that we are not yet in the 21st century, in the years when the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has led democracy to Bulgaria, so to say that it will continue to defend the rights of Bulgarian citizens. Just to remind you that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will have it in the future so that it can stop such actions, whether by ministers or by some self-forgetting ones, so that those scary times for Bulgaria will not be repeated and we can continue to live in democracy. Please answer my other question, which is asked on 18 February 2022, which you say you do not answer questions. We've asked you for documents. You haven't given them to us yet. We just heard from the President of the National Assembly about written answers that have been received for questions that have been asked after our questions, and our questions are on hold. You know what the deadlines are for answers. I expect you to provide me with the documents and answer this question as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u157	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is how, from one, I would say, a simple case on which, in the presence of legal prerequisites, pre-trial proceedings were initiated, general political conclusions were drawn that hardly because the police investigating authorities and the prosecution had begun such actions, someone reminded of dark times from 30 years ago. I beg you very much, between the two events, there is absolutely nothing in common between the two facts. That's because in our Constitution of 1991 and in the preamble and in art. 4, para. 1 is written very clearly and easily understand that Bulgaria is the rule of law. It shall be exercised in accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State. This means the rule of law. You, I hope, do not wish, when there is evidence of a crime in the relevant state authorities, when it comes to your sympathizer, member, and so on, no criminal cases are formed. This is not an attribute of the rule of law. I don't think he needs any further explanation. Who will have it, who will not have it is not important. The important thing is that the rule of law must exist. Let it be that you are eternal, and I or others like me are not. Put that away. It's not important. However, it is important that we all have the dignity and honor of making Bulgaria the rule of law by respecting our actions with the relevant legal rules. The person you are asking me about here, I am giving a statement in the Chamber of Commerce, who has carried out actions that have been noticed by other Bulgarian citizens, and this information they have provided to the police authorities of the prosecution. There was nothing left but those authorities to fulfil their legal obligations and to initiate an investigation. And no one says that as a result of this pretrial proceedings someone will surely be convicted, for example, because he is a member or sympathizer of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. There's no such thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues, we move on to the next question, he is from MP Ramadan Atalay on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign on election day. Mr. Atalay, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, if you go a little further, perhaps the conversation will be more pleasant and more direct. You're so far behind.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u161	It makes me feel comfortable.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u162	I hope you feel comfortable. Because I feel comfortable too. Minister, you and I have known each other for many years. I can't say we're friends, but we're not enemies either. There were situations when we met in your office. There was a time when you felt bitter, humiliated by the violation of the laws by the previous rulers, and we had a long talk with you about breaking the laws. Now with the questions that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is asking, we feel so bitter, humiliated, especially the people on whom they were imposed, not to say pressure, those incorrect actions on the basis of which you influenced the electoral process in Bulgaria. Mr. Rashkov, if you're gonna answer me the same way you're answering, I won't ask a question. However, I was impressed to tell you, the last time the situation was heated, I wanted to take the floor, to lower the tension, you so victoriously went from here not to any political formation, but to the nationalist political formation. I do not believe that you have sought protection from them, but my question is: why do you, for example, only have information about the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, about the members of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, about the candidates, about the municipal presidents? Here, on the first question for Ali Bayram, I think that in Plovdiv all know him, you may know him before, why.. if you really think that all that is happening is not a violation of the Law, why then we 35 MPs try to ask you the same question every day: is the Law broken, is there pressure on political formation, and it is the political formation that is the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Over 20,000 people are who, for one reason or another, are under pressure. Do you know what's being imposed? Fear. Fear, Minister. Humiliation, Minister. Because you, when you were in that cabinet, when we met and when GERB on you did not give you the opportunity to work with the legal forms of the institution you were occupying, and you had the same humiliation, the same tiredness that we are experiencing now. I know you won't answer that question, but I will reserve the right to ask the same question when it comes to our other colleague, the MP, who has also been summoned to the police. Tell me, who from a political party, from Bulgaria, from other political formations during this time has such information? They will not complain that they have not been pressured because it has not been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u163	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer. Mr. Atalay's question concerns Mr. Ali Bayram.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atalay, yes, I agree, we've known each other too long. I am also quite calmly answering all the questions that you are asking me. The problem, in my opinion, comes from that you, out of behavior, which has become subject to the attention of the police authorities and the Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Bulgaria, are making political conclusions. I dare assure you that in their actions, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have not shared the people with such members, sympathizers from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, or from any of the other political parties currently represented at the National Assembly. That's what I say most responsiblely. You are asking me in cases where we are trying to protect these people in a relevant political way only, I am forced to simply provide you with information that is a different perspective. I can't spare those facts that they found at that time, almost a year ago, the employees of the Ministry of Interior. In this case, which you are asking me about, or rather, you have not fully developed the question, but as they are the same, I answer: the difference is only that it is about another settlement and the factual situation differs in some hypotheses, in some cases. Here I will tell you that information has been received in the Economic Police Department of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Plovdiv for taking action and preparing for the allocation of money for campaigning and buying votes for the 11 July parliamentary elections. By acting on this information in this Directorate, the relevant officials are obliged to carry out an inspection, as when information on any other type of crime is received. It's the same way they operate. Let's not think that the police authorities will take selective action depending on this, the person for whom the information is about, which political formation it is from, a party. If we allow this, this will bring us back, somewhere very far back in history, which is dangerous. Otherwise, the employees of the Ministry of Interior, the Prosecutor's Office, they are bodies that have as their main task, duties, powers in the course of the criminal record, whatever it is to take action in accordance with the law or within the framework of their rights and obligations defined in the Law. Otherwise, we will accuse them of inaction, which, I think, in the case at hand, and in many other cases, we cannot say that there are such facts. After receiving this data and registering a relevant file in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Plovdiv, the materials collected are reported to the Prosecutor's Office. Not me, not someone else. So any political action in this direction, if you hadn't asked, I wouldn't be interested at all, and I wouldn't know that there is such a case, let alone have any commitment, necessarily to investigate, necessarily to check out the citizen X of Plovdiv, who is, for example, your sympathizer, member or even candidate for the MP. There's no such thing. The prosecution based on this report, which was made by the Economic Police in this case, ordered an inspection. Under our laws, these instructions given by the prosecution are mandatory for the employees of the Ministry of Interior. We can't ask them not to fulfill them. It is on this occasion that the citizen you are asking about and claiming to have been harassed and so on has been summoned accordingly to provide information, of course, if he wishes, in relation to this case for his clarification. That's the case. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] From now on, after following the instructions of the monitoring prosecutor, this material is sent to Plovdiv District Prosecutor's Office, which has not initiated pre-trial proceedings, that is to say, we do not have a criminal trial initiated because of all the facts collected by the police, there is no evidence of a criminal offence of a general nature. That's the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u165	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Atalay, you have the floor for the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, it was with your answer that you confirmed what I set out before I asked the question. Information has been received, and I tell you again, the information is only for the members of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and related people with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. You read or didn't say here that the overall procedure of those who for one reason or another, you used the word Xerox, wrote the snitches. In this way the information is collected, the leaders are called, the people are called in to organize the elections, and subsequently, you see, you say yourself that there is no charge filed. The case is dismissed. But the election, Minister, have they passed? They've passed. Have you influenced the results with your actions?! Of course, it's not your fault. You say you didn't order them. Do you see the results today in Parliament how political formations are distributed? Distributed political formations and you boast of what Parliament is now. But the results we see from the point of view of the incompetence that you have brought to Parliament, will you bear political responsibility? Or you created one such base, you said we shouldn't go back in those years when we broke the laws. You consciously or unconsciously influenced the election process. The results today have reached inflation, and I can also develop this theory for you and it is right, righteous, we see it here today. Otherwise, I think you have enough praise, Mr. Minister, that you have achieved good results by imposing certain actions on certain political formations. You said you'd reduced the vote purchase. If you want to go, go and ask. I'm 25 years in this parliament. I must have made over 30 or 40 choices. You see, do I look like I've been buying votes? Go out and say it, if it's a yes, if you've done this job. I, with a pure heart of this tribune, can say it, because you speak irresponsiblely and your actions are irresponsible, and all your services. That way Bulgaria won't come out on the right track, you know. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u167	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Would you like a douche? You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister, please. [[(Reply from.. We continue the Change.........................................) Noise and lines from DPS.)]] Mr. Hamid, if you wouldn't mind insulting your colleagues. I didn't hear what was said, but... Here you are, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Hamid!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u169	Who is this?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u170	It's not trendy for you. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. I really didn't hear. Even if he's a colleague of mine, if I'd heard from him, I'd have made an observation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u171	From your group, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u172	It's not specific to you, please don't take it personally. I just heard what you said. I'm not sharing it from here. Let's keep the good tone. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u173	I also appeal to that. As you can see, we speak calmly and thank the MP Ramadan Atalay. I would like to say the following: once again, there are no actions of the Ministry of Interior which are aimed only at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms (July and November) last year at the two elections. Since you ask me, I will repeat once again, for specific cases I introduce you to them, there is no other option. It is not possible to initiate criminal proceedings on every alert that enters the Ministry of Interior or the prosecution. Our law is made in such a way that only in certain cases, in the presence of certain prerequisites, it is permissible to initiate a criminal trial. And when these checks that I introduce you to, in general, gather materials and can be concluded that a crime has been committed, production is carried out. If not, no production shall be formed. And this applies not only to cases of so-called election crimes against citizens' political rights on the occasion of the elections, buying and selling votes. No, these are the requirements of the Law in absolutely all cases of crimes committed subject to investigation under our Criminal Procedure Code. So from this particular and from some other cases, please do not make the wrong conclusions, as these are the wrong conclusions that, you see, the proceedings have not been formed, respectively the case has been terminated, so the police action is tendential. There's no such thing. I assure you, there is no such thing. Otherwise, the prosecution will be continuous, so to speak, of shelling, because it terminates the files and not the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, and it terminates or initiates proceedings only when there are legal prerequisites for it. Let's not teach the D.A. how to do his job from this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Anastasov. You have the floor for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u175	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. Don't worry about it. It's not for Mr. Rashkov. Since an anonymous colleague in the Chamber dared to call on Mr. Atalay, we did not see him, because it is just the angle, I would ask the same colleague who did not second-time confirm his anonymous call, or come out here to apologize to Mr. Atalay, if he does not otherwise, Mr. Chairman, please, within the meaning of the Law, withholding criminal data is also a crime. Let's go through the tapes and let the D.A. know that the relevant colleague knows something the whole room doesn't know. There's a chance the coworker can do it now. You have a chance to invite him, too. If we do not notify the prosecution and the relevant colleague to follow the rule of law. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u176	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. I invite colleagues to refrain from any qualifications to anyone in this House. The records are public, so anyone can review them if they really... [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I say they're public, and anyone can review them and submit data to the prosecution if they think there's been a crime committed, Mr. Anastasov. And my colleague, I believe he'll apologize to Mr. Atalay if he's actually given a line to him. Let's get to the next question. He's also from Mr. Ramadan Atali. You have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, of course, and the second question I won't read. In fact, I was thinking of calling in those three or four of our employees who spent a long time doing research, searching, trying to figure out how to write these questions to ask them. And you see and, perhaps, all the MPs see that all these questions that are asked, the point is quite different, and the goal is what you understand it and you understand it, but after you have come into this carousel, we are wondering at the moment how to get out of this situation, for which, of course, we have no fault at all. Because when you were doing this thing, Minister, you ordered it or not, I'm not looking for an answer to that question, but we get to the question, to the mentality, to the character, to that situation of our voter, where, over the long years of life, for one reason or another, they've always been bothered, humiliated, demeaned. This is what makes us react in this way so that fear of breaking the Law will not be imposed, as it has been violated for many years, as they are now continuing to break the law, and by the Prime Minister. Therefore, Minister, we also have no confidence in those institutions that had to introduce legality, order, because you felt that during the elections the appropriateness was much more important than the legality. And here is my second question, which we are asking you, about Tanner Ali, a man who was four mandates mayor of the municipality and candidate MP again in Plovdiv district. By saying Plovdiv, in your view there is immediately a number of other views for this voter, which is separated in one neighborhood. But no one wants to go live like them. Nobody wants to go in there, understand their mentality. None of us here, except the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, set foot in this territory in order to be able to build them a street or a sewer. And what about those settlements, for example, I'm telling you Muldava, if you know the local mayor. Well, all the village mayors have been called in, Mr. Minister. You, when you call the first in the village the village mayor, how do you think it will affect the election process afterwards?! That's how you decide to buy the votes! With this you have solved what problem have you solved? So, Minister, I may be emotional. I'm emotional because I know you're a stubborn man, but this rematchism or that hatred, that humiliation, that thing that's been imposed on you over the last few years, you don't have to transfer it and distribute it to others. That's why I'm here, and I'm sad to tell you. I am telling you this with the clear awareness that the Bulgarian public should know that if we do not comply with the laws, if we still enter this parliament people who do not go into depth, in the realization of things, but smile at every thing they are told seriously, I regret it, so it will be. I expect at least one meaningful answer without you entering the legal area and teaching the MPs from the DPS how we didn't know to ask questions because we know what we know, but others don't know that either. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u178	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. You have the floor to answer, Minister. This case concerns Mr. Tanner Ali. I hope I spelled the gentleman's name right. You have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atalay, you have several questions regarding citizens living in Plovdiv region. One of them is this Mr. Tanner Ali. Yeah, he was running for MP. It is true that appropriate action has been taken and I will tell you why. I don't think there's any evidence to claim harassment against this man, or anyone else, in the cases that I've already been asked dozens of questions about. The information received in the Regional Directorate of Interior in Plovdiv is also about the allocation of funds for buying votes for the parliamentary elections last year. Because once or twice here, it was underlined who submitted the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Penal Code, which criminalizes the purchase and sale of votes. The fact that an importer then, excuse me, I have not been, but I have heard it from your MP from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The fact that someone in this parliamentary group has introduced this bill is commendable, but it does not mean that from now on everyone is free to buy and sell votes because, you see, he has written, introduced and adopted such a law. On the contrary, we all have to abide by these laws, otherwise there is criminal responsibility, and it is, note whether it is a citizen who is not a member of a political party that is a party or a member of a particular party, or whether it is a candidate for a Member of the National Assembly, including a Member of the National Assembly. Let me not deepen the problem, the issue of the fact that in any case the law provides for the possibility of seeking appropriate criminal liability from persons with immunity, such as candidates for MPs in the relevant period plus those already registered as MPs. It is about committing common crimes in which cases of actual immunity can also be charged under certain conditions, including detention. This has not resulted in such drastic actions and decisions of the relevant and competent authorities. The information she received at the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Plovdiv has first served to file a relevant document, a corresponding file there. We have the number, of course, on July 2nd. On 2 July 2021! These materials have been reported to the D.A., the D.A.'s office has ordered an inspection. She has ordered an inspection, so the police's actions are not tendingly directed towards the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, but to do their job, as the prosecution considered that there are prerequisites for such vicious actions. Is my time running out, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u180	Yes, Mr. Secretary, we're 40 seconds out of time already.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u181	The police authorities were obliged to comply with the instructions given by the prosecution and a deadline was set for 5 July, they completed the inspection on 4 July and sent the materials to the prosecution. Indeed, this person is asked about what the information has been obtained because there is no production. He is neither accused nor witness, and is invited if he decides, if he considers it necessary, to provide information. Following the implementation of these instructions, the materials were sent to this prosecution in Plovdiv, which found that there was no grounds for pre-trial proceedings and the file was terminated. So if it is believed that human beings are limited in some sense to the rights that someone in the election period has committed acts, it is for two or three days until this inspection is completed. I don't downplay these two or three days, but this is a common procedure, a common procedure that no one is insured of. Anyone could get into a situation like this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question, colleagues, is from the MP Sezgin Mehmed on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. [[DPS lines.]] Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Atalay. You're right, colleagues. Mr. Atalay, you have the floor for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I rarely go out on this stage, especially on Fridays, I leave it to the young to be able to manifest themselves, especially the new ones. But I see you can't seal the time. Mr. Minister, this is my line. I believe that both the Bulgarian public and you understand what the debate between the DPS and you is about: the legality, the inability of police structures to influence the electoral process. And you understood it, Mr. Minister, and you know this thing, only if elections are held in Bulgaria once again and the same lawlessness is required in the last elections, you should know that the future of Bulgaria will never fall into good hands. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u184	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? [[Replying from "We continue the Change" with a request for a declaration.]] The declaration will be after Minister Rashkov's duplicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the speech of Mr. Atalay, respected by me, the MP, one of the dominants in this House, I would like to draw attention, let him understand that I am very kind to him specifically, the use of the expression appropriate with the law, according to this case, seems extremely unacceptable. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior act by This is how they take their actions and the representatives of the Prosecutor's Office. If actions are directed against a particular political party, then we can say that there is some appropriateness that no one accepts, including me. However, where there is evidence of a crime, only by law must be applied, that is to say, legal action. In specific cases, I assure you, I find no reason to announce that the actions were trendy because it is about representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Once again, whether the citizen is a partyless or a member of a political party, if he is involved in buying and selling votes, as this is a common issue, no matter how many issues there are, the Ministry of Interior and the prosecution will move forward and will start taking the necessary action. Notice, I will also note that in our country, when it comes to such electoral crimes under art. 167 and the following of the Penal Code, only and only the prosecution can request permission from the court for the use of special intelligence means and no one else. This is known to the practitioners and theorists, this has also been accepted by this Chamber so that, as is the principle of separation of powers, the power to deter, because otherwise you can obtain what you say, as the Ministry of Interior is an executive body, part of the political power, the executive power, is not allowed by law precisely that power to seek against any MP the use of special intelligence resources to avoid, to ensure that no political element in this investigation is involved. Note that in the investigation of this category of cases special intelligence means are often used, and in order for the monitoring prosecutor to proceed with such a secret action, it must have solid data on this, with solid grounds, as its request is only not sufficient to apply a more detailed method. We have judicial control there. And I think that if we deepen the conversation, because we are having it on such a question, written many times, then you will see that your concerns that someone is hardly carrying out trendy actions, appropriate actions specifically directed to the party. If you please, let us correct the questions and answers, because otherwise we would blame both the prosecution and the authorities of the Ministry of Interior for failing to fulfil their duties. As far as the phenomenon of a crime against political rights is concerned, all acknowledge to one that the number of hypotheses in which such crimes have been proven has actually been increased. I had at one time the practice of bringing you court decisions. If you want, I'll resume it, but I don't find it necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are continuing the Change. Mr. Kambarev. Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Kambarev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Bulgarian citizens! The word businessman in Bulgaria has become a dirty word. It has become a dirty word because of all the schemes that some people benefit financially because of the long-standing patronage of the power they have had. It is perfectly understandable that when you dig into the hive of corruption, drones accustomed to consume public resources, they begin to sting. The stakes are the state and its future, the money in the budget will continue to grow if we keep closing the mafia faucets. Bulgaria's entry into the club of the real European countries is at stake. After so many reports and efforts Bulgaria is still not part of the Schengen area. When we saw this hole at the border, we understood why 10 years of not a minute of video footage from the premises of the border where they were unloaded, reloaded the trucks coming from Turkey and entering the European Union. We're talking 200 quid a day! This, honourable Members and honourable viewers, is a huge scandal. We have clearly and categorically said: zero corruption, the end of the schemes, and this will no longer go on. Now we see the answer against us. He's not only from the mob, he came to the Anti-Corruption Commission meeting yesterday. Instead of asking questions to the representative of the company that took over the functions of the state to try to unravel this scheme, to make it clear what was going through Captain Andreevo, what the damage to the state, we heard a request for resignation of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. They don't even hide anymore. For us, at least now it is obvious that this is the model of the union of the Mafia and the state. When you want to make a change, there's a stand-up against her. When you want to stop the Mafia's schemes, the resistance is huge. We want the money that belongs to the state to reach people, to enter pensions, salaries, roads, not drawers, in bags and black party boxes. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u188	Thank you, Mr. Kambarev. With this we move on to the next question to Boyko Rashkov, and he is from the MP Sezgin Mehmed on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Here you go, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, Mr. Minister, I address you with all due respect, given that you are the age of my parents. I would like to point out to you that we, as young people, would very much enjoy this problem or this lawlessness of buying votes to be stopped because, as young people, we are campaigning from door to door, we are going around not only during the election campaign, but throughout the year, so that we can pay attention to each voter. When colleagues compare the times of dark cases during the so-called revival process, we want to pay attention to the following, except that we want to protect the rights and freedoms of every citizen who has been violated during the election campaign and election day, we want to pay attention to you that these actions also violate the state of democracy. There are two options for these actions that you are doing, as you say about the factual situation, we are making the assumption that either you have fixed yourself on a movement of rights and freedoms, or the lessons of democracy that you have taught them, and perhaps the time that you have been educated has not been a lesson in democracy. Dear Minister, I want to tell you that I am concerned about the state of democracy and I am concerned about our future. That's why I want to ask you a question about our voter from Haskovo City. On July 10, 2021, the residence of Mr. Ferdi Fikret Raim was searched. On what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings the above-mentioned search was carried out? Have the prosecution been informed and what are the further actions on this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u190	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. Here you are, Mr. Rashkov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u191	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Mehmed, MP from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I am very happy when there are young people in this House, they are the future of the country, as there are many young people here in front of me. I assure you that if your educational process is over, mine is not yet. I am doing teaching, writing books, articles, teaching, reading lectures, experiencing students, that is, I am continuing to learn, so don't take me back 30 years, which I have heard several times today from this tribune. The topics that we are discussing with you are asking questions and I am answering have nothing to do with 30 years back at least do you know why, dear Mr. Mehmed? Because at the time that you were talking about, you weren't born and, of course, you don't know, but then there were no such texts in the Penal Code for buying votes, so don't go there. Let's look forward today and from here, because there is now an incriminating act of buying and selling votes. We're talking about this modern topic and let's not waste any time. You ask me specifically about a citizen who, in your opinion and your general wording on all questions, has been subjected to pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior. If you've spoken to this citizen, identify these police officers and send them to the prosecution because she is the competent authority. And since I have heard you speak and say something very nice, except that you are also using a rebirth process. Although we are in 2022, I do not see one in our country and that democracy has been violated, I want to convince you that democracy is being violated in this way by committing pre-election crimes on two and a half pages of the Penal Code. Turn over there, you'll see art. 167 and so on, that is how it affects democratic processes in the country, because by buying and selling votes here in plenary, people who are not for it, and this is not democratic. Representatives of the people who are elected in an honest, honest and transparent way must enter here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u192	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Will there be a line to Mr. Rashkov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u193	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Yes, Minister, this is exactly what I would like to point out to you that every case in Haskovo and throughout the country personally affects every single MP in this Chamber. Every single charge directed at our voter is directed at us as well. I've never allowed myself to buy votes, and every single accusation that someone's been buying votes means it's aimed at me. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the fact that the road to hell is full of good intentions, and I know that you want to limit the purchase of votes. We are all struggling with exactly this, if there is such evidence that someone has done so, let the burden of the law stand against him with full force. I welcome you for this, but I would like to point out to you that, in this way, it is happening with all these over 20,000 cases in the country, we are actually violating democracy. As a result of these cases, the representation of the National Assembly has been changed, and do you know how many voters in Haskovo only and only in order not to get caught up in the attention of the Ministry of Interior have not come out to vote on this, perhaps you should pay attention to this. Are you going to do a background check on all those cases that the prosecution has ordered to have an inspection and it turns out there is not sufficient evidence to take further action? This is what we want to pay attention to you, because perhaps someone allowed themselves, using democratic methods in Haskovo, to call the Ministry of Interior and point out to some other political opponent that he was buying votes only to counteract his electoral rights. By doing so, if he has diverted even a few voices, he has disrupted the balance of the people's representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u194	Thank you. Will there be an asshole, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mehmet, I would very much like to put this topic on some solid factual basis, because we are so scattered in directions that have nothing to do with matter. What do I mean? First of all, these 20,000 cases, ladies and gentlemen, are not solely related to the election process, warning protocols in the election process. In the Ministry of Interior, given the obligations for such preventive measures, we draw up warning protocols in many cases, including domestic violence. You have adopted this figure.. 20 thousand cases that almost relate only to the election process. There's no such thing. It is not possible to physically become pre-election only for this period and so on and so forth. A small proportion of these 20,000 cases refer to the election process in our country. And I think we will be very honest with the citizens of Bulgaria, before us ourselves, if we really admit that until now, until last year, hardly paid attention to this kind of crime, and that is precisely why the political interest dictated not to take active investigative action to detect and prove such crime. And in this context, let us not forget that the actions of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior are guided and controlled not only by the prosecution, honourable MPs. After all, these materials, which the authorities of pre-trial proceedings are working on, are sent and decided definitively by the Bulgarian court. He has the final word and there are not one and two cases in which there are convictions. Excuse me, Mr President, for continuing a little bit more, but perhaps I will have to start bringing back the decisions of the Bulgarian court, which are much more so far since last year than in the previous years, when this type of crime has really been ignored, and there will hardly be any reason to say that now that we are proving such crime, we are a less democratic country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u196	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is again from the MP Sezgin Mehmed on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Here you go, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u198	Just a second, excuse me, Mr. Mehmet. I hope, within the framework of parliamentary control, if we still want to understand something about each of the questions, and when asking the questions, and when answering them by the minister, we will hear something specific about each case without unnecessary political overtures. Here you go, Mr. Mehmet. I hope you'll stick to what I said.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll pay attention to what you said. One sentence out of the question. Dear Minister, we will try to lighten up every case of the 20,000. Unfortunately, we don't have the physical ability to do it all at once because, as you called it, the Xerox also has some physical inability to do it. That's why my next question is about the election region I'm from again. In the period from 1 July to 7 July 2021 in the district of.................................................................................................... So, in this regard, on what grounds and on which pre-trial proceedings the above-mentioned search was carried out? Has the D.A. been notified of the search? And what are the further actions on this described case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u200	Thank you. Here you are, Minister of the Lord.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the House, dear Mr. Mehmed! That's the same question you're asking me, but in terms of another person. There is an answer, it simply cannot be different, but here I heard, as it is not in your written question and something you added that you were present when police officers made threats and threats. I mean again, you just pointed out who was educated, very nice. I advocate that a person should be educated continuously throughout his life. It is not wrong to see, understand and learn that the threat, the threat these are penal compositions of the Penal Code, and it is right, instead of here with you, to solve criminal cases at the moment on matters that you are putting me to, to turn these materials towards the prosecution, it is competent, and the Minister of Interior is not competent to do so. So if you really want to protect the rights of this person, for whom you, as MP, I understand you, want to protect the interests, dignity, honor and if you think there is a basis for this, refer the prosecution so that it can actually take action by law so that it can come to some particular result. Otherwise, what I can tell you about this case is that what I have from the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Haskovo in front of me is that they have received there in this regional directorate operational data for the empathy of this person to this act of which we are constantly talking about buying and selling votes. Once again, the fact that, in one Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, including the fact that such initial data have been entered into a prosecutor's office and in such a way, does not mean that each case should end with an indictment and with a conviction, but when such data are received, it is imperative that their verification is initiated. Such actions have indeed started in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Haskovo, but it has not resulted in the result of the initiation of a criminal trial, as it has proved that we do not have sufficient data on this " routine practice of police authorities, including the prosecution. So criminal proceedings, as in many of the cases on which I am speaking today, have not been initiated. In this case, so is From my point of view, as Minister of the Interior, I don't even have data to deal with these employees because you didn't give them to me to see if they committed any disciplinary misconduct. Hand me the materials, if you wish, of course, and I will do what the Ministry of the Interior Act allows me to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Mehmed, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, that is why we pay attention to the state of democracy and, in fact, that every action that we do reflects on today and on the way we approach this type of problem. Unfortunately, in recent days we have witnessed plans to introduce new bills precisely under the same pretext to make blacklists. I would like to assure you that even if your name were to be included in such a list that it is unlawful, without a decision of the court or someone using their powers, you would also be protected by your rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u204	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Thank you. We move on to the next issue, which is from the MP Petar Chobanov on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, we are talking about the village of Malorad, Borovan municipality, Vratsa district, where before and after the election day on 11 July 2021 policemen visit the home of Mr. Krasimir Borisov Georgiev, activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Georgiev is not on the territory of the country and pressure has been put on his 17-year-old son, who can also be seen as mentally harassing a minor, does not in any way represent a good example for young people and disincentives them for participation in the political process. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions. On what legal basis has the above action been carried out, has the prosecution been informed and what further action has been taken on the case described? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Here you are, Mr. Rashkov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to the minor, I think that one such statement here, from this tribune, will have no practical, I would say, meaning, because we do not have such data. We have only a statement from the MP Mr. Chobanov, a respected colleague from the University of National and World Economy. Specifically on the subject. You're asking about the village of Malorad, aren't you, Borovan municipality? So I read because there is a slight discrepancy here, which is found by the Director of the ODMVR in Vratsa and makes some clarification in this direction that person Krassimir Borisov Georgiev from the village of Malorad on 11 July. There is no evidence of any action being taken against him or his home being visited. I do not know why they have indicated here that a file has been created for a person with these names, which is from Malorad, what you are asking, under a corresponding number and has received a signal in the operational part of the District Administration in Byala Slatina, 17.10 hours, they have even indicated precisely, according to the single number 112. A woman's voice called, who said that in the village of Malorad certain individuals offer 50 leva to vote for a political party. There are other details in that direction. The District Attorney's Office in Byala Slatina has been informed. Actions have been taken to clarify the signal and explanations have been taken from five persons. A check has also been carried out at the home of a person, on the basis of art. 83 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior, as well as in its motor vehicle, and corresponding protocols, documents, as required by the Act on the Ministry of Interior, are drawn up. They gave the numbers and dates on which these documents were drawn up. In relation to the verification, there is indeed a warning protocol, on the basis of art. 65 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior, which also has a number and from an appropriate date, in relation to not violating the electoral rights of citizens, something that is routine upon receipt of such information. A check has been carried out at the person's home and a corresponding protocol has also been drawn up, a check of the motor vehicle used by him, also on the basis of the Ministry of Interior Act. We're talking about this man you're quoting in your question. You claim that this man was not in Bulgaria, his son corresponded with the police there, but here I do not read such a thing at all. There's probably some kind of match to names that probably won't be very accurate either. But this file was sent to the District Attorney's Office in the territorial ward there, in Byala Slatina, and the prosecutor, even named the coworker, refused to initiate criminal proceedings and the file was terminated. That's how one of these checks goes. It could be from a citizen today we have had such a case that informs, say, one of the questions is from Kardzhali, about specific violations that this citizen has noticed and therefore informs the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Here the signal came through the single number 112 and took, of course, the necessary action to clarify whether the information was reliable or not true. If it's credible, take the necessary investigative action. As for this harassment that you are talking about, I will conclude with this, however, if there is evidence of a crime, the prosecution should be brought to the attention, as it is competent to take action on an investigation against the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. This cannot be done specifically for the investigation of the Minister of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u208	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Chobanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, perhaps in your answers as well, it seemed to me, if I am mistaken, of course, you will correct me, we are mixing the two questions, as the next question is also about a person from Malorad, who has similar initials, which I think you mentioned. Ah, but that question will be developed shortly. This is really about the person Krasimir Borisov Georgiev and his son, that his son is really visited, and more than once, given that the father is absent. And what you're saying is that there's no such clue, there's no data, and it's also a problem, so are there any similar actions that are not even left behind? Perhaps that is why it is nice to pay attention to this particular case, because if we do not already have a documentary clue in such actions, it is really not in line with the legal order and can cause further questions and actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. A hole, Mr. Secretary? Thank you. Welcome back, Mr. Chobanov, for your question about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we have also reached the person in question, which we have just spoken about. On July 9, 2021 in the village of Malorad, Borovan municipality, Vratsa district, a search of the home and car of Mr. Miroslav Georgiev Antonov, activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, was carried out on a signal for the purchase of votes. Then he was forced to sign two protocols. We found out the signal was probably from an anonymous female voice on 112. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case, on the basis of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions. On what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings the above-mentioned searches have been carried out, has the prosecution been notified and what are the further actions in the case described? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Here you are, Mr. Rashkov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chobanov, this is another case for another person. This is about Miroslav Georgiev Antonov. It is not right to communicate them on the microphone, but because there was some misconception specifically for the previous one. With regard to it, I will read some things to be specific about this case from last year, so I trust what I have that we have established in the course of preparing for the answer to your question. In the field of criminal crime countering at the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Vratsa, operational information has been received that this person you are asking about from the village of Malorad is engaged in criminal activity related to the offering of money to people from the village in order to exercise their right to vote in the upcoming parliamentary elections for a particular political party. On the occasion of this operational information which has been received, a file has been registered with a reference number of 9 July 2021, according to the description of the Regional Directorate of Vratsa, and, of course, the relevant District Prosecutor's Office in Vratsa also indicated the number of the same year. Verification action has been taken immediately. Of course, the investigation was carried out under the direction of the District Prosecutor's Office, which also provided guidance in this direction on the legality, which is generally the case with the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is this verification that this person has been identified. On the basis of the relevant texts of the Ministry of Interior Act, the home of this citizen was visited, a check was carried out there, as well as in his passenger car, for which appropriate protocols were drawn up. The numbers and the date are indicated. The checks have not identified any interest in items and items relevant to the information already received which led to such action. The person has given oral statements on the matter, it has been drawn up a warning protocol under art. 65 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior in relation to the data received that deals with crimes against the political rights of citizens. Information has been received, taken from his wife, as well as from neighbors, of course, and others, for whom the relevant police authorities have considered that they can obtain information that is relevant to what is being done. The paper is sent to the district attorney's office, see now.. with an opinion on the termination of the proceedings. That is, the police authorities themselves have concluded that what they have done and the information they have collected is not sufficient to initiate criminal proceedings. And on this basis, perhaps, of course, and on his own assessment, the relevant monitoring prosecutor satisfied the opinion of the investigators there, the police authorities, and suspended the file. That's the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u214	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Minister, from the questions we have heard today, including these two and previous times, we see that it is difficult to say that there is a template in the questions themselves and that the cases are the same, on the contrary. But what I'm seeing is that maybe there's a pattern in the approach. It is not in the questions, but in the approach, which is pathetic, because these are different people, with different fates and treating them stencilly is not the most respectful way in which we can respect their political rights and freedoms. It is not the most respectful way to put in a matrix of sympathizers and members of a political party, or to try to bring them into a similar matrix, but as we see, there is also a response to this which we, with our questions and the search for the truth, are trying and giving here. But what are my concerns? My concerns are not only directed at you, but are generally based on the reality that when the current political processes and configuration we observe are conceived in sin. The dynamics of events naturally lead us to the most up-to-date bill that my colleague mentioned, the black lists, the withdrawal of rights and property, which is completely contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the country's norms and contrary to European principles and norms. We don't have to come to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u217	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Chobanov! Now that there is a template in your questions, there is no doubt about it in the whole room, and certainly the Bulgarian viewers who monitor the control of my participation in it.. they are also convinced of it. I have many acquaintances who call me, understand the political subtext of your political activity, as you still have to appear, albeit in opposition, and in the current composition of the Parliament, and this is normal, quite normal. People also understand that the Ministry of Interior for the first time succeeded, although only for half a year, so as to organise its work that not only to investigate successfully, but the materials when they arrived in court, the court would also order judgment. I would like to stress this again in times more than in previous years. I've said it, and now I'm gonna say it again. We found some unprepared activists of various political parties who were so caught up in this activity that they did not expect anyone to start investigating it. Perhaps this is one of the reasons why we have a much better result in revealing and proving this kind of crime in our country. Something that, by the way, is also recognised from international sources, if I may say so. Now for the template. However, the template in the approach of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior cannot be because each case is interesting in itself and has different shades. If not, honourable colleague Chobanov, there would be no 10 different compositions in the Criminal Code, which are essentially under the heading "Crimes against citizens' political rights." So we cannot have a template approach, but we need to mislead it under the particular penal text itself, which has obviously been done successfully since we have a much greater number of convictions. Now, I'm glad you want and seek the truth, so you said just now, which is good. You're looking for the truth, but you're looking for it with your own means. You seek the truth by speaking to your sympathizers, members of your political party, my respects. But only this is most often not enough to get to the objective truth, because your statements here from this tribune most often do not correspond to the facts that I give you comprehensively, as far as can be said here by this tribune. We seek the truth about whether a crime has been committed or not, and we believe that we have found the truth, we have reached the truth when the court has issued a corresponding act which has come into force. So the difference between your country's search for truth as a political entity and the search for truth from authorities dealing with criminal justice is something different, at least in this parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u218	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. We move on to the next issue by the MP Adlen Shevked about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign on election day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, I will be specific about the actions of the police in Selective region, Kardzhali District, namely: on 7 July 2021 in the village of Drangovo, Kirkovo Municipality, Kardzhali District was searched for a food store owned by Mr. Venelin Tsvetkov Draganov, who is actually the local chairman of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the respective local place, having seized notebooks with the names of debtors and has been served with a protocol. With our intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions, namely: on what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings the said search was carried out? Has the prosecution been informed of this search and what further action has been taken on the case described? I would like to draw your attention, Mr Minister, to the fact that the questions asked are related to the possible unlawful acts by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and that they do not affect the personal rights or interests of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Shevked. Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u221	The same question which concerns different citizens, but, anyway, the aim is to shed light. And now, we're going to shed as much light as we can from this tribune. Yes, there is indeed such a case in this village of Kardzhaliyska Oblast, where on 7 July 2021 the police department concerned received information that, in connection with the elections on 11 July, the person C.C.D. He had an address, an address, everything. He offered goods and to simplify accounts recorded in a notebook, and you correctly said that a notebook had been seized. That is why this notebook was seized, because the information received indicated that a notebook is recorded, as police officers in many towns have encountered in such cases, not only in Kardzhaliysko, but also in many other places. They are wanted, I can say, various mechanisms so that citizens can be attracted to vote for one political party or another. That's one way to do it. And by the way, not only have checks been carried out in respect of such actions, as Mrs Shevked said it was a sympathizer or a member, a local chair of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, but of persons who were supporters, members or sympathizers and other political parties last year. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is not the only party involved in such cases. And that's exactly what this case is. Now, a check has been carried out by the regional management at Kardzhali District Directorate and this notebook is voluntarily transmitted by him, by the person for whom the relevant protocol is drawn up........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Right by the book! An appropriate file has been registered at the police station, of course explanations have been taken from him and other persons, a warning protocol has been drawn up under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act, as well as in many other similar cases, with a view to preventive effect on such persons who have been suspected of committing acts belonging to these crimes under Chapter Three of the special part of the Criminal Code.Crimes against the political rights of the citizens.Something routine, usual, and this case file with a corresponding opinion has been sent to the District Prosecutor's Office in Kardzhali. Unfortunately, I can't tell you at the moment what the prosecution has decided, but I could in another session, on another occasion, inform you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u222	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Shevked.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u223	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, I regularly hear from our local chairman in the village of Dragovo. Until last night, i.e. until 26 May 2022, there were no charges against him and he was restored the notebook in which the accounts were recorded, which people made in the relevant store for a number of economic reasons. And the fact that he is the local chairman of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, that the police are entering into the property of a person who is trying to do some business in his own homeland and in his homeland, passes a lot of limits because you are not only reaching for his human rights, you are also reaching for his business affairs, but also for the interests of the people who have taken their goods without paying for it due to lack of money to pay it. So I'm going to ask you to have more information about this case, because this person is hurting both his business interests and his personal human interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u224	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, will he have the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the House, dear Mrs. Shevked! I just want to say something that is like an axiom in the activities of the authorities of pre-trial proceedings and, if you will, of the court, in every civilized country. There is no case in which to investigate a crime without prejudice to rights. There are no cases like this! In the Constitution there is one norm, it is very indicative That's exactly what I'm saying, and that's what the Basic Law says. Where the state authorities obliged under the Constitution and the law to investigate, when there is evidence of a crime, start to carry out checks, they may not affect anyone's interests. In this case, yes, it is. Probably in one such settlement, and not only when the Ministry of Interior employees go, perform a search and.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I agree that this is a post-factum, I agree that not always this reparation, which will receive on the basis of the State's liability law will be sufficient, whether it will establish and to what extent the reputation, image and authority of the person and so on, but these are objective actions without which it cannot. You can't! I can give you many more examples, but I think you understand. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u226	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from Stanislav Anastasov on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u227	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, today your tone is different. My question relates to the actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign, namely in July. Specifically. On July 8, 2021 in the town of Belogradchik, Vidin District, Mr. Angel Milchev Georgiev, Vice-President of the District Council Vidin and the municipal president of the DPS in Belogradchik was drawn up a warning protocol for buying votes. On the same day, two police officers visited his home to check how he kept his hunting rifle, for which he was also drafted a protocol. The last one must be a coincidence. So my question is: on what legal basis and what is the presence of sufficient data to come up with a warning protocol? The standard question: Has the prosecution been informed and what are the further actions on the case described? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u228	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Mr. Rashkov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, in the verification carried out in the Regional Directorate there it was proved that on 8th.. not to be wrong only the date, 8 July of your Vice-President of the Regional Council and municipal chairman was carried out a check on the basis of art. 153, p. 1 et c. Art. 2 and Art. 2 154, para. 3 in relation to Art. 98, para. 1 of the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. You can do a check like that. Maybe. The law allows, it can be done. Such checks shall be carried out in many places in relation to issued permits for possession, carrying and so on, storage, if you will, of the weapon and ammunition that must be in a certain number and so on and whether they are stored in the legal order at all. In addition, data has been received about this person that he is taking action to influence through them the forthcoming election process....................................................... the upcoming election process............... 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act, warning protocol. All these actions that have been carried out are within the authority of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and are based on relevant legal provisions which I deliberately and intentionally quoted. So in terms of whether it has been demonstrated, as is the general wording, pressure and harassment, I think that when a state body is carrying out its duties by law, it should be borne in mind that it is bound to do so and already the interpretation from now on whether it is for the purpose of harassment or not, everyone is free to do so. In this case, I don't think anyone had such intentions. If you claim that it is so that this citizen, on the other hand, feels affected by police action, let him refer the prosecution so that she can carry out an inspection and if someone has committed a crime, be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u230	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Here's a line, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u231	Mr. Minister, I understand that you are, as you yourself have said, forced to expose another point of view, I must tell you that we have understood quite well what you are talking about and what you are subjected to in recent weeks. But I'm saying it very well, I'm not picking on you. I have to tell you that many coincidences occur in the case of how the same people are simultaneously being given signals of alleged vote buying, of storage, while there is another case.......... from these elections, I remember them, in which I signaled 112 against a representative of the now ruling coalition..............................I do not see it at the moment in the Chamber. The guy kept doing what I got data that he was doing from a few people, and I was called in to write an explanation of what I saw about him. This is about the common approach and about the legality that I see that you want on paper to happen. Otherwise, there were coincidences again, as with the case of the rifle, where a certain Deputy Minister was passing by, and after a few days they started raining signals. But I understand that you are obliged to present another view of what I started with, but you have to understand that what these people have endured, and you notice that we are the only ones in this room who complain about it, no one else asks questions, which is also interesting as a coincidence, remains certain injuries in these people. We, as MPs, are obliged to defend their honor and dignity, yet there is no more how to protect them, as you say, a Xerox, and they do not have the impression that they are working on a Xerox just because they are representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u232	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Mr. Secretary, does he have an asshole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u233	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Anastasov! It is constantly suggested by the stands that the employees or authorities of the Ministry of Interior, such as having concentrated, stared at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and working only with regard to this political party. I want to tell you that we do not pay as much attention to your political party in this direction as you do to yourselves here, from this tribune! No, we don't! [[Reply from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u234	Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u235	You'll still be criticized.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u236	Please don't throw that shit at me. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u237	I have a complete understanding of what you said. I believe it is so that you have signaled that you have given an explanation. All right, give me the case so I can check it out and let you know. Imagine that there are such data in the Ministry of Interior, we can explain what has happened, whether it has been checked, what it has established, as in numerous cases here. I assure you, I will not stop to inform you that the signal that you have made to 112 and have given an explanation concerns some other party, including one of the ruling coalition. I won't stop, I'll let you know. Give her this information to make it clear that the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria is not politically addicted when this office, which she runs, is bound by a Constitution and legally investigates every crime in the country without regard to who committed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u238	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a question from MP Bajram Bajram about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Here you go, Mr. Bayram.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u239	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, we know that you have special treatment for the young. I feel a little affected by what you have answered to my colleague Mehmet. You said he couldn't remember what happened during the so-called revival process because he wasn't born yet. I was born in 1986. I have many vague memories when we were expelled from our homeland from the Turkish border and I am obliged to say that we may not remember everything that happened, but we know what happened. We know this from our parents, from the older of our political party, and we young ones will not allow this to happen again. [[Applause from DPS.]] Specifically on this subject. He is once again associated with the dark times of the communist regime. You'd say, "Why is it connected?" Well, on July 11, 2021, in the village of Opalchensko, the municipality of Kardzhali Raif Erjan Yussain was called for questioning. Immediately representatives of our political party went to the village in question, met with calls for questioning, as well as his relatives, and their words were: The militia came, as if it were before 1989, the communist regime was returning. In relation to what legal basis has the prosecution been called for questioning, has the prosecution been informed, and what are the further actions on the case described? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u240	Thank you. Colleagues, shorter overtures and reproductions to the questions so that there is time and more questions to hear the answers. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bajram, when I said that your colleague was young and wasn't born then, I quite kindly said it, and I didn't mean that the one who is young cannot know. Isn't that right?! Now your question will most likely run out with just one sentence. You've talked a lot and you're a MP, a tribune, and this is a place you should use, of course, at the most. I will allow myself before I give you an answer to the question to say something that seems important to me. I want to assure you, Mr. Bajram, that not only will you not allow dark times to return to our country, and all reasonable people will not allow that to happen, so do not take positions that you are the only one and the whole society is counting on you. You are part of those who do not wish to go back to the times that have been denied by the present, so do not exclude others. On your question, as you use this general formula to develop other ones and return us to the revival process and so on, but are specific cases. Our response from what I have here are representatives of the relevant staff and bodies of the Ministry of Interior, here we are talking about the regional directorate of the Ministry of Interior. Look how simple it is. In connection with a letter received requesting information in this regard about this person, and he is an activist again on the DPS, the information is as follows: the person has not been summoned to a premises of the Ministry of Interior, has not given an explanation and has not been drafted a police warning protocol under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act on the elections held on 11 July 2021. This is the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u242	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bayram, do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u243	Mr. Minister, this is one of many cases from Kardzhali District and also from the tens of thousands of the Republic of Bulgaria, which took place in the July and November elections, and on the very day this activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was called by the authorities. All of his relatives and all the voters on this street have seen the law enforcement. Now to get out of here and say that there was no action towards him, it's not serious. So a few moments ago, a colleague from the multi-mandated electoral district said what was going on in Kirkovo Municipality. Both in the municipality of Kirkovo and in the seven municipalities in the same way were signed the warning protocols in each store, in each horemag went and signed. It was meant to intimidate the voter in our multi-mandated constituency. We want to know and our voters want to know: how and why were they subjected to this harassment and pressure by the employees of the Ministry of Interior?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u244	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. Will there be an asshole, Minister? No. Thank you. We move on to the next issue from the MP Ihsian Hakke on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign on election day. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u245	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, in particular, the way Mr. President spared me about this case. On 11 July in the village of Dubnitsa, Garmen municipality, Blagoevgrad district between 13:00 and 14:00 am Mr. Mustafa Meizin, local chairman of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the village of Dubnitsa, was stopped by a car of the Gendarmerie. A search of the vehicle was carried out and a protocol was drawn up on his driver. Around 6:15 P.M. Mr. Mazin, while standing on the bench of the square with another face, came again representatives of the Ministry of Interior, brought them into the nearby establishment and searched them by taking away their cell phones. They're being taken to the Garmen Police Department on the pretext of being arrested and released at 8:05 p.m. at the end of election day. In this regard, my question is: was there illegal action by the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u246	Thank you, Mr. Hakke. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, I see a question put to the scheme, some conclusions are drawn that are not supported by the necessary data. I'll tell you what data we have now, and you'll decide for yourself. Of course, it is in everyone's right to claim what he sees from this tribune, but let's still rely on factology. On 11 July, a signal was received in the District Government in Gotse Delchev, pointing out the following for this person you are asking: he has given funds, I am cutting money a little, as this is quite written for Roma people to vote for a certain political party. On the occasion of this signal, an inspection at the police station has immediately started, the materials on this occasion are registered, they have their respective numbers. The date is exactly this, 11 July, and the signal is reported to the prosecutor on duty in the town of Gotse Delchev. He has given instructions that are relevant to the instructions he wrote and gave the Chief Prosecutor to the Republic, how to approach such cases. Of course, the employees of the Ministry of Interior have carried out these instructions, in particular checking the motor vehicle and the driver. No lists of persons and a large amount of money have been established. Of course, a report was taken from this person, who was indeed mentioned and was already found at one point that it was an activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Naturally, or most often so, he has not confirmed the signal that he was transporting persons in order to motivate them to vote for a particular political party. For the actions taken in respect of the person and the motor vehicle itself, the relevant documents are drawn up on the basis of art. Art. 81 of the Ministry of Interior Act and Art. 65 of the same law, namely on the basis of the signal received he is warned of the responsibility if he commits a crime against the political rights of the citizens under art. 169 years of the Penal Code. I think that's enough at this point, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u248	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line? Here you go, Mr. Hakke.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u249	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, using his right to answer you, Mr. Mazin will tell you that there is a pre-trial proceedings in the District Prosecutor's Office in Blagoevgrad against political violence, of which pre-trial proceedings he is a witness. As we all know, shame remains, and shame in Mr. Mazin's family remains for life and he is ready to judge in Strasbourg all the authorities of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u250	Thank you, Mr. Hakke. Will there be a hole, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, an example has just been given as to how such information should be dealt with, i.e. in the event of a suspicion of unlawful action taken by police officers. The materials are sent, the materials are submitted to the competent prosecutor's office, because under the Code of Criminal Procedure, the only competent authority in our country to investigate police officers is the prosecution and the relevant investigation departments to it, not the police authority or even less the Minister of Interior. The Minister's crimes aren't investigated, and he has to provide them for an investigation into the prosecution. You did exactly what you had to do. So for these issues, which are uniform, respectable MPs from the..................... the Movement for Rights and Freedoms...........................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-27.u252	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That's why we ran out of time in today's session. The next regular session of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly will be held on Wednesday at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
