ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! I see the House is full on the potential last day of this National Assembly. Please register. We have 132 registered MPs. We have a quorum. I'm opening today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Mrs. Anastasova for procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am making a procedural proposal to rearrange the Programme from the last day of the activity of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. I propose that on today's plenary day the first point should be the continuation of yesterday's First Voting of bills for amendment and supplement of the Law on Construction of the territory with importers Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs; Vladislav Panev and a group of MPs; Snezhanka Trayanska and a group of MPs. Point two to be the Draft Law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank. Point three to be the Draft Law on ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Support between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Point four to be the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law. Point five to be the Health Act introduced by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Point Six to be the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund, submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Point 7 to be the first vote on bills to supplement the Public Procurement Act submitted by Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs; Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. Point 8 shall be bills amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. In addition, I propose to cancel the parliamentary control on today's plenary day and the last one hour of the work of the National Assembly to be dedicated to the final statements on behalf of the parliamentary groups to be transmitted directly on BNT and BNR. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues, I should vote separately on the few proposals made by Mrs Atanasova. Firstly, I will put to the vote the proposed order for the Programme for today, as read by Mrs. Atanasova. Vote 217 MPs: 204 against 5, abstention 8. That's how the offer is accepted. I am now voting on the procedural proposal made by the last one hour of today's plenary session to be transmitted on BNT 1 and to be broadcast on BNR. Vote 216 MPs: for 194, against 8, abstention 14. That's how the offer is accepted. I am now voting on the procedural proposal made today not to have parliamentary control. Vote 217 MPs: 196 against 11, abstention 10. That's how the offer is accepted. Colleagues, I should read you two messages: 1. On 28 July 2022, the National Assembly of the Economic and Social Council received an opinion on the topic "Updated version of the Partnership Agreement." Programs for the programming period 2021 - 2027. The material is addressed and submitted to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Transport and Communications. 2. On 28 July 2022, the National Assembly of the Economic and Social Council received an opinion on the topic: The analysis of young people's participation in decision-making processes in Bulgaria and in the European Union, including the focus on green solutions and digitalisation. The material is addressed and provided to the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports, the European Union Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Environment and Water, the Commission on the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. By resolution of the President of the National Assembly, the opinion was given to the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Electronic Governance and Information Technologies. Colleagues, we continue with item one of today's agenda, namely: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWS FOR DELIVERING AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR THE TERRITORY'S TERRITORY LOCATION Colleagues, this is where we started a discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My speech will be brief, in view of today's demand for Expedition in the work of the last plenary day. My statement is regarding the Law on Changes to the Law on Structure of the Area tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Revival. As we pointed out in our opinion, we aim to comply with the provisions of art. 33 of Directive (EU) 2019/944 and we are making two amendments to the Law on construction of the territory to allow the owners of parking spaces in common garages of residential buildings to be able to place in an easier administrative order private points for charging electric cars. To this end, we are making two amendments to the Law. The first is that we eliminate the need for unanimous consent of all residents, of all co-owners, which you know is an extremely impossible hypothesis in more than 90% of the cases. This thing we eliminate by stating that this will happen without the need for consent from the other owners. Since we are currently in the first vote on the spirit of the Bill, if we accept it in the first vote, we are inclined to make an editorial amendment immediately, which, instead of not having to agree with the other co-owners, we should still make it necessary to agree on two thirds of the remaining co-owners. I believe that this is a compromise solution whereby the general assembly of co-owners, at the same time, allows the setting of such a private charge point for charging electric cars, will still give practical application of this provision to art. 183, para. 5 of the Law on Structure of the Area. The second change we are making with the Bill is to point out that for the construction of such a charger point, which is a small dashboard and cables, no longer will a building permit be necessary with changes in art. 144, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Construction of the Area. So my appeal to you is to support it in the first vote, and then I will also make a procedural proposal to examine it immediately and in the second vote with the corresponding amendment in § 1, which will reflect the desire to agree on the majority of the general assembly of floor property with two thirds, then to accept it in the second vote. We believe that with this bill we will make possible the greater application of the electric cars in Bulgaria, as we will make it considerably easier to reduce the administrative order, we will make it cheaper for all owners of the parking spaces in common garages in residential cooperatives, to be able to place their respective charging points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u5	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Georgiev, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We live in a time in which world order is being rearranged and in which, unfortunately, it affects environmental protection. To even greater regret, we live in a time when some MPs, using even the element of commotion, write and propose laws without real arguments, which in any case harms people. As a person who has devoted over 30 years of his conscious life to environmental protection, and considering that man should be placed in the center of nature and then animal creatures, I am convinced that changes to the Law on Construction in the Area will allow interested parties to appeal to a decision on construction and use by allowing for use. In this regard, as a MP from the parliamentary group of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria and as a representative of Mr. Alexander Dunchev, I express my strong position against the adoption of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Construction of the Area submitted by Mr. Alexander Dunchev. I believe that the proposed amendments and additions will result in a limitation of investment intentions due to an indeterminate delay in judicial proceedings in appeal against these intentions. This bill introduces specific regulations of the Environmental Protection Act, which are only characteristic of environmental legislation. In essence, with the adoption of the proposals, every Bulgarian citizen can be legitimized as an interested community without having any legal interest in appealing the issued building permits and commissioning of sites listed in Annex 1 and Annex 2 to art. Art. 99, Art. 93 of the Environmental Protection Act. Here's the list. One has 25 positions, which can read it in half an hour, and the other has 11 more positions. To put it another way, anyone who likes it, from now on, with the adoption of these proposals can appeal and carry out other people's orders. To be clearer, with § 3, Art. The Constitutional Court's Decision No 14 of 2020 in the Official Journal of the European Union, No 92 of the same year as the Unconstitutional Act, adopted by Decision No 14 of the Constitutional Court in the Official Journal of the European Union. 6 which allows an appeal to the General Development Plan or the amendment of such a plan and the appeal unconditionally suspends the operation of the General Development Plan or its amendment. The practice of the material law is wrong to adopt special procedural rules as laid down in § 3, Article 3. 215, and shall apply with the amendment of para. 7. In conclusion, the proposed amendments to the Law on Construction of the territory are considered to be violated in any case the public interest, creating irresistible difficulties for both citizens and the economy. Therefore, I address you and suggest that you do not accept these proposals proposed by Mr. Alexander Dunchev. As far as Mr. Panev's proposal is concerned, I believe that in the context of a serious energy crisis it is up-to-date to accept this proposal. With all due respect to their colleagues, they are clearly unaware of the chaos they will face with the introduction of their proposals. I don't know if they realize that by validating such points for charging electric cars, chaos will be created and overloading the power grid into a residential co-operative. The fact that insurmountable conditions have been set, i.e. some people's wishes to introduce such installations, means that experts have assessed the possibilities for electrical failure in a housing cooperative. And personally, if you ask me, because I say that I am well aware of the problems of consumers, how much chaos it can come to, I think it is wrong to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u7	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines? I can't see. For a statement? I can't see. We close the discussion and move on to the vote. I'm just waiting a little while to get my colleagues back who probably didn't expect us to get this discussion over with so quickly. I'm voting one by one on the bill, and if we have to, we'll have a re-vote if someone hasn't been able to vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, No 47 254 01 64, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of peoples representatives. For colleagues who enter on the run, we are voting on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of peoples representatives. Vote 187 MPs: 27, Against 107, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u8	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u9	Excuse me? Okay, re-vote, but I don't believe a vote or two will solve the outcome. Please re-vote. Vote 186 MPs: 27, against 96, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, No 47 254 01 77, submitted by Vladislav Panev and a group of MPs. Now you will get the current program that many changes have become in it. Vote 184 MPs: 128, against 51, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please re-vote. Colleagues, I don't think we need to do this to ourselves with such differences in the vote, but please re-vote. Vote 182 MPs: 126, against 52, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Now I'm putting it to the vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u10	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u11	Come in for the procedure, Mr. Panev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u12	On behalf of the parliamentary group, I'd like a 15-minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u13	I can't do anything but give 15 minutes off, but in exactly 15 minutes we start. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u14	Colleagues, we're continuing the hearing. We voted two of the bills, two more to go. There is a bill to amend and supplement the Law on Construction in the Area No 47-254-01-78, submitted by Alexander Dunchev on 24 June 2022. Vote 156 MPs: for 6, against 88, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area No 47-254-01-91, submitted by Snezhanka Trajanska and a group of MPs on 7 July 2022. Vote 170 MPs: 106, against 60, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. A re-voting request? I can't see. That's how two of the bills were passed. Is there anyone who wants to go through a second reading of any of the bills? I can't see. [[Heckling]] Well, at least we took them first. Moving on to the next point: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE MEMORANDUM FOR THE SUPPORT OF EU PROJECTS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESITION BANK. Importer: Council of Ministers on 15 July 2022 There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for EU projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 47-202-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2022. At an extraordinary meeting held on 27 July 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by Ivaylo Yaydzhiev (Deputy Minister of Finance) and Ivan Ivanov (Director of the Central Coordination Unit) Directorate in the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Yaydzhiev. The aim of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for EU projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank is to provide the basis for cooperation with the European Investment Bank under the European Funds for the Programme Period 2021 Under the Memorandum, support for projects will be implemented by the European Investment Bank on the basis of individual agreements that will be signed with beneficiaries and/or managing bodies/authorities under the European Funds. The potential areas in which the European Investment Bank will provide technical assistance are: support for project implementation; development of institutional capacity; support for the development of sectoral strategic documents. The Memorandum was approved by a decision of the Council of Ministers on 13 July 2022. Following the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a Draft for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 47-202-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u16	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Will the Commission's report on European Union issues present anyone? She's not the lead, so maybe without a report. I suggest we speed up the pace, because we have a lot of work to do today. If you think about it, you can even make it short. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u17	Sorry I'm late. I just wanted to say hello to my colleague Alex Milcheva and congratulate her on Sophia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u18	Congratulations, everyone!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u19	A draft for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for EU projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 47-202-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2022. At a joint meeting with the Committee on Budget and Finance, held on 27 July 2022, the Commission on European Union Affairs examined the Draft for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for EU projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 47-202-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2022. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Director of the Central Coordination Unit of the Administration of the Council of Ministers. The draft law aims to provide the basis for cooperation with the European Investment Bank under the European Funds for the programming period 2021. After signing the Memorandum with the European Investment Bank, bilateral technical assistance agreements will be able to be concluded on the basis of a model Agreement providing support for projects with the European Investment Bank, which is an annex to the Memorandum. The Memorandum proposed for approval by this draft Decision of the Council of Ministers summarizes the potential areas in which the European Investment Bank will provide technical assistance, namely: support for the implementation of projects; development of institutional capacity; support for the development of sectoral strategic documents. The Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank was approved as the basis for negotiations by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2022 and was signed for the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria by the Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance and for the European Investment Bank by the Vice President of the European Investment Bank on 7 July 2022. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the European Union Committee proposes, with 13 votes for and 1 vote against, the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft Law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 47-202-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Apostolova. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. We're closing the discussion. I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 47-202-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2022. They voted 126 MPs: 117 against 9, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Karimansky, about this? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the Law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for projects of the European Union between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 47 202-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2022, be adopted at a second vote in today's plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u22	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I put to the vote Mr. Karimanski's proposal that the bill be read at second reading now. They voted 141 MPs: 132 against 9, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Karimansky, to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u23	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. A single member. Rehabilitate the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, signed on 7 July 2022. Final provision. It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u24	I'm opening a discussion on the bill. We're closing the discussion. I put to the vote the name of the bill, the only member, the name of the division and the single paragraph. They voted 141 MPs: 133 against 8, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT AND SUPPORT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT. Here you go, Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'd like to do a clearance procedure. Please, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 to be admitted to the hall Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev Deputy Minister of Finance and Mr. Ivan Ivanov Director of the Central Coordination Unit of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u26	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. I'm voting on the motion for admission. Vote 137 MPs: 95, against 39, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite Ivaylo Yaydzhiev and Ivan Ivanov to the hall. And you, Mr. Sabrutev, have the floor to present the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Support between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 47-202-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 July 2022. At an extraordinary meeting held on 27 July 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by Ivaylo Yaydzhiev (Deputy Minister of Finance) and Ivan Ivanov (Director of the Central Coordination Unit) Directorate in the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance. The ratification of the Framework Agreement provides the basis for cooperation with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IMF) under the European Funds, including the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, for the programming period 2021 - 2027. The Framework Agreement was approved as the basis for negotiations by the Council of Ministers on 13 July this year. According to him, the Ministry of Interior will provide support (technical assistance) for implementation of structural reforms in Bulgaria and for effective and efficient management of EU funds for the programming period 2021. The funding will be within the framework of the relevant European funds in Bulgaria. The ratification of the Framework Agreement will be implemented through bilateral technical assistance agreements between the Ministry of Interior and public authorities managing projects financed by EU budget. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held, which received the following results: 15 votes for the debate, 1 vote against the debate and 0 votes abstention. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Support between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 47-202-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 July 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u28	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Report from the Commission on European Union issues? You're welcome to introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u29	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Support between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 47-202-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 July 2022. At a joint meeting with the Budget and Finance Committee held on 27 July 2022, the European Union Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for EU projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 47-202-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2022. There should be an error here, the Bank for Reconstruction and Development..................................................................................................... I'm guessing it was left over from the previous report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u30	Probably, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u31	The project was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Director of the Central Coordination Unit of the Administration of the Council of Ministers. The objective of the Framework Agreement is to provide the basis for cooperation with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IMHR) under the European Funds for the Programme Period 2021 Under the Framework Agreement, the Ministry of Interior is expected to provide support for the implementation of structural reforms in Bulgaria and for the implementation of effective and efficient management of EU funds for the programming period 2021 - 2027 so as to contribute to the country's development as much as possible. Under the Bill, support for projects is envisaged to be implemented by the Ministry of Interior on the basis of individual agreements that will be signed with public authorities which initiate or implement projects funded by the European Funds. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Union Affairs proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Support between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 47-202-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 July 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. I close the discussion and put to the vote at first reading Draft Law on ratification of the Framework Partnership and Support Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 47-202-02-24. Please, voting mode. They voted 132 MPs: 124 against 8, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Sabrutev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the bill adopted in the first vote on ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Partnership and Support, No 47-202-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26.07.2022, be adopted at a second vote in today's plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u34	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 133 MPs: 125, against 8, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Sabrutev, to present the Second Reading Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Support between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development A single member. It ratifies the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Support between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 21 July 2022. Final provision. It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u36	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. We're closing the discussion. We are now going to vote on the bill at second reading. I put to the vote the name of the bill, article alone, the name of the division and paragraph alone. They voted 132 MPs: 125 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. That is also the end of this item on the agenda. Moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE COMMERCIAL LAW. Report of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law, No 47-254-01-70, submitted by Peter Vassilev Kosev and a group of MPs on 15 June 2022. At its regular meeting on 21 July 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law, No 47-254-01-70, submitted by Peter Vassilev Kosev and a group of MPs on 15 June 2022. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Borislav Ganchev, Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Galina Dimitrova, State Expert at the Department of Law, Ministry of Innovation and Growth: Mrs. Polina Gocheva, Senior Legal Consultant at the Directorate of Legal Council: Professor d.u.n. Angel Kalajdzhiev, member of the Registry Agency: Mrs. Daniela Miteva Executive Director, and BESCO Bulgarian Startup Association: Mr. Dobromir Ivanov and Mr. Nedyalko Dervenkov Executive Directors, and Mr. Viktor Tokushev Member of the Management Board. On behalf of the importer The bill was presented by the MP Petar Kosev, who pointed out that it aims to modernise the current regulations of the companies in the Republic of Bulgaria and to respond to the specifics of innovative and growth-oriented startup companies. It introduces a new legal institute of a variable capital company for which no minimum amount is foreseen. The establishment of a chapter in the Commercial Law is envisaged to regulate the general provisions of the company whose capital is not subject to entry into the Commercial Register. The main requirements for the reporting of capital and company shares are developed, focusing on the freedom to negotiate between partners. The legislative initiative provides for the possibility for the company to be able to acquire its own shares. The rights and obligations of the partners, including the obligation to make a personal contribution to the company, the right to vote in the General Assembly and its convening, shall be settled and the participation of the partners in the General Assembly by electronic means shall be permitted. The activities of the Management Board or the Manager shall be regulated and, in both cases, it shall be permitted to be a legal person, including the person empowered to represent the company. The rules for the conversion and termination of the variable capital company as well as the transfer and succession of the company shares shall be laid down. The bill allows the introduction into the company's statutes of specific mechanisms such as the right to attract, the right to an advantage, the right to accession, the possibility to conclude convertible loan contracts, the facilitated transfer of company shares and other conditions. It aims to reduce initial registration and management costs, facilitate the opportunities for attracting highly qualified employees and autonomy in determining the number, composition, functioning and competence of management bodies. The Bill expects a reduction in administrative burden, flexibility and accessibility in the creation and management of small startup companies, which will contribute to improving the investment climate. In support of the bill have received written opinions from the Bulgarian Startup Association BESCO, Virchul Space., "Siunt" Ltd., BlackPeak Capital, "Anthill" Ltd., "Bica Services" Ltd., "BrightKap Investment Advisor" Ltd., "Site Ground Hosting" Ltd., Association. The opinions support the Bill, stating that the introduction of the legal figure of a variable capital company enables the solution of important challenges, such as the possibility of issuing options to employees, flexible management and regulated relations between the entrepreneur and the investor. It is pointed out that the new company form will contribute to stronger investor interest and increase the competitiveness of the Bulgarian business. Written opinions have been received from the Ministry of Innovation and Growth, the Ministry of Justice and the Registry Agency. The Ministry of Innovation and Growth supports the Bill and points out that the proposed legal form constitutes a modernisation and update of the regulations, which reflects the need to settle public relations related to stimulating entrepreneurial activity. The opinion makes specific proposals for the clarification of provisions of the Bill. The Ministry of Justice generally supports the creation of a new type of trading company. The Ministry of Justice and the Registry Agency shall express the need to postpone the entry into force of the provisions and the settlement of an appropriate period in order to be able to update the regulations governing commercial registration. Specific recommendations are made in the opinions for the precision and detailing of the system. The systematic place of the norms, the circle of persons who may be founders and managers, the necessary form for the transfer of company shares, the provision of publicity and the pledge on a company share, as well as its opposition to third parties shall be discussed. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. During the public discussion of the Bill took part Mr. Borislav Ganchev, Mrs. Polina Gocheva, Professor D.U.N. Angel Kalajdzhiev, Mrs. Daniela Miteva and Mr. Dobromir Ivanov, who united around the opinion for support of the submitted bill. Mr. Ganchev noted that the written opinion of the Ministry of Justice reflected all proposals for legal and technical editorials of the proposed provisions. Ms. Gocheva pointed out that the proposed bill is important in terms of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Prof. Kalajdzhiev noted that the Supreme Council of Laws supports the bill, focusing on the detailed arrangements proposed. He stated support for the approach adopted to maximum freedom of settlement of internal relations in companies with operative norms. Ms. Miteva noted that it is necessary to provide for a time limit for the technological provision of the Trade Register. In the discussion of the Bill took part the People's Representative Petar Petrov, who said that he welcomed the importers of the Bill, given the proposed changes, and added that it removes an essential difficulty for the business. He noted that changes need to be made to allow the maximum application of this type of company in practice. After the discussion, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers, without votes, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Commercial Law, No 47-254-01-70, submitted by Peter Vasilev Kyosev and a group of MPs on 15 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u38	Thank you, Mr. Kyosev. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation follows. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u39	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Commercial Law, No 47-254-01-70, submitted by Petar Kyosev and a group of MPs on 15 June 2022. At its regular meeting on 27 July 2022, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law. The Law, presented by the National Representative Alexander Rakshiev, establishes a legal framework corresponding to the needs of innovative and knowledge-based small companies developing and implementing products and services with high added value through the introduction of a variable capital company. It will be based on the principle of contractual freedom in determining the structure, competence and functioning of the management bodies of the company, respectively, in determining the relationship between the partners, benefiting from the financial opportunity of the public limited liability companies. The company's capital is not subject to entry in the Commercial Register and is therefore defined as It is explicitly provided that this will be a legal form suitable for the implementation of entrepreneurial projects, insofar as only micro and small enterprises can exist in this form. The minimum content of the company contract and a minimum set of rights and obligations of the partners, which may be further developed in the company contract, is indicated. Written opinions expressing principle support for the Bill have been received by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Innovation and Growth, making specific recommendations for the clarification of the arrangements of variable capital companies, including on their commercial registration. In the course of the discussion the MPs from the parliamentary groups of GERB-SDS and of "Democratic Bulgaria" expressed their views in support of the bill. They argued that the establishment of this kind of commercial company would lead to the promotion of entrepreneurial activity by facilitating the possibility of attracting investment and raising capital, reducing registration costs and the administrative burden in its management. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovations proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Commercial Law, No 47-254-01-70, submitted by Petar Kosev and a group of MPs on 15 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u40	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Mitev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to make a procedure for the discussion and vote on the Bill that we are looking at now to take place after point eight, which is in the Programme for today.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u42	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. I am not convinced that it is necessary, but I still propose that we vote on this little displacement because there is a need for some further clarification on the bill. Let's not take any extra breaks, just use the time when colleagues can clarify the texts in order to reject the other items on the agenda. Please vote on the proposal so made. If the proposal is adopted, we will continue with the bill amending and supplementing the Health Act. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We will return to the Bill of Amendment and Supplement to the Commercial Law after we are finished with item eight, which is the Civil Procedure Code. Moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE HEALTH LAW. You have been given the report by the Committee on Health. You're welcome to introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 43, para. Second sentence, first of all, I ask that Dr. Lyubomir Bakalivanov be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u44	Please, a voting regime on the so-called procedural proposal for admission. They voted 93 MPs: 82, against 7, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister. And you continue with the report, Mr. Penev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u45	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-254-01-115, submitted by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova, Kostadin Georgiev Angelov and Denitsa Evgenyeva Sacheva on 27 July 2022. At its regular meeting held on 27 July 2022, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-254-01-115, submitted by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova, Kostadin Georgiev Angelov and Denitsa Evgenyeva Sacheva on 27 July 2022. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Health Associate Professor Lyubomir Bakalivanov and representatives of the word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. In the performance of art. 72, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Committee on Health before discussing the Draft Law in substance, carried out a verification and found that it complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Decree on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Health. The draft and the reasons for the draft were presented by Professor Kostadin Angelov, who informed the MPs that the proposed legislative changes aim at preventing the spread and use by minors of diazotic oxide, known as Rai gas, which is sold freely and legally and is particularly relevant among minors. They are supplied with the gas fillers with different flavors, then with a special pump they take out the gas itself and inhale it. Professor Angelov explained that the use of Paradise gas is systematically and seamlessly practiced in discotheques and clubs, while leading doctors, pediatricians, express the opinion that it is extremely dangerous especially when used in combination with other substances, drugs or alcohol. The main danger is that the gas of paradise creates an unrealistic idea of reality, with the risks of performing routine actions after its use walking, climbing stairs and others. There is a risk of hallucinations and psychosis, even leading to an incentive for suicide. According to the available data, use leads to a state of severe dizziness, nausea and vomiting. Especially in children, Paradise gas affects the immune system and can lead to acute lack of oxygen to organs. Cases of numbness and partial paralysis of the limbs have been reported, with evidence of axonal polyneuropathy diagnosed as well as spinal degeneration. It should be borne in mind that those who have used it are dangerous not only to themselves but also to others. The use of paradise gas leads to addiction and opens doors for even heavier drugs. In connection with the bill, it is proposed the establishment of national programmes to prevent the sale of children and the use by them of diazotic oxide (raisian gas) produced by the Minister of Health, including widespread public information campaigns. Municipalities are also proposed to adopt and implement municipal regional programmes and measures to prevent the sale and use of diazotic oxide. The normal changes provide for a ban on the sale of diazonic oxide and fillers with it, including online, to persons under 18 years of age, on the territory of kindergartens, schools, dorms for students and medical establishments, sports events organised for children and students, public events organised for children and students, and in closed public spaces. It shall also be prohibited to use diazote oxide on adjacent terrains and sidewalks of the nursery, kindergartens, schools, school dormitories and places where social services are provided for children, playgrounds where events for children and students are organised, as well as in indoor public spaces. The introduction of an administrative-criminal provision in the event of violation of the above-mentioned prohibitions is also proposed, namely fine for individuals from 800 to 1500 BGN and in the case of repeated infringement from 1500 to 3000 BGN, and when the infringement is committed by a sole trader or by a legal person a penalty of 3000 to 6000 BGN is imposed, and in the case of the same infringement from 5000 to 12 000 BGN is repeated. The final provisions shall also make the relevant amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Child, as in art. 5b, para. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, In the Committee on Health on the grounds of art. 31, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 73, para. 7 of the Bulgarian Medical Association, the Bulgarian Dental Union, the Bulgarian Association of Dentists and the National Patient Organization have received opinions from the Bulgarian Medical Association. In the performance of art. 73, para. 2 of the Bulgarian National Health Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Health, the State Agency for Child Protection and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of art. 73, para. A public discussion was held at the meeting with the participation of representatives of the word and patient organizations who have provided written opinions on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u46	Mr. Penev, can you just stop for a second? Colleagues, it's extremely loud in this room. This background of noise, I think, is very harmful to health. Let's not do this to ourselves. Proceed, Mr. Penev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u47	The Bulgarian Medical Union, the Bulgarian Dental Union, the Bulgarian Dental Association and the National Patient Organization support the Bill as it responds fully to the factual situation and will help protect the life and health of Bulgarian children. All organisations agree that the proposed regulatory changes must be adopted as soon as possible. The opinion of the Ministry of Health was presented by Associate Professor Lyubomir Bakalivanov, who expressed principle support for the proposed regulatory changes. He noted that the introduction of a ban on the sale, including online, and the use by children of diazonine oxide is sufficient to achieve the objectives of the legislative initiative, namely reducing the risks to the health of minors, stressing that the proposed changes are outside the scope of art. 53 of the Health and National Programmes Act, which restricts the spread of risk factors to human health. Prof. Bakalivanov explained that diazotic oxide is used as anesthetic and analgesic in dental medicine and surgery, as well as in the food industry as propellent gas and in view of this, the generally formulated ban on the sale of diazotic oxide in closed public places could prevent the supply of diazotic oxide to professional consumers to carry out their activities. In conclusion, Assoc. Prof. Bakalivanov pointed out that the Ministry of Health supports the implementation of the legislative changes aimed at preventing the spread and use by minors of diazotic oxide through amendments and additions to the Child Protection Act. The State Agency for Child Protection and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria support the Bill. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health raised specific questions regarding the lack of a legal definition of "closed public places" and the inclusion of medical institutions in the scope of the ban. The Members of the National Assembly agreed that legislative changes are extremely timely and necessary and should therefore be adopted as soon as possible. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the draft amending and supplementing the Health Act No 47-254-01-115 submitted by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova, Kostadin Georgiev Angelov and Denitsa Evgenyeva Sacheva on 27 July 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u48	Thank you, Mr Penev. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before presenting our motives, I would like to thank the President of the Committee on Health and Health and Health, my colleagues from the Committee on Health and Health, all the parliamentary groups who supported the bill yesterday. I would like to say in advance that we will comply with the remarks made yesterday during the first reading and those made in the opinion of the Ministry of Health and we will submit them as amendments between the first and second reading of the Bill so that everyone can be satisfied and fulfill all those said in order to enrich our bill. The aim of the Bill is in practice to do everything possible to stop the use by minors of diazonic oxide, known as paradise gas. Needless to present my motives, I will just say that in many countries this has been legally decided where they have taken action for its sale. For example, the sale of Paradise gas is criminalised in Ireland, the Danish Government in 2020 following a number of disturbing incidents has taken a package of measures to limit the sale of diazonine oxide to minors. Since June 2021 in France, the sale of diazonine oxide to minors is prohibited, regardless of the packaging in all shops, public places and the Internet, and the credit for this bill, I would like to say that it is the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Diana Kovacheva, who launches a legislative initiative with laws to be changed in the Child Protection Act, but we believe that the systematic place of these legislative changes is in the Health Act, where all bans on alcohol, smoking, drugs are found. In our bill, we foresee the establishment of national programmes to prevent the sale of children and the use of diazonic oxide.. Paradise gas produced by the Minister of Health, including the broad information campaigns mentioned above. In addition, municipalities are proposed to adopt and implement municipal regional programmes and measures to prevent the sale and use of paradise gas. We create in the Health Act a new art. 54a, which prohibits the sale of diazoene oxide "paradise gas" gas and fillers with it, including online, to persons under 18 years of age on the territory of kindergartens, schools, dorms for students, medical establishments, sports events organised for children and students, public events organised for children and students, in closed public spaces. It shall also be prohibited to use Paradise gas on adjacent terrains and sidewalks of the nursery, kindergartens, schools, school dormitories and places where social services are provided for children, playgrounds where events for children and students are organised, as well as in closed public spaces. Serious penalties are envisaged for violations of art. 54a, namely: fine of natural persons from 800 to 1500 BGN, and in the case of repeating the same infringement from 1500 to 3000 BGN. Where the infringement was committed by a sole trader or by a legal person, a penalty shall be imposed from 3000 to 6000 BGN, and when the same infringement is repeated from 5000 to 12 000 BGN. With our bill we also propose an amendment to the Law on Child Protection, as in art. 5b, para. 4 The use of diazotic oxide is prohibited from children's use of Paradise gas. I thank all my fellow Members, thank you for your support and hope that today we will also adopt the Bill at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u50	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Are there any speeches? I won't. We close the discussion and move on to voting on the so presented Bill at first reading. I will put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-254-01-115, submitted by Desislava Atanasova, Kostadin Angelov and Denitsa Sacheva, on 27 July 2022. Please, voting mode. I'll wait a little longer. They voted 144 MPs: 142, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Professor Tonev. [[Reply: "Prevoting! "]] Wait. Before the procedure, we need to do a re-vote, associate professor Tonev. Please re-vote. Vote 151 MPs: for 151, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause.]] Look how fast and operational work is going today. Here you go, Mr. Tonev. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am convinced that some Members are already starting to envy the work of the Committee on Health, that they are working with such consensus. Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the bill adopted at first vote be subject to a second vote in one sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u52	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Vote 150 MPs: 150, no opposition and no abstentions. You may proceed, Mr. Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman! THE LAW OF THE amending and supplementing the Health Act § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words "alcoholic" and "residual" are replaced by "alcoholic" and after the word "residual" the words "residual" are added " and "residual" is used by persons under 18 years." 2. In para. 2 the words "alcoholic" and "alcoholic" shall be replaced by "alcoholic" and after the word "alcoholic" shall be added................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3. In para. 3 the words "alcoholic" and "alcoholic" shall be replaced by "alcoholic" and after the word "alcoholic" shall be added................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 4. In para. 4 the words "alcoholic" and "alcoholic" shall be replaced by "alcoholic" and after the word "alcoholic" shall be added................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. § 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 54a: Art. 54a. The sale of diazotic oxide (paradise gas) and fillers thereof shall be prohibited, including online: 1. persons under 18 years of age; 2. on the territory of kindergartens, schools, dormitories for students, medical institutions; 3. sports events for persons organized for children and students; 4. of public events organized for children and students; 5. in closed public places. § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1; 2. They're creating an al. 2 and 3: The use of diazotic oxide (paradise gas) in open public spaces under para. (2) The use of diazotic oxide (paradise gas) shall be prohibited. 1, t. 3. (3) The use of diazotic oxide (paradise gas) in closed public spaces shall be prohibited. § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 218 is created. 2a: . (a) Who broke art. 54a, is punished with a fine from 800 to 1500 BGN, and when the same infringement is repeated from 1500 to 3000 BGN. When the infringement under art. 54a was committed by a sole trader or by a legal person, a penalty from 3000 to 6000 BGN is imposed, and when the same infringement is repeated from 5000 to 12 000 BGN. "Concluding provisions" § 5. In the Law on Child Protection (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 5b, para. 4 the words "works and articles" shall be replaced by "works," "works" and, finally, "diazote oxide" (paradise gas) shall be added. § 6. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u54	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Here you are, Mr. Angelov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 Second sentence of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall make the following editorial proposals: 1 in § 2 in art. 54a, t. 5 to be added at the end, with the exception of the sale for medical purposes and for the food industry. 2 in § 3 in art. 56a, para. 3 to add, with the exception of the sale for medical purposes and for the food industry. My proposals relate to the opinion of the Ministry of Health and to the speeches of fellow MPs during the discussion on the bill in the Committee on Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u56	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. For a line? For a statement? Mr. Tonev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 80, para. The second sentence of the subscribing text I make the following editorial proposal: in § 2, in art. 54a, t. 3 words for persons to drop out as motives for this proposal removes a technical error in the text of the importer without altering the meaning of the provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u58	Are there any lines? The importer agrees. Are there any other statements to this bill? I can't see. We're closing the discussion and we're going to move on to a vote. I propose that we do this: I will first make three votes on the editorial proposals so made and then, if there are no objections, all the paragraphs together in a single vote. I shall put to the vote Professor Angelov's proposal under Article 2 (2). 54a, t. 5 to be added with the exception of the sale for medical purposes and for the food industry. Vote 151 MPs: 150, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of associate professor Tonev in § 2 in art. 54a, t. 3 to drop the words for individuals, which is actually a technical error. They voted 153 MPs: 153, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. And the latest proposal for an addition to § 3 in art. 56a, para. 3 to finally add with the exception of the sale for medical purposes and for the food industry, the proposal of Professor Angelov. Vote 155 MPs: for 154, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. And now I vote on the name of the Bill, § 1 (2) and (3) with the amendments and additions already adopted, § 4, the name of the division, § 5 and § 6. Vote 162 MPs: 162, no objection and no abstention. The proposal is adopted, i.e. the Bill was adopted at second reading. [[Applause.]] Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW ON THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CASE 2022 Importers are Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 28 July 2022. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making a procedural proposal under art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber Professor Petko Salchev, Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, and Associate Professor Vasil Pandov, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u60	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Please vote on the tolerance procedure. They voted 122 MPs: 110 against 8, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Salchev and Mr. Pandov. Mr. Karimansky, and you have the floor to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill for Supplement and Amendment of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for No 47 254 01-18, submitted by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova and a group of MPs on 28 July 2022. At an extraordinary meeting held on 29 July 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by Professor Petko Salchev, Manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, and Associate Professor Vasil Pandov, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. The bill was presented by Professor Kostadin Angelov. It proposes to establish in § 15 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022, para. 6 according to which the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund shall, within 10 August, determine a single increase of the same number for each employee, a new amount of the individual basic monthly salaries of the staff of the NHIF, without exceeding the maximum amount of the basic monthly salary for the respective level and level considered from 10 July 2022, within the staff costs provided for under the NHIF budget for 2022. The bill shall fill a void concerning the application of art. 1, para. In accordance with Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, any aid granted by a Member State or through State resources in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. lv. for staff costs, including additional 100 staff members for the NHIF system. These funds are necessary to increase the basic monthly salaries of the employees of the National Health Insurance Fund in relation to the transition from 1 July 2022 to the NHIF of the activities of administration of the processes related to negotiation, award, payment, provision and control of assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices (PCAMs) for people with disabilities. The additional provision proposed lays down the manner, procedure and period for the increase of the basic monthly salaries of the staff of the NHIF in relation to the implementation of the above-mentioned new activities, without having a financial impact on the budget of the NHIF. In their written opinions, the Ministry of Finance and the National Health Insurance Fund support the Bill. Following the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the basis of the first vote, a bill supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022, No 47 254 01 118, submitted by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova and a group of MPs on 28 July 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u62	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. We close the discussion as there are no willing speakers, and we move on to a vote. I'm waiting another ten seconds. Please, the Quaestors, invite the colleagues who are at the door. I put to the vote the Act supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Karimansky, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the Act on Supplement to the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022, No 47-254-01-18, submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 28 July be adopted at a second vote in today's plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u64	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I put the proposal to the vote. They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Karimansky, to present it for the second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u65	In addition to the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022 It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. Paragraph 15 of the Transitional and Final Provisions establishes para. 6: (6) The manager of the National Health Insurance Fund shall, by 10 August 2022, set a lump sum of the individual basic monthly salaries of the employees of the National Health Insurance Fund, increased by the same numerical value for each employee, without exceeding the maximum basic monthly salary for the respective level and grade considered from 10 July 2022, within the staff costs provided for under the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u66	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Come in for a statement, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u67	Colleagues, I will not be unfaithful to my principles and because, if you remember, only less than a month ago, Mrs. Miteva and I introduced a law as MPs for amendment and supplement to the State Budget Act, which had no financial dimensions. And here, unfortunately, I do not see Mr. Krum Zarkov, perhaps in consultation somewhere, I do not know, but he is not in the Chamber to see how everyone voted in the Chamber for this bill, because there was also a question of having to face an injustice in § 17 related to education. And, as we know, higher education deserved to be financed even earlier, as Mrs. Miteva and I had foreseen in this bill. When we amend the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund on a proposal from a Member of the National Health Insurance Fund and we have seen that there is such a precedent in the past, and not just now, as we are voting, it is an integral part of the State Budget Act. And as an integral part, it should mean only one thing that the State Budget Act can also be amended on a proposal from a Member of the National Assembly when it is not about the financial parameters underlying the budget and there is no dislocation, which is essential, within the State budget. And I find it somewhat untrue for some of the Members in this House who then voted against, and now for this vote for. But it's a matter of personal honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u68	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. In general, this is what you should have done at the first reading, because now we are at second reading and there is a specific text before us, but I did not interrupt you. [[Replys from MP Lyubomir Karimanski.]] Are there any lines to Mr. Karimansky's statement? Here's a line for you, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm really sorry, but I can't help but get a line. Mr. Karimanski, unconstitutional changes are proposed by MPs, the State Budget Act. The budget law of the National Health Insurance Fund is a completely different law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u70	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Are there any other lines? I'm not encouraging you to come in for a coat, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Mateev! We do not import the State Budget Act as MPs. We complete the State Budget Act. And I said exactly what needs to go down and is also laid down in this budget that we do not change the financial parameters, which is essential. But just to let you know that in the State Budget Act, within its constituent parts are the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. So how is it that if you change one component, you don't change the State Budget Act?! It's very strange the logic of this place. I don't see it's legal. And let me remind you that you cannot speak on behalf of the Constitutional Court. You cannot claim to be unconstitutional because the Constitutional Court has proved to you what you are doing unconstitutionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u72	Mr. Karimansky, I'm afraid if we don't stop the exchange of lines and the diversion from the subject, we'll get to a situation like yesterday's maybe. So I propose, if there are no other speeches, that I close the discussion. I'm shutting it down and we're going to vote. I put to the vote the name of the Bill and paragraph alone. While we're voting, I'll say I'll give it a rest around 11:30. So we'll start the next bill, read the reports, and then maybe take the break. Vote 124 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 1. The bill was also adopted at second reading. And now we move on to the next item on the agenda, as we have changed it: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS. There are actually two of them by Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs; Nastimir Ananiev, Bogomil Petkov and Julia Ivanova. For your report, please come in. [[Heckling]] For a report or for a procedure? [[Heckling]] Let's present the reports first. You are welcome to present the Report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-73, submitted by Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs and a bill supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-104, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev, Bogomil Petkov and Julia Ivanova At an extraordinary meeting held on 26 July 2022, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-73, submitted by Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs on 16 June 2022 and the Draft Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-104, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev, Bogomil Petkov and Julia Ivanova on 19 July 2022. The meeting was attended by Mr. Andrey Tsekov, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivaylo Staykov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, representatives of the Public Procurement Agency, the Chamber of Builders, the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria and the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design. On behalf of the importer, the bill submitted by Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs was presented by the MP Zarko Marinov. The bill provides for a limitation of engineering in construction, which applies to construction of sites only in the cases explicitly defined by law. These are the construction of national sites for which there is no knowledge and experience in their design or technology for their construction, construction of municipal sites from third, fourth and fifth category with a period of execution up to one calendar year and construction value up to 120 thousand. lv. without VAT, as well as the construction or restoration of sites in relation to the removal of consequences of accidents, natural disasters or other force majeure. The bill submitted by Nastimir Ananiev, Bogomil Petkov and Julia Ivanova was presented by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev. The bill provides for a methodology approved by the Council of Ministers on the basis of which an indexation of public procurement contracts will be carried out. As a result of inflation, the prices of basic goods and materials have been significantly increased, resulting in a number of companies being unable to comply with the contracts concluded with the state and municipalities, as a result of which the country faces a risk of losing significant money on projects financed by EU funds. During the discussion the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, of the Chamber of Builders, of the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria and of the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design supported the bill submitted by Nastimir Ananiev, Bogomil Petkov and Yulia Ivanova, stressing the need for its adoption. Opinion in support of the Bill is provided in the Commission and by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. In support of the bill submitted by Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs, MPs from the parliamentary groups of the "Read more The Change" and "BSP for Bulgaria" and "Democratic Bulgaria" spoke, as well as representatives of the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria and of the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design. MPs from GERB-SDS' parliamentary group said they would not support the bill by putting forward the relevant arguments. Negative opinions on the bill are provided in the Commission by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and by the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government shall: - with 8 votes............................................................................................................. and 5 votes.............................................................................................................................................. With 13 votes for the public procurement law, No 47-254-01-104, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev, Bogomil Petkov and Julia Ivanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u74	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. There are also reports from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Mateev. Are you going to present both reports? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At its regular meeting held on 27 July 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-73, submitted by Ivaylo Nikolaev Mirchev and a group of MPs on 16 June 2022. The meeting was attended by: from the Public Procurement Agency Ms. Galya Manassieva and representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria and the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design. The bill was presented by the National Representative Atanas Slavov, who pointed out that it aims to ensure financial independence of the designer and construction supervision by the builder, specifying that the current legislation regulates the activities of designing and exercising construction control as part of the construction process, although they represent different activities of responsibility. It is proposed to refine the cases in which investment design and construction can be implemented through engineering in order to ensure independence between the various participants in the construction process in the realization of municipal and state sites. The National Representative noted that the leading role of the builder as a participant in public procurement gives him an advantage over the designer and construction supervision, and added that through the financial independence of the designer and the building supervisor the builder will achieve the preparation of quality projects and objective control over the implementation of the construction activities. Written observations were received on the bill. The Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria and the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria disagree with the proposed draft law and state arguments against its adoption. It is noted that the proposals contradict the objectives of the Public Procurement Act and make specific comments to the proposed texts. The Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria and the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design fully support the draft law and point out that the adoption of the proposals will achieve efficiency in the spending of public funds. The Chairmans of the Boards of Directors of the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design and the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria said that they fully support the submitted bill and clarified that the application of the current engineering system can lead to poor performance, as the designer is a delegate to the builder and in his work restricts his decisions to the capabilities of the builder. Architect Milkov added that the engineering reverses order in the investment process, as the engineer or architect should be in charge, then the builder and finally accept the site from the designer in the form of copyright supervision. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with 13 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-73, submitted by Ivaylo Nikolaev Mirchev and a group of MPs on 16 June 2022. First-vote report: At its regular meeting held on 27 July 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-104, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev, Bogomil Petkov and Julia Ivanova on 19 July 2022. The bill was presented by the National Representative Bogomil Petkov, who pointed out that it aims to address the inflation risk and pointed out that the epidemic situation, the disrupted channels of supply of raw materials and the military conflict between the Russian Federation and Ukraine are the cause of the inflation process, which in an annual average for industry is 16.36 per cent. He added that the draft law creates a legal opportunity to amend the price of a contract for public procurement as a result of inflation and covers executed and upcoming activities with subject-matter construction, repair, reconstruction, modernization, supplies and services. The indexing of contract prices is envisaged to be carried out according to a methodology approved by the Council of Ministers. The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria supports the legislative initiative and points out that the proposed changes are necessary and will contribute to regulating relations in the public procurement sector. The Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria expresses its full support for the Bill for Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, taking into account that the proposed framework is necessary and timely. During the public discussion took part from the Public Procurement Agency, the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria, the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design and the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria. The participants in the debate unanimously expressed their full support for the bill, pointing out that the proposals are necessary. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with 13 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-104, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev, Bogomil Petkov and Julia Ivanova on July 19, 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u76	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Dear colleagues, I'll give you a break until 12:00. At 12:00 will continue colleague Miroslav Ivanov, so allow me a few last words from this tribune and from me. Firstly, I would like to thank you for your joint work in this mandate. I want to wish those who are going to run again, good luck in the election. Those who will not run, success in professional development. And to those who are chosen and re-entered this Chamber in the next term of the National Assembly, let them carry the positive that there was undoubtedly, but not forget the lessons learned. Thank you and have a good summer! [[Applause.]] Holiday till 12:00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u77	Honourable Members, please take your seats, resume the sitting. Will there be an importer's opinion on this point? Mr. Ananiev. [[Reply by MP Zarko Marinov.]] Mr. Marinov, after Mr. Ananiev I will give the floor to you to present your bill. Mr. Ananiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Everyone who monitors the dynamics of what is happening in the road sector and in construction as a whole, you know that about a month ago we tried an option to solve the indexation that is needed, given the inflation pressure and what is happening around the world, of course, feels very tangible in the Bulgarian construction industry as well. We from "Keep On Changing" also had a meeting with the Chamber of Builders, where we discussed different options. With colleagues Petkov and Ivanova, we presented this proposal, which we believe is the most appropriate for the moment. We are, in fact, giving a mandate to the Council of Ministers to prepare a methodology so that it can solve the various cases of construction projects, and at least from my point of view, the focus and most importantly is the European projects, the euro funding that comes from various infrastructure projects, if it turns out that it cannot be completed because of the new inflation economic processes that are happening in both our country and Europe. Then, in fact, Bulgaria will have to return a very large volume of financial resources. We are talking about billions if we fail to complete the project, you know how European funding projects work. Of course, we leave this to the Council of Ministers to propose such a methodology, to see whether this methodology will in any way distinguish between the different types of construction sites and projects that are under the Law, or to propose a methodology, but it is necessary and I think we should accept it at two readings today in the Chamber. So, this is on me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Marinov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u80	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Engineering is a procedure in which design and construction are carried out by the same contractor, its subcontractors respectively. The logic of contracting entities when declaring a contract in engineering mode is speed and flexibility in implementation. Unfortunately, in fact, this effect is not achieved, even the opposite. The design and construction are independent activities which should be interlinked under the terms of mutual control the design sets out the parameters, the construction fulfils these parameters without the possibility to change them, and the construction supervision controls the implementation according to the Law. Where the contractor is responsible for both design and construction activities, the contractor may at any time amend the project, change the parameters, often at the expense of quality. This results in the typical Bulgarian reality of repairing the repair, corruption and procurement of public contracts, in which the design creates so many problems of the construction company that it cannot implement the contract within the time limit. It often happens that the design does not end in time, its deadline is extended and so we have a number of cases in which we lose European funds because it is not possible for the construction company to draw up the project to receive the corresponding building permits. The cost of public funds through public procurement procedures is linked to the idea of the lowest price generated by competition between the participants to perform the work awarded in accordance with an appropriate quality standard, according to art. 63 of the Public Procurement Act. The main problem in the process of engineering is the creation of financial dependence of the designer and the copyright supervision of the builder, and the builder should comply with the designer. The argument that engineering procedures shorten time limits is untenable, insofar as public interest requires quality, delay in time limits, is often available in engineering. By proposals Draft Engineering is allowed as a procedure only in certain cases that are noted in the Law when the public prerequisites and interest require it. One is when, at national level, there is no experience and knowledge in this area when it comes to small projects and a short implementation period of up to one year and the recovery of consequences from disasters and accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u81	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion. Are there any speeches? Mr. Shishkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to comment on the bill submitted by my colleagues Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs on the removal of engineering by trying to speak a little slower and clearer today, despite my diction, because it turns out that the engineers from the Chamber of Engineers in investment design did not understand me correctly and led a very sharp battle against me personally. During the Commission, I said it very clearly, and I repeat it now. Colleagues, we're not against engineering, we're not firm on it. We maintain a position that we need to make revisions so that the positive aspects of engineering can be considered and the negative aspects removed. There are certainly plenty of examples in one direction and the other. Under no circumstances would I allow myself to stand up for one House or against the other. On the contrary, I think we need to find a balanced solution. The colleagues of the House of Engineers, whom I deeply respect, although some of them, as I said, want to take away my competence, were angry because I said that this bill was probably not written by architects or engineers or lawyers. Looks like it was written by PawerPoint's IT. What we are being offered is rather an artistic narrative, and the motives for it are a presentation for an election campaign. Terminology is chaotic and does not conform in any way to the legislation in force. Conceptually, the bill is completely confused. Why? Because the definition of the concept of.... is extremely confusing. A long, vague sentence has been proposed. The only thing missing in this sentence is to finally add: "The last one to close the door! " With regard to the envisaged cases where engineering is permitted according to importers. What does it mean that knowledge and experience are not available to design and implement objects of national importance? How do you prove that? Perhaps we should consult all several thousand, perhaps tens of thousands of engineers, ask them personally whether they can implement or design the object. This is ridiculous, colleagues, and one such thesis will always be vulnerable in court. With regard to the restriction on the construction of municipal sites. You're predicting a sum of 120 grand. lv. plus a one-year deadline. However, in the Bill you have recorded "if the funding is municipal or from European funds. And what happens if it's state, I ask, which is a very common practice and why is it not provided for in the Bill? What happens to objects that exceed one lev this limit of 120 thousand. BGN, which for vague reasons is defined? Someone was looking at the ceiling and said, "I don't know, 120 thousand." lv. Who will be responsible if it becomes 121,000? lv. Like what? What will happen if the object is executed in one year and one day, as is the limitation in the Bill? Then who will be responsible for the delay of one day? What's the responsibility? It is not clear in the intended texts that you have proposed to us. By para. 3 The obligation of the performer to carry out activities that are subject to negotiation is absurd, colleagues. What if some of these documents are already drawn up, what do we do with them? We dump them in the trash can and assign them to make new ones, but according to a new procedure?! This is really absurd, which is recorded. The greatest absurdity, however, is the requirement to draw up spatial plans. Colleagues, I think that you should already be aware that the condition for starting an engineering is that there is a development plan drawn up. You are not currently offering § 2, but are offering a "Paragraph 22". By para. 4 You offer for constructions that are not engineering, competitions or tenders must be executed. Does that mean a bathroom in the center of a village worth 20,000? BGN, will there be an auction for its execution? In this way you derogate a whole section of the Public Procurement Act. Finally, on the body of the Bill, although it does not seem to me to pay such attention to it, but I think it is important, colleagues, because the notion of a control engineer under part "Constructions" in the Bulgarian legislation does not exist. Yes, this argument is insignificant, but it shows the level of colleagues who wrote this bill. And a few words about the presentation, so-called, motives. Are you really saying that you will fight corruption by including another commercial entity in the relationship between individual counterparties? That is, there will be another person to whom some payment will be negotiated with the contracting entity. This is not serious, guys. The low quality thesis of the projects is also untenable. The competence of engineers cannot be linked to their employment relationships. The quality of the projects, colleagues, depends, first of all, on the application of the norms and not on whether the engineer has signed a contract with an architectural desk, a construction company or directly with the contracting entity. The application of the norms is not controlled only by the builder, but also by the technical control, by the investor control, by the construction supervision, by the municipal administration and by the DNC. It is absurd to bind the quality of projects to employment relations. Regarding the thesis of lack of experience and qualification, in very few cases some of the best engineers in Bulgaria, you know, colleagues work in the largest construction companies. In this way they gain more experience. The same applies to new, young colleagues who also work in such companies. They also gain more self-esteem and greater qualifications thanks to their work with the more experienced. Colleagues, for the third time I repeat: I do not mind clearing the negatives of engineering, it is even necessary. As an engineer, I fully understand colleagues who want to completely eliminate engineering, but as a politician, I strongly oppose. Very few colleagues, among other things, building engineers, including former MPs, have tried to attack my conscience by saying: "You are an engineer, how can you not think about your future?" "Yes, I am an engineer, but above all, I am an engineer, and I cannot help but put the public interest above the personal interest, as many colleagues have done in this National Assembly, by the way. And in this case, the public interest is actually clear. Everything that is being built for the benefit of Bulgarian citizens must happen as quickly as possible, of course, without compromising quality. I support the idea of a detailed investigation of the problems and would support legislative initiatives to remove them, but what is currently proposed does not meet public needs. Colleagues, because of the pebble in the shoe, we're trying to throw out the whole shoe. However, if the bill is adopted in the first vote, we will make our proposals between first and second votes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u83	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Hey, guys, any lines? Here you are, Mr. Marinov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u84	Mr. Shishkov, because you, as you said, are a designer with many years of experience, I would like to ask you: if you are a public procurement entity and you need to determine the value of a construction with engineering, how will you decide at what initial value to announce this public procurement? You don't have a project, do you have a quantitative account? Or as you say, we've looked at the ceiling with the 120 grand in question. lv. And don't contracting entities look at the ceiling without a project when they announce public works contracts?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u85	Thank you, Mr. Marinov? Guys, are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Shishkov? I won't. Mrs. Trajanska, do you still want to make a statement? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, on the last plenary day I will try to speak with a restrained tone, although it is difficult for me. I will sum up the history of events, if I may call them related to the construction industry. At the beginning of April, we were all aware that problems in the construction industry were of great strength. I won't affect the problems or who caused them. At the Regional Commission at one of the first meetings in which we addressed this topic, all of our fellow Members voted unanimously that, given inflation, we must make a possible change in the Public Procurement Act so that contracting entities can index prices at that time. This proposal was tabled and was not accepted in the Chamber on 8 June. I'm not going to attack anyone with the fact that it's really our last day of captivity that they're interested in can check out who voted. A month and a half later, we make the same proposal with the same motives so that all MPs can truly understand that this is imperative. The period, the month of April, June, which I quoted at the outset, was used by our so-called coalition partners to attack us by being connected to the performers companies, by being a mafia, with all the other things that I'm even offended to say from this tribune. We had to explain ourselves to every television speech of ours, again I say, so-called coalition partners, that there is no such thing that the problem was at stake by another and we have to solve it, and this is not related to new contracts and orders, and these contracts and orders are from 2018. It may seem to you that I am detailed, but I want to hear from as many colleagues as possible, and viewers, and people, so that in the next two months we can know who did what and who did what was wrong. At least that's how I feel about it, since now I have the opportunity. I told you about our acquittal regime. Today I hope that this proposal will be voted on and that this will not be used again for how connected we are and so on, again, I say, with the mafia, as offensive as it is to say it and to unblock the investment process in the country, not to attack each other and so on. I am using this statement to say another huge problem, which the President of the Regional Commission is supposed to be trying to solve in the last few days, because, yes, you may have a personal explanation, I would even be pleased, you invite, that is, you announce a meeting of the Regional Commission with the clear awareness that BSP colleagues will not appear. Is that a wash of your guilty conscience, Mr. Ananiev? You're calling a meeting, which from last night until this morning at 8:20 p.m. at 3:00 p.m. to 20 minutes. It doesn't matter. The problem that stands with the uninvited meeting of the Regional Commission is huge. The decision on April 20th, which we all made, and we took it again as a coalition, I say again, it is difficult for us, we have put a huge problem on the table, which in the coming months I do not know how it will be solved. The people outside are on strike, I don't know how much can be decided, since the National Assembly will not work, that is, it cannot be decided. I know it can't be solved. I would like to say clearly from this tribune that from 1 October the state will not have active contracts with contractors for ongoing repair and maintenance companies, which is why I quote the people of the Association that guard, broken glass, whatever happens, God forbid, on the roads, there is no one to clean them up. I speak in very perhaps non-professional terms because I am an economist, but I really know I dare say that I know the problems, despite my short stay in the Regional Commission and my meetings with the people, the people of the branch organizations who have constantly wanted meetings with all the parliamentary groups and at the moment when no initiative in this direction has been carried out, we were worried that we might be called a mafia again. In conclusion, I will only say that we will support this change in the Public Procurement Act with the clear awareness and regret that this did not happen months ago because, as Mr. Ananiev said, a lot of money is at stake, I hope we are not too late, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Trajanska. Hey, guys, any lines? Here's a line for you, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I wondered very much whether I should take the floor. I decided as a line so I wouldn't make a statement I saw the pain in Mrs. Trajanska's voice and eyes, and indeed on June 9 we rejected, in fact a parliamentary group of coalitions, the former one, rejected this bill, did not vote for it, and it is. Therefore, I would like to turn now with this reply to the "Democratic Bulgaria" and ask: what has changed things from June 9th to today and you have thus turned to 180 degrees your opinion, since already then the law could be adopted, to give a legal opportunity to index the public procurement contracts, according to the Methodology, and at the moment we have to change the law in violation of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, which you of the 45th Parliament claim that we must respect all the principles of the rule of law and work in a new way. At the moment, this law does not have any amendments with the one tabled on 13 May. The only difference is that Methodics will be adopted by the Council of Ministers and not approved by the Rules of Law Enforcement. There are no changes in the motives in a definite violation of art. 78 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly has not passed the three-month period after its rejection. Therefore, fellow Members of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, I appeal to you: what has changed in these two months? We will strongly support this bill, which has been tabled by us, by our colleagues from "We are continuing the Change" and our colleagues from BSP. Is that why you didn't support him because you weren't importers?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u89	Mrs. Miteva, you're making a point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u90	No, I'm not making a point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u91	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u92	Is that why, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u93	You know better than that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u94	...you should call us a mafia in this period, and now you want to be in white and want to make and take populist decisions to look good in the eyes of voters. I think this law is a lesson for all of us that politicians should think first about people and business and not about making populist politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Like I said, you made a statement, that wasn't a line. [[Reply of MP Iva Miteva.]] Now the colleagues from the "Democratic Bulgaria" will have to reply to you in a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u96	Let's, let's! I do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u97	Apart from that, I remind you that at the Chairman's Council today, we have decided to follow the good tone, not to have political attacks.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u98	Let them answer to know.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u99	Your speech was, in fact, contrary to this decision that we reached today at the Presidential Council. About the replica, Mr. Hristo Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u100	Mr. Ivanov, thank you. As it turns out, good manners are a very thin layer that is easily lost, you see. Mrs. Miteva, you could have asked me personally and I could have answered that question. What has changed is the political circumstances. Maybe we still had the hope that some rational process of making better decisions could be built. Now this window has closed politically and we have to make decisions that may not be optimal at the moment, but are now only possible. Because politics aside from compliance with the Rules, which is very important, is also reporting reality, and there is no escape from this thing. We are in a series of crises that require complex and overlapping extreme and extreme solutions. Part of the crisis is a political, severe crisis that we are simply incapable of political class and here I am not trying to distinguish myself from producing good solutions. We are making mistakes with pretend solutions. Each solution creates a new problem and so on, and we are trapped in this thing and as I see it, we have no will to get out of it. In this situation today, on the last day of parliament, this is probably the possible solution, although it has not become more optimal since May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there gonna be a third line? Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! In the spirit of good tone, we could, when discussing this topic in June, if memory serves, in the previous bill submitted, have very clear statements and clear statements about what a pragmatic lameness of the law that we have tabled. This isn't just about politics, Mr. Ivanov. Here is a question of pragmatism and of arguments indeed. If there were such arguments, such a thorough argument of why you did not accept the law or at least have expressed a negative vote. Because, notice, there is not a single statement in this House.. not a single statement from.. Democratic Bulgaria.... or those who voted against the law, how did you motivate your negative vote, with what motives? Nobody saw a single motive for this thing. I say again: it is not a matter of changing the political situation, it is a question of solving people's problems, not from the political prism, but from the prism of pragmatism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u103	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. For the back, Mrs. Trajanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will start from the back to the back and perhaps this will run out of all three lines. Mr. Karimansky, I'll tell you what the pragmatism is. It consists of hypocrisy. Because when we were in a coalition and our coworkers coalition partners stopped every reasonable suggestion with our motives, we'll repeat for the nth time the mafia, and it was a prop that expired and in the record that one of them was white, and one was the mafia, it, this prop, ended, I saw who it was. It actually ran out of pragmatism. I mean, taking advantage of one problem, I'm saying again, at stake in time, it's not my job to say who, what. There are other institutions to say whose problem is the problem, who's the one who put the problem at stake. It's everyone's problem, our whole society's problem. This has been used for two months. I don't know how much, to be blamed, offended and so on, I say again, by our so-called coalition partners. To date, I stand, I can say, proudly raised forehead, that we of the "There is such a people" do not have a guilty conscience who has it to look for its reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Trajanska. Statements? Mr. Yordanov, please, both to you and to all colleagues, however, to observe today perhaps at the last session a good tone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u106	Mr. Chairman, thank you, first of all, for giving me the floor. Secondly, whether it is the first or the last sitting does not matter, it is what is said by this tribune. As the last meeting and last day of this Parliament, I would like to welcome you: welcome to the Mafia, DB and PP! Because something they explained was a mafia deal, now they're offering it again, that is, they offer it with great enthusiasm and will support it, so welcome to the Mafia 100% white!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u107	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Hey, guys, any lines? I won't. For a statement? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u108	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the topic of the indexing of prices in construction only 500 meters from the building of the National Assembly is located an object which was financed under the Operational Program "Regions in Growth" and a colleague from here made a first hole and the former Prime Minister cut the ribbon. The project was worth four million. It was funded by two million. Six hundred thousand. lv. and it was finished. The situation is identical. Just to say that most projects will be completed poorly, with unfulfilled construction works and with a lot of PR. So indexing has been necessary since October, when at ICN we put it as something mandatory for the construction business, but its non-acceptance does not mean that the objects will not be completed means that they will be completed poorly. With regard to engineering, the most striking example of corruption with engineering was the so-called Energy Efficiency Programme of GERB, where some of the prices reached maybe 200 However, engineering was created as a mechanism that optimizes time. I wanted to say this because in the preliminary and pre-project research, sufficient information is given, and the design is only in the third stage. I personally believe that engineering should not be limited so extremely, because this means that we have to rely on the investment project to be of very high quality, and in practice it is not. As the previous stages in Bulgaria are underestimated, it comes to a stage where, at some point, the designers and builders have to work in better synchronization and when they are in a separate contract, this is not always the case. So in terms of engineering should not be written off, it is the opinion of the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria that it is rather a practical mechanism than a theoretical one. Of course, the arguments for time limits in construction, the deadlines are determined by one set of ZOPs, by ZUT and rather by Decree No 3 to it, so that the removal or limitation of engineering will not solve the problem of time limits in construction or quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u109	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Hey, guys, any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-73, submitted by Ivaylo Nikolaev Mirchev and a group of MPs on 16 June 2022. They voted 110 MPs: 27, Against 55, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. Would you like a re-vote, fellow Members? It's a re-vote. They voted 114 MPs: 25, against 64, abstention 25. With this, the bill was not adopted in the first vote. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-104, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs on 19 July 2022. Vote 148 MPs: 137, against 3, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Is there going to be a re-election? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u110	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u111	Procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Yordanov, let's hear it. Mr. Mateev and you want the floor? Okay, then. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u112	I want it in the way of conduct, Mr. Chairman. You have made a remark to the entire House that this is an extremely mafia law and you must get us on the right track, especially your parliamentary group. So, if you could correct yourself now, because this is extremely mafia, in the words of your parliamentary group, your former prime minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u113	Mr. Yordanov, what's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u114	... Your former minister of finance and the former spokeswoman of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u115	Okay. Mr. Mateev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am proposing on the grounds of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be dealt with in a second vote in today's plenary sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u117	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 147 MPs: 140, against 3, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, who will introduce us to the bill of second votes? Mr. Mateev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE supplementing the Public Procurement Act § 1. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 117a, with the name of the method for changing the price of a contract for public service contracts in the event of a call for service. Art. 117a. (1) In the cases referred to in art. 116, para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 3 amendment of the price of a contract as a result of inflation, where the prices of basic goods and materials forming the value of the contract are substantially increased, is carried out according to a methodology approved by an act of the Council of Ministers. (2) When in the cases referred to in art. 116, para. 1, t. 1 The contracting entity provides for a price adjustment clause in relation to inflation under para. 1, he can bind this clause to the methodology under para. 1. Transitional and final provisions § 2. The methodology of art. 117a, para. 1 shall also apply when amending contracts for public contracts or framework agreements on the basis of art. 116, para. 1, t. 2 and 3 concluded before the entry into force of this law. § 3. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u119	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion. Are there any speeches? Colleagues, there is something to be specified about the application of an editorial amendment. Mrs. Miteva, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I just want to make a legal and technical correction to be: Art. 1 is created. 117a: To be placed two points and the method for amendment of the price of the contract for public service contracts in the event of an increase is to be the title of art. 117a, start the dick before the quote goes straight.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u121	I mean, after the name...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u122	Article 2 is created. 117a: " and before that, the title is placed "Metodics for..." as proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u123	The text with the name is removed and after 117 there are two points.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u124	Yes, there are two points and the text falls down before art. 117a.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u125	Okay. Guys, are there any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. First of all, I put to the vote the editorial amendment made by Mrs Miteva, namely: § 1 to be amended and to appear as follows: ................................................................................... The text with the name and the text to be followed shall be removed in a new row. We are voting for Mrs. Eva Miteva's editorial amendment. They voted 143 MPs: 136 against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote: the name of the bill; § 1 with the version already adopted; the name of the division; § 2, as read by Mr. Mateev and by importer; and § 3 as by importer. The same applies to the name of the Bill and the name of the subdivision which are also by importer. They voted 145 MPs: 139 against 5, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The bill of the second vote has also been adopted. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECTS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL PROCEEDING CODEX. Importers: the Council of Ministers on 1 July 2022; and Petar Kyosev on 5 July 2022. Two reports have been submitted by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I'm guessing the two bills are separate reports? Mr. Stoev, come in. You have the floor to present them. Colleagues, the reports are not very long.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 47-202-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 July 2022. At its regular meeting held on 20 July 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 47-202-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 July 2022. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Julia Kovacheva, Deputy Minister, Ms. Galina Dimitrova and Mrs. Diana Boeva, State experts in the Department of Law and by the Supreme Judicial Council Mr. Boyan Novanski, Member; and by the Supreme Council of Laws Dr. Ivaylo Dermendzhiev, Chairman. The bill was presented by Mrs. Kovacheva, who pointed out that its adoption will ensure the construction and maintenance of an electronic information system of the supports in the Republic of Bulgaria. The introduction of a single entry point providing centralised real-time information on registered movable objects is proposed. It added that the establishment of the information system would ensure timely notification to interested parties in the imposition or lifting of a detention, as well as in changing the circumstances recorded, thereby increasing security in the civil turnover and optimizing enforcement on movable items. The support of the Bill will ensure the provision of electronic administrative services to each person subject to the requirements of the Law on Electronic Governance and will provide free access by service to the state and municipal administration, as well as to persons performing public functions. It is envisaged that the information system serving the supports, the electronic public sale module and the electronic exchange of information with the other registers will function on the basis of a common information system, the conditions and procedure for the activities of which will be laid down in a regulation of the Ministry of Justice. A written statement from the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors has been received under the Bill, expressing support for legislative proposals. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. During the public discussion of the bill, Dr. Ivaylo Dermendzhiev expressed the positive opinion of the Supreme Council of Laws on legislative proposals. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, with 14 votes for the Constitutional Code, No 47-202-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 July 2022, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code, No 47-202-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 July 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u127	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. Are you going to present the second report as well? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u128	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 47-254-01-87, submitted by Peter Vassilev Kosev on 5 July 2022. At its regular meeting on 20 July 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 47-254-01-87, submitted by Peter Vassilev Kosev on 5 July 2022. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Justice Mrs. Julia Kovacheva Deputy Minister; Mrs. Galina Dimitrova and Mrs. Diana Boeva State experts in the Department of Law and by the Supreme Judicial Council Mr. Boyan Novanski Member; and by the Supreme Council of Laws Dr. Ivaylo Dermenjiev Chairman. The bill was presented by the National Representative Petar Kosev, who indicated that it proposed a delay in the action of those who entered on 30 June 2021 in force, providing for an obligation for the courts to issue and issue acts, to carry out procedural actions and statements and to communicate in electronic form. He clarified that at present the Single e-Justice Portal does not provide a technical opportunity for secure, reliable and accessible electronic service and added that the security, reliability and effectiveness of the Single Information System of the Courts is directly linked to the functioning of the Single Portal. Mr. Kosev noted that the draft law provides the necessary time for the Supreme Judicial Council to introduce the Single e-Justice Portal in order to ensure legal certainty in the issuing of legal acts, the service of communications and documents, as well as the security of the procedural statements of the parties in electronic form. The Bill received a written statement from the Ministry of Justice in support of the proposed amendments. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Ms. Kovacheva, Dr. Dermendzhiev and Mr. Novanski took part in the public discussion of the Law. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Laws, Mr. Dermendzhiev expressed a positive opinion on the bill. Mr. Novanski pointed out that the Supreme Judicial Council supports the proposed postponement of the requirement for electronic service and electronic correspondence with lawyers, traders and legal entities through the Single Portal for Electronic Justice. He expressed reservations about the proposed suspension of the work of the Single Information System of the Courts, specifying that the Single Information System of the Courts is used only by judges, is implemented and works effectively. Mr. Novanski added that it distributes cases, takes into account the workload of courts and carries out the legal system, as well as communication with 38 modules. He added that the work of the Single Information System of the Courts is a condition for the application of the Supreme Judicial Council on the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and other European projects. Ms. Kovacheva pointed out that she supports the proposed delay in the process of introducing e-Justice in order to ensure legal certainty of judicial acts. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, with 14 votes for the Constitutional Code, No 47-254-01-87, submitted by Peter Vasilev Kösev on 5 July 2022, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Civil Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u129	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. Dear colleagues, will there be an opinion on an importer on any of the bills? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly as regards the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code tabled by me. Colleagues, it is a well-known fact that the Single e-Justice Portal is currently not functioning according to its purpose. The same at this time does not allow for procedural actions and supporting statements, the identity of the electronic file in cases is missing and does not provide for the intended access to service of communications and subpoenas in the proper order. The truth is that the module that connects the Single E-Justice Portal and the Single Information System is not ready yet. However, in June this year, changes to the GPC came into force, which provide for obligations to accept procedural applications in electronic form, as well as mandatory e-service through the EMPLOYMENT, and all communications are deemed completed, whether they have been withdrawn from the lawyer's profile. However, at the same time, I repeat, the system is not technically secured and this could create an extremely high risk to legal peace. Thus, these technical deficits, both on the Single e-Justice Portal and the ESS, do not allow participants in the process to exercise the professional rights granted to them and put at risk the legal order in order to ensure the implementation of an electronic form of fit procedural statements. In view of all the above, I present to you this bill, together with proposals to amend the related legislation, which will postpone the functioning of the provisions relating to the Single e-Justice Portal to remedy the problems. At the same time, Paragraph 5 of the Bill provides that all legal procedural acts carried out until the entry into force of the Bill retain their effect. In view of the foregoing, I ask for your support of the presented bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u131	Thank you, Mr. Kyosev. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion. Are there any statements on either of the two bills? Mrs. Alexandrova, come in. I'm glad to see you in the gym, and I hope you're in good health. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u132	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for being here. My speech will be very brief. With regard to the first draft bill submitted by the Council of Ministers, our parliamentary group, GERB-SDS, will support the submitted bill. As already in the Forty-fourth National Assembly it was GERB-SDS that launched the Single Entry Point. With regard to this bill, the work continues and we are happy with that fact. Regarding the bill of colleague Kyosev. We will not support the submitted bill, and that is precisely in its second part, and I would like to express from this tribune that the time will not be enough, but most likely in the next National Assembly we will submit a proposal for its dismissal, because the Single Information System of the Courts is working well, it is used by judges, it is implemented and it works effectively, as Mr Novanski said during the Law Commission, in which, unfortunately, I was not able to attend. It is for this reason that, in this part of the proposal, this will hinder the work of many of the judges, the judiciary and all those involved in the process. For this reason, our parliamentary group will not support this bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any lines, coworkers? I won't. Any other speeches? Madam Minister, would you like to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the importer, I ask you to support the proposed bill by the Council of Ministers to amend and supplement the Civil Procedure Code. It is small as volume, but at the same time will have a major impact on business turnover, as it will also allow transparency in real time to see the supports imposed on movable items with registration, i.e. cars, trucks and other vehicles. Why do I insist that this happens quickly, because the software is actually ready. It was developed together with the software for electronic auctions and, in fact, what is waiting is the National Assembly to adopt this amendment so that it can really start using these new opportunities. I would like to use the stands and thank my colleagues from the Ministry of Electronic Governance, who have been very cooperative in order to have a precise text before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u135	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Colleagues, any comments, but can I ask you one last time? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Honourable Members, first of all, I will put to the vote a Bill supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 47-202-01-35, importer of the Council of Ministers on 1 July 2022. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. That's how the offer is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 47-254-01-87, submitted by Peter Vassilev Kosev on 5 July 2022. They voted 125 MPs: for 69, against 35, abstention 21. With this, the bill was adopted in the first vote. Revoting, fellow Members! They voted 110 MPs: 54, against 37, abstention 19. That's why the offer isn't accepted. For the procedure "Milen Mateev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am proposing on the grounds of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure should be discussed and voted on in the second vote, the newly adopted Bill supplementing the Civil Procedure Code submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u137	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. That's how the offer is accepted. Mr. Stoev, you have the floor to introduce us to the text of the Second Voting Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u138	THE LAW OF THE supplementing the Civil Procedure Code § 1. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 450b: A single point of entry for props Art. 450b. (1) The Ministry of Justice shall build and maintain an information system for a single entry point for the support of movable objects subject to registration under law. The arrangements for keeping, storing and accessing the information system shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 501a, para. 6. (2) The Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Ministry of Agriculture shall exchange electronically with the information system under para. 1 information on movable items subject to registration in their registers under law. (3) Forensic contractors shall be obliged to enter data into the information system under para. 1. A qualified electronic time stamp shall be used for each security entered within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No (4) The data may be submitted automatically by the information systems used by the relevant court contractors. The data shall be submitted in order and in a format defined by the ordinance under para. 1. (5) Access to the information system by official means of the public authorities, the local authorities and the local administration and public functions shall be free of charge. (6) On the basis of those contained in the information system under para. 1 data The Ministry of Justice shall provide electronic administrative services for the notification of the imposed retention and for the provision of references for the imposed postures of each person, subject to the requirements of the Law on Electronic Governance. The services are declared through the electronic portal of the Ministry of Justice. (7) To provide services, the Ministry of Justice shall collect fees in amounts determined by a tariff of the Council of Ministers. § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 501a, para. 5 a comma is finally placed and added which includes a register of public tenders and a system for holding public tenders. Final provisions § 3. Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law: 1. The Council of Ministers shall adopt the amendments and additions to Tariff No 1 to the State Fees Act for fees collected by the courts, prosecution, investigation services and the Ministry of Justice resulting from this Act. 2. The Minister of Justice shall issue the ordinance under art. 450b, para. 1. § 4. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code (prom., SG No. 86 from 2017) , in § 72 para. Two is canceled. The law was passed by the 47th National Assembly 2022 and is stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u139	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We supported the Bill at first reading, as the idea of having an information system similar to the already existing one in terms of real estate, in which we.. free-standing entities can make inquiries, obtain copies, even by acts, and receive certificates, so that the idea of the existence of such an information system and of movable items in the part of allowing notification of props on movable items, as well as making references, is really good. That is why we supported the Bill. With regard to its adoption of a second vote, I would like to make an editorial amendment that will in no way change the meaning of the bill. She's motivated by the following. Until al. 5 of art. 450b is precisely settled the question of which public authorities will have the right to access, and it is even settled that it is free, it is not explicitly settled the right of access of all individuals concerned who would be interested in consulting themselves by this information system. Therefore, Mr President, with this statement I would like to make an editorial addition. In § 1 of the Bill, in art. 450b, para. 1 sentence 2 where, at the end of the sentence, a comma is placed instead of a point and the following text is added: In other words, when setting up this regulation to arrange for the use and access to the information system, simply to respect the principle of the right of access and of individuals other than public authorities, I say again, who are interested in making inquiries. In no way do I believe that this editorial amendment does not change the meaning of the Bill, but merely guarantees the right of all citizens, anyone interested to make a reference for a claim and be able to register, and is currently possible in the Property Register, in the electronic system of the Property Register to be able to make inquiries. So, Mr. President, I ask you to put this editorial amendment to the vote, and I hope that the people's representation will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u141	Mr. Petrov, just to be clear:
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u142	With an interest of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u143	"To those interested in................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u144	Exactly. Only those who are interested in making a reference should they be able to access it, not any person. As it is now in the Property Register.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u145	But how is that interpreted, Mr. Petrov? I'm not sure that... Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. Any other speeches? Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I'm calling off the discussion, colleagues. My fellow Members, I put to the vote in the first place the so-called procedural proposal made by Mr. Peter Petrov: In § 1, in art. 450b, para. 1 at the end of the second sentence, instead of point, a comma shall be placed and the following text shall be added: Yes, Mr. Karimansky. We're already in voting mode. In this regard, do you want a procedure? Okay. Before the vote we hear Mr. Karimanski about the procedure please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let, when we make editorial proposals, those who have a private interest make a statement from this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u147	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Once again, I am voting on the proposal made by Mr. Peter Petrov: In § 1, in art. 450b, para. 1 at the end of the second sentence, instead of point, a comma shall be placed and the following text shall be added: They voted 125 MPs: 112 against 5, abstention 8. That's how the offer is accepted. Now, colleagues, I put to the vote the name of the Import Bill, as read by Mr. Stoev, § 1 with the editorial amendment already adopted and in the rest, as is the text of the importer, § 2 as it is by importer and as it was read by Mr. Stoev, the name of the division and § 3 and § 4 again by importer, as were read by Mr. Stoev. They voted 133 MPs: 133, no opposition and no abstentions. With this, the proposal is adopted and the Second Voting Bill. Thank you, Madam Minister, for being here today. Colleagues, let me just announce what's next. Back to point eight: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE COMMERCIAL LAW, where a discussion is to be held. After closing this point, colleagues, again, as we spoke at the Presidency Council and what Mrs Atanasova proposed at the beginning of the meeting, we will start with declarations from the parliamentary groups, there will be a final speech of the President, and this will end today's plenary session. All right, folks, I'm opening the discussion on item eight. Are there any speeches? Mr. Kosev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The French poet and publicist Victor Hugo has repeatedly said that there is nothing stronger than an idea whose time has come. I would add that in order for an idea to come, you have to give it a chance. Now imagine that you have an idea in which a potential investor from Italy wants to invest by buying shares in your company without having to seek certification of content of a share transfer contract, which Italy's legal system does not allow. Imagine that you have an idea in which a potential investor from France wants to invest, but for which you must use the heavy and complex structure of the shareholder company and the weak financial burden of 50 thousand. lv. Starting capital, which is very often almost impossible for start-ups. Imagine an idea around which you can attract highly qualified personnel not for remuneration, but for a real opportunity for future participation in this company. Now imagine that this idea can be developed not in Britain, Poland and Austria, but in Bulgaria. I present to your attention the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law, which aims to introduce in the Bulgarian legal peace the figure of a company with variable capital. The variable capital company combines in itself the best and working structures of the limited liability company and the limited liability company by placing a particular focus on the company contract and the freedom of negotiation. The figures of the variable capital company in this way may respond to all specifics relating to the activities of innovative and start-up-oriented campaigns, and in particular the specific proposals which are made with the proposed bill, are not to require a minimum capital threshold and as such it is not subject to entry into the Trade Register. This will greatly ease start-ups and start-ups. Privileges, special rules and obligations, as well as the possibility of concluding convertible loan contracts, which are known mechanisms and widely used throughout Europe and the world, are provided for and allow the exercise of rights specific to the risks of capital investment. A real legal instrument is also introduced, namely the option by which highly qualified employees can subsequently acquire shares in the company's capital. There are various forms of management of the company that will make business as much easier as possible in its choice of structure and management. A compulsory conversion of the variable capital company is also envisaged when the same does not meet the requirements for a micro- and small enterprise within the meaning of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act. This introduces appropriate guarantees that the company in question will not be a major legal figure in the commercial turnover but will in practice be a real instrument for stimulating investments. All these innovations aim to stimulate precisely innovative and based small companies. Such legal figures have historically proven to be successful and widely used throughout Europe, where in areas such as Fintech, BioTech, RegTech are an indispensable part of the economy. The European Economic and Social Committee has repeatedly stressed that small enterprises are the backbone of the European economy and that they are the main source of jobs in which business ideas bloom. In this regard, honourable Members, I ask you for your support of the so presented bill in order to contribute as legislators of good business ideas in Bulgaria to their time and to give them a chance to bloom. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u149	Thank you, Mr. Kyosev. I'm opening the discussion, colleagues. Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to say that we are in principle in favour of this initiative and the creation of the Cohesive Capital Society figure, so that we can make it as easy as possible and create opportunities to set up startups, especially when we are talking about the development of different sectors, preserving intellectual property and, in particular, software and giving opportunities to attract new capital. However, I believe that it is necessary to further refine the texts that have been made in the presented bill, especially when we are talking about the definition of micro and small enterprises, which is quite widely described in the law, and it is necessary, since we are creating the specific shape of the variable capital company, to highlight and to have a definition of what is micro and small enterprises within the meaning of the proposal made and therefore of variable capital, so that various malicious actions can be avoided, for example, in general. It is also necessary to make further changes to the proposed bill related to the control of the announcement and when variable capital should be announced so that everything can be done transparently again and for the benefit of business and society. In order not to waste any more time, I would like to state once again our principled support for the bill and we are ready for talks to discuss and find such common wordings in the proposed bill so that they are beneficial to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A revolution in the Commercial Law! The current bill is the long-awaited response to the needs of the Bulgarian startup industry. In its current form, the Commercial Law has proved too conservative to meet the needs of the modern business environment and the new reality and structure of companies. The proposed changes set up an entirely new type of company, a variable capital company which essentially combines part of the arrangement of the shareholder company and the limited liability company. It is provided the possibility for start-ups to use flexible forms of investment that the Commercial Act provides for public limited liability companies. The raising of capital is a major challenge for start-ups and our role is to create a legal framework that allows this to happen effectively and flexibly. The new type of company is regulated in a liberal way so as to ensure the necessary contractual freedom, given the variety of activities and types of structures characteristic of start-ups. This legislative approach also aims to reduce the administrative burden of startups so that they can focus their efforts on creating a sustainable product and attracting investors. A distinctive feature of the new type of company is the lack of obligations to enter capital and partners in the Commercial Register. This allows the capital and participants in the company to be changed quickly and flexibly to the needs of the business. Some of the good European practices for the disposal mechanisms of shares, including through the possibility for company employees to acquire shares, have also been adopted. The transfer of shares is arranged by means of a simplified form of a written contract with the certification of the signature. There is no minimum value per share provided for in the law, as it is permissible to create shares with different rights and privileges. The bill was drawn up in accordance with the needs of Bulgarian entrepreneurs with the support of the Bulgarian Startup Association. It allows us to establish Bulgaria's role as a centre for innovation in Southeast Europe. The reform is part of the national recovery and sustainability plan. This reform is an example of the road to building a sustainable, working and modern Bulgarian economy. I am grateful that, despite all the differences of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, it was able to reach agreement on this so important reform and revolutionary law. Laws like this give me the hope that even the fiercest rivals can shake hands in agreement when the total well-being of the Bulgarian society is on the table. I wish that there would be more laws like this and more reasons for them to work together in the next National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u153	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. Momchil Ivanov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! At our attention on the last day of the work of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, a bill is presented, which, at least in my opinion, represents one of the most serious legislative initiatives, one of the most serious legislative amendments proposed in the work of this Parliament. The offering of the establishment of a sixth-by-type trading company in the Commercial Law really represents a revolution in the Commercial Law. After 1990, when the Commercial Law was restored, in its German-legal permits during its Hungarian editorials, in practice such a serious amendment to the Commercial Law has not been proposed. It is symbolic that such a serious change of legislation takes place on the last day of the work of the National Assembly. Yes, I agree with my colleague Mitev that it is likely that the moment has come when our trade legislation should be broken, we should escape the conservative permits that are enshrined in it, in view of the new social realities and economic processes that are taking place both in Bulgaria and globally. But, fellow Members, note that when we talk about such a serious change in legislation, we should always very carefully analyse all the texts that are being proposed. Indeed, the proposed new trading company has taken some of the authorisations concerning the limited liability company's arrangements and some of the permissions of the limited liability company. However, it has not been said here that the most substantial change that is being made and introduced is actually taken by the Co-operatives Act, since the permission to not enter the capital of this company is actually taken by the Co-operatives Act. Yes, Bulgaria needs to change trade legislation. At the working meetings we held, I expressed the basic opinion of our parliamentary group that we are basically for the adoption of such a change, in principle for the support of business and the introduction of opportunities to introduce new forms to help these start-ups in Bulgaria. However, I have spoken with some civilists, professors in this matter, who have agreed on the issue of whether such a radical change should be introduced with the adoption and creation of a new kind of trading company, or these changes should be made with some amendments to the legislation in force by touching some of the texts concerning the shareholder company and the limited liability company. Regarding whether we should rush into the last day of the work of this National Assembly and hasten to propose that these texts be adopted at second reading. My personal opinion is that this should not happen. To the working groups, the coalitions that we had, I had proposed specific texts for change to be included in the so proposed bill. I did not see them included. However, colleagues, I think it should not be, and from the point of view of not turning this serious legislative change into a hostage of some political and conjunctural reasons, because today is the last day of the work of this National Assembly, it should be the reasons why we should hasten to submit the texts to the second vote. By itself, motivating such amendments by the last day of the National Assembly's work means that we are turning these serious changes into a hostage of some political situation or conjuncture. That's why I think that yes, we have to give a sign to business, we have to give a sign to society. Therefore, our parliamentary group at first reading will support these texts. Naturally, if today is the last day of the National Assembly's work, there will be no time to make such changes and proposals at second reading, but our opinion is that there is a need for such proposals, which is why we will abstain in relation to this the bill to be supported at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u155	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, I'm gonna wait a few seconds to get my colleagues back in the room. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Commercial Law, No 47-254-01-70, submitted by Petar Vassilev Kosev and a group of MPs on 15 June 2022. Colleagues, we can then proceed to the declarations by parliamentary groups, and I note once again that the Conference of Presidents agreed that the declarations should be made in order in view of the size of the parliamentary groups. We will start with the Change Continue, GERB-SDS, Movement for Rights and Freedoms, BSP for Bulgaria and there is such a people, Democratic Bulgaria and the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Revival. They voted 123 MPs: 119, none, abstention 4. The bill was passed in the first vote. Dear colleagues, as I have said, we are continuing the Change. Mr. Ghurov, before you begin, my colleagues, I would ask for silence in this Chamber. Let us have tolerance to every single declaration by a parliamentary group, indeed without voices, without banging on banks. Let the last 40 minutes pass within and under the sign of good tone. Mr. Gurov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, dear compatriots! The life of this parliament is over. It was one of the more violent and dramatic parliaments. After all, the forty-seventh National Assembly was facing numerous crises, the bombs planted in road construction, the high prices of electricity, the CIVID pandemic, Putin's war and its consequences. Bulgarian citizens know what we have done in these seven months. People know that their electricity bills didn't change when they jumped all over Europe. They know we've adopted a plan to deal with the pandemic, which allowed us not to shut down the business and overload the health care system. They know we've increased pensions so that elderly people can live a more dignified life. They know we've raised the salaries of medical staff and teachers. They know that we have adopted an anti-crisis package of measures so that people can go easier through the crisis caused by the war. They know we've managed to deal with a number of refugees we've never seen before. People know that these measures made Bulgaria the top in the growth of industrial production throughout the European Union. People know that we have stopped the schemes of Captain Andreevo, we have stopped thefts in the post office. Despite the worst global inflation, war and political crisis, Bulgaria has done well in these seven terrible months. This is a small part of what was done in an emergency environment. Could we have done more? We believe that Bulgaria can do much more. The truth is, however, that big changes are made when you have enough deputies who want them to happen. And were there enough MPs in this parliament to want Bulgaria to take the path of change? There wasn't, ladies and gentlemen. There is no anti-corruption majority in this Parliament. Corruption hasn't found enough enemies in this building. I'm talking about the craftsmen here in parliament, the unrivalled professionals, those who can't live in opposition, because that's when they pour out. From the parliamentary tribune they played their favorite game The thief shouts: We've heard all sorts of absurdities, blatant manipulations, threats and lies. We also heard the words: "Don't touch organized crime! " Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, your dislike for change, your resistance to the fight against corruption has clearly shown us one thing: everything we have done, everything we have had to endure, has been worth it. But because of your gymnastics, Bulgaria continues to struggle, so we still do not have a reformed Anti-Corruption Commission, so there is no effective prosecution, so there is no so-called justice. Therefore, most regulators are incompetent and are a symbol of the service of the Mafia and cartels. Yesterday, the closure of the bat called the Special Justice Council came into effect, unfortunately, not before Peevski washed again on his last day of work. We voted on the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, which provided the independent work of European prosecutors. We have made a number of more important legal changes. Every day of this parliament was a chance to do something good for Bulgaria, but it has already become clear that within this mandate we cannot fully implement what people have sent us here to change the Borisov model and restore the legality. But on the other hand, we are going to elections with experience, with lessons learned, with knowledge of what we will face, with ideas on how to be more successful and more effective. Probably the next parliament will be difficult, but we will not back down from stopping the corrupt taps and directing the funds to the Bulgarian citizens, to the Bulgarian business, to the Bulgarian pensioners, doctors, nurses and teachers, to the thousands of conscientious policemen, firefighters and civil servants, such as there are many in Bulgaria. We will again seek support from the people for all of this. We believe that in the next term we will be able to achieve more, much more for free and prosperous Bulgaria. That is why we address Bulgarian citizens - dear compatriots, vote in the upcoming elections! Everything so far has only been a first step in the fight to pull the state out of the hands of the mob. Democracy is not a sprint, it's a marathon. Democracy is worth it. Democracy is the only guarantee for the prosperity of Bulgaria. This battle belongs to every Bulgarian citizen here and abroad and we can and must win it together. We need you to complete the judicial reform, have independent regulators and stop the thefts so we can have a strong, rich country to be proud of! Help us restore normality, restore meaning to words such as morality, honesty and integrity. We owe it to our kids. We're continuing the change! [[The People's Representatives from.. We continue the Change.......................... the Change. is happening........................................................... Long applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u157	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Colleagues from the group of GERB-SDS.. Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u158	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The forty-seventh National Assembly completes its work. The government of the quadruple coalition lasted six months before its inevitable collapse. The first parliamentary majority in history in 32 years has endured six months, and the first to be cast out with a vote of mistrust. What does this government leave behind? Clearly and unambiguously, the team has proved to be amateurs! The crowd can be run by text messages, but the crowd can't control. Amateurs leave broken state institutions, wild fury, corruption schemes, railings, bats, dadjans, devastated parliamentaryism with bars, brutal violation of the rule of law and zero tolerance to the Constitution! They leave an energy crisis, a lack of basic energy resources, a lack of alternative gas supplies, frightening electricity and fuel prices, semi-false state-owned energy supply companies, broken supply chains, intermediaries installed intentionally to use the created energy crisis and squeeze the last money of Bulgarian enterprises and Bulgarian citizens. They're leaving an energy collapse. The energy crisis is leading an economic crisis, and if it is not contained urgently, you know very well what is next. There's an economic collapse, a mass bankruptcy of businesses and thousands of unemployed on the street. After the economic collapse will follow the collapse of social systems. In addition, the government of Kiril Petkov leaves the damage to Bulgaria's foreign policy image, which will be calculated and the correction of the consequences will take years. To mention only the repeated return of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and our discrediting to the European Commission, the shameful seizures for military aid to Ukraine, the dual policy on the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the speculative involvement of the authority of our external partners with internal political intrigues and corruption schemes. I remind you of Gemcorp. The insults to the dignity of our country vouched for the Prime Minister and his co-workers abroad for a dinner. Years, years will take to wash this foreign policy strip and restore at least the dignity of our country, which Kiril Petkov so mercilessly destroyed. However, none of these crises would have spread on such a scale if the terrible political crisis in which our country had been thrown over all of them had been lifted over them in the last two years. This crisis began when you, under the fist, decided that you would declare war on the political party GERB, and GERB party should be erased or scraped from the political map of Bulgaria. We've been through it all, the hate, the suggestion, the insults, the hugging, the arrests, but who and what words did you say, convinced, pressed, texted you? Who told you that you should face 650 thousand Bulgarians and hate them? Will you try to remember who these persons are, who these names are or nicknames that whispered to you how you should hate the GERB party, hate its members, want to hug and destroy everyone. Will you remember who taught you the words to insult us, to blaspheme us, to slander us from this tribune? And most importantly, will you understand that hatred for us has grown into hatred for yourself, turned into hatred between you, into hatred for everyone? Did you find out how she ate you from the inside out the wonderful Coalition of Change? Did you feel her devastating power? Yes, your hatred ended, not the opposition. And if you haven't realized it, then know that your real problem is really hatred and it can bring you down. But, my dear, that is not our satisfaction. Our satisfaction was given to us by the judiciary of Bulgaria, which did not allow lawlessness to rule. Our satisfaction was given by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria and those courts which annulled and declared the unconstitutional and illegal successive acts of the government of Kiril Petkov. In the right country, greater humiliation and greater punishment, but also a stronger assessment of the work of a government and one majority of this is not. GERB resisted, resisted all blows and is now much stronger, more united and more motivated to help our society and Bulgaria get out of this terrible situation we are in. We thank the hundreds of thousands of members and sympathizers of GERB-SDS, who, despite the monstrous pressure they were subjected to, did not lose faith in us and gave us the strength we have today. Because of them, because of the hundreds of thousands of our voters, we didn't bend and we didn't break. And if you ask yourself, what motivated our behaviour in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, then the answer to this question must be obvious with every action here in Parliament, we have returned the self-respect of our constituents and respect for the Political Party GERB. And from this tribune today, I would like to address our constituents and say thank you, my friends, for the power you have given us. We did not betray you, we will not betray you from now on, we will not betray Bulgaria. In the October elections, we hope that you will again strongly support GERB-SDS. Let us beat them with their machines, and we promise you that you will be proud of your choice and will be proud of what we will do together for Bulgaria. Thank you, on behalf of the 59 MPs of the GERB-SDS parliamentary group, who fought with all our strength for Bulgaria to be a free, democratic and rule of law. We did it! Thank you, colleagues. And to you, colleagues, the next Forty-eighth National Assembly, if GERB-SDS will have to form a government, we will show how it works. How to work for the good, for the future of Bulgaria and for its worthy place in the family of European peoples. In the next National Assembly, we will be here and there will be more. And for those of you whom the people will decide to return to this room, we will show how to work for the purposes that we have set for ourselves. Because, I assure you, it will be the people's will. And the will of the people is holy! The lesson of the last year and a half, I hope you understand that whoever faces the people's will goes to early elections. I hope, colleagues, by October, you have considered how you came here, to finally accept that our people are wise, and to agree that his will is God's will. And when the people say again that they prefer to take part in the government of the country and GERB, to treat this message with understanding and accept it. Our interest in the political party GERB's parliamentary group is Bulgaria to be a peaceful, free and developed country. And we Bulgarians, no matter what political views we have, to live in understanding, tolerance, to be solidarity, to help each other, to overcome crises and to move forward together. Consider once again whether you want this to be your interest, whether you want it to be a common force of the compound interest, or again you will try to defeat your own people. Good luck to everyone in the upcoming election campaign, be healthy, reasonable and tolerant! God save Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues, I will make a procedural proposal to extend the time of today's plenary session until the declarations of all parliamentary groups are exhausted and until the final speech of the President is completed. Please, voting mode. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. There is such a people? Here you are, Mr. Nikolov. You have the floor. Colleagues, please take your seats and remain silent, show respect to the other parliamentary groups. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u160	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Although with an incomplete mandate, the forty-seventh National Assembly left vivid impressions of its activities in the whole Bulgarian public for what it had done, and most of all for what it failed to accomplish. The government broadcast by this National Assembly stated at the beginning of its mandate the ambition to bring together and build. Sadly, six months later, it became the epitome of all that Smyrnen immortalized in his story about the ladder. Bulgarian citizens witnessed vile political games, unsaved coalition promises and unholy relations between the former coalition partners and between the ruling and opposition. And if her last job was to point out the curves of power and offer alternatives, then the ruling majority had to demonstrate unity and expertise. For one reason or another, perhaps not only political, the initially formed ruling majority failed to look in one direction and began to favour some participants in the coalition at the expense of others. We of the Political Party have never put up with the role of a silent crutch of power and in no case could we sacrifice the national interest of the Republic of Bulgaria, any regulated promises or unregulated temptations to be offered to us. Known both betrayal and passed through the catharsis of loyalty, we are heading cleaner and wiser than ever to the next political challenge. Let us all make this room so that we forget as soon as possible the careless political rhetoric, which quite often sounded from this tribune, and let us wish that in the next National Assembly we will be present in addition to mostly political figures, also more first-class experts, with the help of whose potential to be able to meet the challenges that stand in the immediate agenda of the state. Calling on us to do our best so that it does not turn out that after the end of this hot political summer we are facing the coldest economic winter, we are splitting up today to give the Bulgarian citizens the opportunity to choose the most suitable rulers who have the abilities and are not afraid to take the responsibility to lead the country through the difficult times that await us. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u161	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. From the parliamentary group of the Democratic Bulgaria "Mr. Ivanov," come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There are two special parliamentary days at the beginning and at the end, where we are between the sharp opposition between government and opposition, majorities and minorities, as well as to change the campaigns, and which are some slits in these regimes, in which we can still try to tell each other something a little different from the usual confrontational ones that we go out with here. Otherwise, this lovely, dignified buffet, of course, requires both passion and aggression and a desire for confrontation, but today is one of those days that I personally wish, taking advantage of, in a way, perhaps, of abusing my position as chairman of the group, to say something a little different. Let's go outside those finger-swappings, outside those slogans and declarations that we throw at each other with such passion otherwise, we can't, and let's just say, first of all, thank you to each other. We have worked in this mind grinder because, apart from a savage, and that is because here we are collided, and the goal must always be to come out something more than we are...... the individual parties, the individual minds, to collide in our contradictions, to come out something more. So because of this effort to come out something more, although it was not very successful in this Parliament, once again, I would like to thank each and every one of you. I would also like to say that if, with all our desire to be kind and polite, we have offended someone, forgive me. Purely human, I think these things are important. Besides that, let me say something political, and it certainly has nothing to do with me thinking I can teach someone. But we have to realize that we are going to these elections or to elections to replicate another campaign with another cliché, or to try to make them a little bit different. In my opinion, in my humble opinion, if we try to be a little bit different, they should try to answer one question, and this question is how to get out of this spiral of the political crisis. There are plenty of other crises that have struck us, in the name of which we can try to answer this question. Each of us should give the recipe, not what, not what, not with whom, but how our republic will be governed from here on out. We have tried to stand in the position that we cannot afford this campaign now, another period of unmanageableness, because the time in which certain decisions can be made is running out. We failed to hold this parliament. And others have tried, and I'm not saying that we're the only ones who've tried, and we're going to this campaign. Let's try to answer the question of how will the republic be managed, what governance will be. And let me really in the special spirit of this border day say some of our or my observations about this and what the next parliament is worth trying to be a little better, or say a few regrets. I regret that we in this Parliament have forgotten that Parliament, or we have not been able to properly stand the understanding that Parliament exists because of the opposition. Parliament is not a place where power is exercised. Power is given at the elections of some majority. It can always be closed only and make decisions. The fact that we are gathered here with the opposition, it has the tools of procedural slowdown, participation, speech and because parliament exists to stop the exercise of power, to be a brake over too easy and too fast solutions. That's why parliament started. And this thing we couldn't understand in the spirit of this Parliament well enough. I would like to say frankly that we were wrong, we were wrong to give adequate representation in the opposition committees. Sounds like something small, procedural, which now on that day, at the start of the campaign, it's not good to say, but I want to say it. I would like to say that we have forgotten about our obligation but to talk about our constituents as for the whole people, which we all do and very much love to do, regardless of whether there are 600 thousand or there are 100 thousand and few, we have forgotten that we really have to represent the whole people, and that means that all the time we have to remember that we have to be able, apart from repeating our own ones, to be able to convince people who think differently from us often, the exact opposite of what we think. This is our job. Not only do we gather in a state of thinking alike and trying to form some majorities, we have to try to make some bridges all the time. And when we talk about dialogue in this difficult and so beloved sport that we all brag and swear on it, and so easily fail constantly, we actually have to remember that our job is all the time to collect the fabric of this society, not just here to form some majorities in one way or another. We must raise the level of political debate and this is what we have tried. How we've done, we've seen. But we must remember that parliament is, among other things, a rose of times. I mean a famous phrase by Augustine Blessed, who says there are many times, is not one time. There's the time of the Penal Code that clock that anyone who's run over the law is counting the statute. There's procedural time, the time of our procedures that we deal with. There's a budget time on how the financial resources, and money is time. They're someone's work, turned into paperwork. How's that time running? There is a geopolitical time.. that time that so came upon us all, when on February 23 we were all sure that there would be no war and on February 24 we woke up and Kiev was bombed. And that geopolitical time we're trying to hide from, hiding from the reality of this war. So here in this room, all these times come together and become a national destiny. Our words, our silences, our actions, all of this is intertwined and turned into a national destiny, and especially our shortcomings, especially the moments in which we get carried away with the ease of attacking, humiliating our opponents. Let's try those of us who will be in the next parliament, and we ourselves, and I myself, because all that I say as my own regret, I address it to myself, and I don't want to teach here, to remember it all. We need to answer the question of how Bulgaria will be managed and it subtends itself to two very important issues. The issue of corruption is not a matter for us here or in the political debate to condemn one person or another. The issue of corruption requires a change in the state of the national political system. It requires, first of all, what political culture we bring. Is it the political culture of single decisions, or is it the political culture of collective decisions, of sharing responsibility, of slow joint discussion? We were very reproached for getting together to discuss something together. Forgive me if someone is offended by what we have said to each other by discussing together, but we are also lacking in a political culture of collective decision making. I'm not lecturing anyone. And I, as a leader, always tell myself that we are not doing enough, but we all have to make this choice, because if we do not have in our parties an authentic culture of collective decision making, of collective responsibility with our persons, the ones who decide are the ones who stand in front and take responsibility, we will never deal with corruption. We can switch sides, we can hack somebody or we can't, but we can't deal with corruption. If we do not agree that we must reform the judiciary, so the question of who is corrupt and who is not to be removed from the political debate and left to an independent court and, yes, I am very glad that we have come to this civilizational achievement to be happy that we have an independent court in Bulgaria. Now we have to have the prosecution, which is really neutral and does not serve any more than others. And that doesn't mean we take it from one of them and give it to the other, for sure! We need to find a way to agree to reform the prosecution so that it is nobody's but the law and the national interest. We must agree that we must have institutions that are truly independent. It's hard, it's slow, it gets in the way of moments. Many times we have been tempted in this Parliament to make decisions in which to interfere with other institutions. We had an excuse for all kinds of crises, for any extraordinaire with the situation, and it wasn't enough. And that's also something I regret. We, if we want to deal with corruption, must agree that deciding who is corrupt and who is not, is not the work of the political debate. Our job is to build such institutions and such a justice system that can handle this. But this also means that when there are politicians who have a lot of corruption issues to answer, to find a way, by making collective decisions, to get off the stage, so that the entire national political debate is not a bet on the personal fate of one or another, who watches that clock with criminal time, when the penalty statute will expire. There is no other model to achieve political sustainability beyond these consents. They are not recorded in laws, in the Constitution, they are a matter of political culture, and we should all try, in this campaign, including working for it. And the question of war. Corruption begins with the Russian model. There's nothing to lie about. And we must be able, whatever we think of Russia, and I can say many good things about this country and its culture, to face the reality that we are the subject of aggression. The entire international model, in which Bulgaria exists and on which our security is based, our stability, our economic integration, is subject to aggression and we must protect our way of life, our freedom, our model of economic development. And we need to answer the question how we will manage Bulgaria so that we can tackle these two huge challenges - corruption, and war. This is our responsibility in the next campaign. Otherwise, we will call each other by any adjective names, show a high level of political culture by continuing to draw any claims from personal meetings and abuse the trust we have shown each other. This beauty will not be avoided, but let's try at least the other one. I want to thank you again in the end. To wish you, above all, to be healthy, to succeed in this insane time to make time for your families. There's always someone who needs more time with you, and we use it to feel better people, and when we run into each other again, we can look at each other with a little more humanity. We all need that, and I need that myself. And to wish you success, everyone as they imagine it, but always for the sake of Bulgaria to be a little better. We will appear on this campaign, continuing to plead common sense, because nothing will happen if we do not stand up to this common sense in politics. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u163	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Kostadinov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u164	Dear compatriots! Timelessness is the word that describes most precisely the past almost eight months, a period of time during which there were no aspirations, ideals and no visible development and progress. A time of illusions and lies, farce and political machinations. A time of apparent fight against corruption, but in fact a replacement of the structure of the so-called political bat, a repressive bat, betrayed with dissatisfaction with the old GERB of the new GERB in the face of The desire for power and the fight for commissions from state transactions made the quadruple coalition, however, very quickly triple. The President of the National Assembly was suspended, and then the government itself with active help from us, from rebirth. We fought against you because you not only tried to destroy the state, but you didn't stop trying to do it on principle after us and the flood. The thirst for power combined with political hypocrisy put at real risk the physical survival of millions of Bulgarians. We were told that problems were being solved, but in fact the crises were deepening in all spheres of the state. The strong claim to fight corruption ended so far that some corrupt people replaced others who were corrupt. Corrupts are always there, standing, receiving money, returning commissions, receiving commissions and helping the well-oiled machine to work. The winds are only the front places where the old GERB was successfully replaced by the new GERB in the face of All of this covered with a well-created illusion fueled by propaganda that you are fighting corruption. On 7 December, however, we submitted a bill on judicial reform. The bill regulates the way the Attorney General can be removed. We had imported it in the previous term of the previous National Assembly. In violation of the Rules, however, he eight months later is not yet at the stage of discussion and will not enter the Chamber of this National Assembly, as happened with the previous one. Eight months of the offices of the parliamentary groups present is the solution to a problem put in the election campaigns of almost each of the parliamentary parties. The only thing the government has managed to do is to close down the Special Prosecutor's Office, but here is the time to note that even this happened thanks to us from the age of old because we supported this decision, which today is presented only as an achievement of the government. Much of the Bills of Revival and our draft decisions were hidden and did not reach the House. They waited for months and continue to wait in violation of the Rules of Organisation and the activities of the National Assembly. It is obvious that you were not prepared for the legislative activity of rebirth and the pace at which we worked for our people, or you just thought that by neglecting our activities, it would not be noticed. I guess it's the first one to be explained by the lack of personal training and political skills of the ruling majority. The majority in parliament came with an application that was not fulfilled, not one, and with promises that did not stand behind. Both your laws and decisions are like the Constitution, which only serves you to violate it. As early as December, we tried to provoke you to think of someone other than yourself, to think of the Bulgarian people who are in debt and are pressed by creditors. We have introduced a bill that protects the indebted Bulgarians, indebted and to some extent due to the management decisions. This bill has been rejected, and decisively. And because he had little to do with the poor indebted Bulgarian, the ruling majority and the government tried to involve him in the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine to give arms and arms, to pay health insurance to Ukrainians, to take refugees into hotels and homes for which you would pay with European funds. However, you are in chaos on this matter. You left the volunteers the conscientious and honest Bulgarians who went to greet the first line along the border of the refugees coming from Ukraine without helping them, and you boasted of the TV studios how well you were doing. Of course, by reducing the aid, the interest in the refugees of the government fell sharply. We do not blame you for this, but we condemn you for the fact that most Bulgarians live as refugees fleeing the war in their own country, and without war and, of course, without the government paying attention to them. Then came the sanctions to Russia, which were supported by the government and all the parliamentary groups without a shred of pity for the poor struggling Bulgarian. Thus the hunger and cold millions of Bulgarians will probably be doomed in the winter, because the words about gas and other sources are another uninformed lie, a lie to which we will all pay the price for the coming months, because gas does not exist and you know it. The only way to get out of the crisis at the moment is to negotiate with the Russian Federation. You did not understand, however, the more inadequate it is and the less thoughtful the decisions of the rulers are, the more dependent you make us from one great power or another. During the governance of this government and the work of this parliament the poor became even poorer, censorship in the media gained gigantic dimensions, goods rose by more than 40%, fuel went by three leva and gas rose by more than 30 so far. Businesses are flexed by electricity bills, food sovereignty continues to disappear along with closed industries, healthcare is under pressure from administrative burdens, and education still continues to be mercilessly exploited by foreign foundations. There is nothing else to say about the army except that after buying plane drawings, with a contract without a clear subject and term, you tried to conceal your influence by giving the treaty to the Minister of Defense and to no one else so that he could change it individually. It didn't happen, but it did have that kind of experience. Political appointments in our civil aviation were at the expense of the license we almost lost. That's how a state is controlled by the classic American model. Now it is time to close down parliament, and some of you may go to the American Embassy tomorrow morning for breakfast to take account of their successes. I place successes in large quotes, of course, because your success is not in line with the Bulgarian national interest, therefore it is not the interest of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people. You have plunged the state into crisis, but you have failed to humiliate it completely. We have stopped you from rebirth and will continue to stop you, and when after the next elections the Bulgarians give us their trust, we cross the next National Assembly as a majority, Bulgaria for the first time in 30 years will be for the Bulgarians without masks, without measures, without restrictions and only in accordance with the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Then we will re-submit and adopt all 29 bills that we have created to work for Bulgarian citizens, as well as all 23 draft decisions in the care of the Bulgarians and the Bulgarian people. Then the new and old GERB will be in the past, and the 30 years of the so-called transition will be a dark paragraph in Bulgarian history. For all of this we have fought and will continue to fight because we have only one "Bulgaria" and the Bulgarian people. We're with him and he's behind us. Long live Bulgaria! [[Extreme applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-29.u165	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Dear colleagues, a few words from me too. Today is probably the last plenary session of the 14th National Assembly, which in a few minutes will become part of the history of Bulgarian parliamentaryism. It's been almost eight months since the first bell. These were intense and intense events for eight months. We took an oath in the midst of another wave of the Kovid pandemic. Inflation processes were already in effect. Prices of basic resources such as gas, fuel and electricity increased. All these negative phenomena occurring worldwide were given a new strong impetus on February 24th, when only a few hundred kilometers from the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria started a war. And not just any one, but between two of the largest countries by territory, population and economy in the world. In these difficult times of crisis, the 40th National Assembly was not united, but what were the reasons for it, I will give the time and the Bulgarian citizens to give their assessment. The tensions of another crisis, namely the political one that ruled in 2021, apparently cast its heavy shadow on the work of this Chamber of the National Assembly. The plenary sessions were often the arena of personal clashes, the use of vulgar and cynical language, in a language of hatred. This highest tribune has been used in an inappropriate way to achieve political goals, which I believe is contrary to the principles of parliamentaryism. Principles that, although often raised as a topic by the individual parliamentary groups, were not enough to honor. We lacked patience, we lacked tolerance for each other, for different opinions. There wasn't enough respect among the MPs. And despite the multitude of peripets, the forty-seventh National Assembly was able to pass 78 laws, to receive answers to 2478 questions and questions from executives and to hold parliamentary control within 141 hours and 7 minutes. We also managed to find common positions on some bills, draft decisions and declarations. Dear colleagues, Bulgarian society needs a political elite to have confidence in. Bulgarian society needs security, calmness and stability. Bulgarian society deserves to live in better Bulgaria. I believe that each of us will learn from our mistakes, and I call on you: let us be more sensible, more self-critical, more responsible and more honest to ourselves, to our colleagues and to our compatriots whether they are in the country or abroad. Finally, I thank Associate Professor Sylvi Kirilov, who, with kind words and good wishes, started the work of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. I thank Mr. Nikola Minchev for his excellent work as President of the National Assembly in my opinion. I thank the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. I thank all the MPs and the entire administration of the National Assembly for the fact that the forty-seventh National Assembly gave its fruitful results. I wish you all success in future endeavors and good luck! We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
