ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u1	Honourable colleagues, please register. Colleagues online: Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u3	Honest Mitev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u5	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u7	Registered 211 MPs in the hall and 3 online There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Today's meeting has been convened with an order of the President of the National Assembly on 28 February 2022 on the basis of art. 78, p. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 40, para. 2 and para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: A single point. Adoption of Decision on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u8	Dear Mr. President, in view of current consultations in the parliamentary groups, please rest for 30 minutes. [[(Loud noise. (Applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u9	I call for a 30-minute recess at the request of a parliamentary group. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u10	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, resume the meeting! Point only: ACCEPTANCE OF A DECISION ON PERSONAL CHANGES IN THE MINISTER COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Draft Decision on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Before we proceed to the presentation of the draft decision and the proposed nomination, I propose that Mr. Dragomir Zakov be admitted to the Chamber of Defence. Please vote on Mr. Zakov's admission to the Chamber. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u11	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u12	Honest Mitev? Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u13	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u14	Honest Mitev, last call? I think everyone's been able to vote, I'm calling off the vote. Vote in this House 202 MPs and 2 online " 204" total: 199 and 2 online " 201" total, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I'd like the Quaestors to invite Mr. Zakov into the courtroom. Please come in for an affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u15	Mr. Chairman! Dear compatriots, there is war on this on the occasion of the statement of already fired, as in the reality format of Donald Trump, military minister. There is a war and those on my right are doing everything in their power to intervene uninvited. We all see it, we all hear it, but thank God we don't feel it on our backs yet. However, millions of people are testing it on both sides of the conflict. While we are practicing eloquently here, at this moment perhaps, God forbid, our fellow Bulgarians are dying in Ukraine who have become hostages of politics and bombs. As Stambolov wisely said, the National Assembly should not be a school of eloquence, but a place where the Bulgarian fate is decided, in these days especially more than ever. However, this fate is entrusted in the hands of a group that is more like a Facebook acquaintance than capable of managing a country. In the end, it is not a school of rhetoric, although I have reason to doubt that many of the people present, both to the right and to the right, would be winners even in such a school.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u16	Mr. Kostadinov, however, in expressing respect for the present both folks and members of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u17	Thanks for the remark. It was as if, in order to enhance dramatism as in American military action, the Prime Minister demanded the resignation of the military minister for two words in half a replica of a military operation. By the way, these same words American presidents use whenever they invade many countries around the world to plant a democracy filled with bombs. Speaking of words, Prime Minister, you requested the resignation of the nominee just a few months ago personally from you military minister with the words "my Minister." I'm sorry, but you don't have ministers. The Bulgarian people have ministers and nothing here is yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u18	Mr. Kostadinov, this is starting to look like a speech on the discussion that we will be discovering in a moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u19	No, it's not about discussion. Mr. Petkov, you don't have ministers. The only thing you have is responsibility, and I remind you that the word "the minister" means literally "service." The responsibility not to turn Bulgaria into a parrot repeating foreign phrases serving foreign interests. This is the responsibility of the Bulgarian rulers always, regardless of who they are. Those who command our government will not leave their offices because they are not a buffer zone of conflict. If the war knocks on our border, something very devoted to which our cabinet seems to be trying, pushing with the big ones, if the war expands and comes to us...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u20	Mr. Kostadinov...!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u21	...mostly send you encouraging video cards, like they did with poor Zelinski. Bulgaria should not take sides in a conflict that is not hers. If two brothers fight, what should the third one do? Do you have to reconcile them or should you give a weapon in the hand of the one you think is right? Because that's what's happening right now. We are preparing to give arms at least such are the statements, I hope it will not happen in a war between two brotherly peoples who kill themselves just a few hundred kilometers from Bulgaria. Brotherly, both of us, because both Ukraine and Russia are our brotherly, friendly and close countries. Sending military help is ridiculous. Even mothers in social networks are better organized structure than the institutions of the Council of Ministers at the time. The women of Bulgaria first and almost with military discipline were organized to collect what was necessary for the people in Ukraine. Our Council of Ministers wants to give up arms to stop the war. What nonsense is this?! The women of Bulgaria are the real army now. The wives of these women were already driving their private cars to the border of Romania with Ukraine to carry at their expense those fleeing the war. If you care about people, don't send a gun, don't even say it, think about it for a moment alone and without a phone consultation. If so much the Council of Ministers wants us to line up with the big ones, let the Council of Ministers propose that Bulgaria become a negotiator and mediator. Let's invite the sides of a conversation here, because we're the country that can do it. We are the only country that has this kind of relationship with both the East and the West, at least until a few days ago, if we have not already irretrievably spoiled them. It is obvious that you are not dealing with the position of Prime Minister of Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u22	Mr. Kostadinov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u23	...and your portrait will hang next to those of people like Stefan Stambolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u24	Your speech should be better selected.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u25	I assure you that there will always be a court of history behind the European Union and NATO, as has always happened, and perhaps very soon. Now I want to be heard very carefully, because I'm going to say a big news story. Bulgaria has its own interests to defend. Yes, we have our own interests, which, yet news, may sometimes be different from those of the European Union and NATO. Here lines such as the one of the future, the former Minister of Defence: "NATO is Bulgaria, Bulgaria is NATO" sound a little ridiculous because it is not among our interests that Bulgaria is the sixth, seventh and fifteenth runner-up for the heart of America. It seems, however, that the Council of Ministers will not take such a responsibility. That's why we want the resignation of the Council of Ministers. With each statement, with every move, with every bufosynchronade of a foreign position serving foreign interest, this Council of Ministers and this Prime Minister are drawing us closer to the war. Stop on your own, gentlemen in charge! Stop it so you don't stop your story! Let's face it, you're hurting us. Give me your resignation. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u26	I now give the floor to the importer to present the draft decision. Here you are, Prime Minister. [[Loud noise. Replica from the National Representative Toma Bikov: "Procedure".]] Please be quiet in the hall. Just a second, Mr. Bikov is right. I'll do it, Mr. Bikov. I'm doing a direct broadcast procedure on BNR and BNT 2. I don't see any other opinions. We vote on the proposal. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u27	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u28	Honest Mitev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u29	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u30	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u31	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u32	Vote in this House 221 MPs and 3 online " 224 total: for 110, against 1, abstention 110 and 3 online " 113 total. The offer is not accepted. [[(Reply by National Representative Mustafa Karadayi:]] It's a re-vote. Colleagues online: Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u33	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u34	Honest Mitev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u35	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u36	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u37	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u38	Vote in this House 223 MPs and 3 online.. 226 total: 101, against 2, abstention 120 and 3 online....................................................................................... 123......................................................................................................................................................... The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Petkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before I go into the particular subject we've gathered for, I want to let you know, because we should all be most interested in that last night, while some of us have been practicing rhetoric, we've moved 190 people out of Kiev. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "DB" and "Resurrection."]] We did it! We had a small window, we managed to get them out in buses, and that's especially important because right now there's over a 40km line of armed forces going to Kiev. [[Reply from Mustafa Karadaye: How did it happen, how did you do it?]] Yeah, I can tell how it happened. Thanks to General Venev, thanks to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in full coordination, we were able to contact the Kiev police, managed to make a green corridor and literally at the last moment we managed to get them out at night, with the buses moving at a distance from each other to avoid thinking it was a military convoy, and today 190 Bulgarians are safe and this happened because the services and the same institutions worked last night without sleeping until the morning. Congratulations to them! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "DB" and "Resurrection."]] And now I want to introduce you to the candidacy for the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria. I propose Dragomir Zakov. He has 20 years of experience as a diplomat in international security. Since 2019 Dragomir Zakov has been Ambassador of Bulgaria to NATO. He has extensive expertise in the field of international security, including through the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and the United Nations. Ambassador Zakov not only knows the security system, but the system knows him. The past years have been actively working to impose a systematic approach to decision-making in the field of defence, as well as to increase countering disinformation. Zakov graduated from the French High School in Sofia, Master of Economics, specialized in the Centre for Security of the European Union and the Geneva Centre for Policies and Security. He speaks English, French and Russian. Based on the solid experience of Ambassador Zakov in the field of security, I propose it to the National Assembly for the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u40	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. I'm opening the discussion. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Prime Minister, before you introduce the new candidacy, I think you should have motivated the resignation of the current minister, and we are waiting to hear the reasons for the resignation. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u42	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Anyone who wants to make a statement? If he wishes, Mr. Petkov has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u43	Dear Members of Parliament, what are the reasons for the resignation? The reasons for the resignation are that no minister of this government has the right to make its own foreign policy on Facebook, point 1. Second point, no minister has the right to feel that he is a pledge to the stability of this government. We have a clear coalition format and such self-loathing statements that if I am not a minister, this government may not be stable...................then there is no way to be tolerated by this staff of the Council of Ministers. And I want to make it very clear to you all that this government cannot be a pledge or in any way put into anyone's condition. We have four parliamentary parties who support it, we have a clear policy, and any such policy is taken in this format and in any other form. The last thing that's very important. Who, as he wants to call anywhere in the world, but the Bulgarian government expects when there are 3,500 soldiers killed on one side and more on the other, when there is a fire on our minority, when we have to use special buses at night to bring 190 people to safety, this is called war. It's not called surgery, it's not called some other word, it's called war, and we should clearly be able to condemn this thing in the right terms, not to speak extenuating words. What is the Bulgarian interest? The Bulgarian interest is not to lower ourselves, to be quieter than the quietest, to be smaller than grass, to bow our heads and to say: This government from now on, as so far, is working on principles and when it sees that something is wrong, something that violates international laws, we will say this clearly and we will give clear support when there is one violent on one side in a frat house and there are some victims on the other side. And we won't allow anyone to use mitigating rhetoric when women and children are currently hiding in the basements and waiting for a 40km convoy of military forces of one neighbouring country to enter the capital of another. So we will not allow any minister to feel that he can make his own opinion on this subject, and we clearly state that this is unacceptable. That is why I requested the resignation of Minister Yanev. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "DB" and "Resurrection."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u44	Thank you, Prime Minister. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Atanas Zafirov, come in. I'm recording Mustafa Karadaye, Ekaterina Zaharieva, Andrey Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the House! We are about to vote on an awkward decision. Only two and a half months after the start of the coalition cabinet, we are facing a change of minister, and a key minister is facing a defence minister. And this is happening at a time of a severe geopolitical crisis and a war less than 200 kilometers from our border. One such shift requires a solid argumentation and even more so when the minister himself refuses to resign, despite the apparent inability in recent weeks to work as a team with the Prime Minister and the leading party in the cabinet. Moreover, this is the party that broadcast Mr. Yanev's candidacy for defence minister. We heard from the Prime Minister on the grounds, and I thank you, Prime Minister, for doing so, because by the way, the previous Prime Minister Boyko Borisov never did this thing, and there the shifts were frequent, not even coming to parliament. And in the spirit of our coalition agreement, we accept them and vote for the proposed shift. For Bulgaria, BSP cannot be the party which, under one of the most unprecedented geopolitical crises in the region and in the world, will throw the country into the chaos of the political crisis and a long period of powerlessness with a clear address to power and lack of parliament. Bulgaria faces severe challenges and at this very moment there is a need for strong leadership, clear majority and legitimately elected bodies of government. There is no way in such an environment the Prime Minister, the coalition majority and one of the key ministers to speak in a different language and there is no way we can allow the displacement of the debate from the real problems of the Bulgarian society and the focus on minor topics, which undoubtedly leads to the neglect of the main mission with which this parliamentary majority was elected and formed, namely the disassembly of the GERB model and the punishment of those responsible for the actual destruction in the Bulgarian society, economy, social life, including the declared sharp deficits of capacity in the Bulgarian army and the armed forces, for which we all know who is guilty in the last 12 years. There is no sector through which the collapse of GERB has not passed, there is no corruption-free segment of society, there is no Bulgarian citizen outside the narrow...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u46	On the draft decision, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u47	...and leadership of GERB, which does not expect retribution and fair punishment for the guilty. And against the backdrop of... Yeah, yeah, on the subject. And against the backdrop of... I'm arguing. And against the backdrop of all the woes, another war in Ukraine came upon us. All of the accompanying, present and future negatives for the Bulgarian economy "Agriculture, tourism, transport and even, if you will, for public health, because this conflict has dug another deep, embossed dividing line in society, which unfortunately has the potential to grow and deepen. That is why I will say once again, we from BSP to Bulgaria declare that we do not want to be a conductor of such processes. We will work actively and devotedly for the unity, cohesion and prosperity of the Bulgarian nation, and we will not allow the country to be thrown into the laps of powerlessness and adventure. In support of the proposed change, we do not assess the qualities of the minister concerned's work, nor of his professional ethics. We merely demonstrate our determination to complete the coalition commitments made, detailed in our agreement, maintaining the autonomous right of every entity in the coalition to propose and recall their ministers without, however, entering into a Coliseum with our common goals and horizons. Bulgaria needs a working parliament, a stable majority and predictable policies. The other is the way to nowhere and the return of the status quo to power. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u48	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Are there any lines to Atanas Zaferov? I won't. I give the word to Mustafa Karadaye for a statement. It was you, but if you want. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u49	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, the Minister of Defence is offered release only two months after voting on this cabinet. There are no clear arguments, as is, by the way, in any case, when the government is trying to clarify something. The reference to the defence minister Stefan Yanev's statement on Facebook of 27 February is ridiculous, given that the minister has official statements, including in the National Assembly. Where was the Prime Minister at the first statement of the Minister of Defense? Could actions have been coordinated and today simply proved to be a convenient fuse? More importantly, today there is no clarity why this personal change is required?! And the defense minister's request on Facebook on February 27th is in connection with the fact that he has already been asked for his resignation and there is no reason, nor reason, nor is it an argument for his resignation. Such questions stand before the National Assembly and the entire Bulgarian society. How long are we going to listen to these unargumented talk, without any action, without one effective step being taken? At this point, when the fruits of the work governments were to be harvested and continued by the new government ministers with the same ministers, and every Bulgarian citizen had to have felt the improvement, the state and the indicators were tragic. The Prime Minister, as well as the National Assembly and the President, strongly condemned the Russian invasion in Ukraine. That's right. But we all expected him to propose a solution to the crises in the country, to support every Bulgarian citizen, to support the Bulgarian municipalities. With the same determination, he had to support statehood. Repeating the mantra that analysis, assessment, evaluation and only then solutions, especially in the current situation of a military crisis, put the state and its citizens at risk. To continue to hope for a change for the better than this government would be an expression of naivety, political shortsightedness and distance from reality. It is high time someone told the truth: this government has neither the capacity nor the will to improve the lives of Bulgarian citizens. Moreover, the government is the main missing factor in our expectations for stability and security. We are witnessing only an infinitely abducted, unpaid self-esteem and eulogy at our own address of the government. In the name of peace, stability and security, we will not want the resignation of the entire cabinet now, in this complicated military time, in this situation, but I clearly state that this government is already harmful to the country, to democracy, to statehood. We want to state clearly: the Bulgarian state is not an experienced laboratory and Bulgarian citizens are not experienced bunnies for political experiments. Bulgarian citizens want security. Bulgarian citizens should no longer be lied to. They deserve fair treatment, clear answers and adequate state-of-the-art decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, keeping peace is the concern of every citizen responsible for the future, of all state bodies and institutions. Peace must be preserved, sometimes at the cost of many compromises. The DPS knows that it is possible to maintain peace, to preserve the lives of all citizens of our land with mutual efforts! Therefore, a common political will is needed. We call on all national responsible parties in the National Assembly, we call on the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Council of Ministers for joint coordinated actions between all authorities and institutions in the name of the Bulgarian citizens, in the name of the country, in the name of peace and the future of Bulgaria, the region of Europe and the world. Peace demands responsibility, consistency, common will and competence. Peace wants synergies and unification of joint efforts. Peace deserves every effort and every compromise in this sense. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u50	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Are there any lines to Mr. Karadaye? I won't. To make a statement, Ekaterina Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u51	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers, honourable colleagues! Only 40 minutes before the beginning of this extraordinary plenary session in the National Assembly was submitted a draft decision with which you, Prime Minister, propose for a new Minister of Defence Professor Tagarev. Less than 30 minutes before 11:00 from the media we found out about this rock. We have learned from the media that your proposal will be Ambassador Zakov. I won't talk about both professional and personal qualities. I know them and I've worked well with them. In my personal capacity, I sympathize with Professor Tagarev because he was used in this difficult situation. And with regard to Ambassador Zakov, who is obviously the acceptable candidate for President Radev and BSP, the one that Professor Tagarev was not, I wish him and I wonder at the cost of what he is such an acceptable candidate. Personally, I have no doubts about his geopolitical orientation, but this last-second rockade is waking me up with a few questions. First of all, do you even have a coalition agreement, Prime Minister? In what you call a coalition agreement, each of the parties or the movements we continue the Change is defining the ministers and teams in their ministries. Yesterday Mrs. Nino also said that it was a work of.. We continue the Change.... who will be the Minister of Defense. Secondly, how long will President Radev appoint ministers in your government? It is true that he created you, it is true that he defined not a small part of the ministers in this cabinet, but will you also coordinate with him? Will all ministers first be appointed to Dondukov 2? And third, which of the allegations is true? I will quote you on this with regard to the reasons for the request for resignation, I quote you, with regard to the post, if I am not mistaken, of Minister Yanev, the communications on this topic were a personal opinion, but this is not the formal position of the government: On January 25, I would not say that there is a war at the moment. Yesterday, on 28 February: No minister has the right to his own foreign policy, especially on Facebook. My military minister can't use the words "supposed" instead of "war." "You repeated them, by the way, and in the motives of the resignation. Finally, not at the end, but before the last, because obviously Ambassador Zakov was not your first proposal and desire....................................................................................... it is obvious to everyone, there is no way to be denied. I very much hope that you will not find yourself in a situation where another minister of yours expresses his personal opinion, I wish you truly. And finally. All my questions were rather rhetorical. It was clear to us from the beginning that such a coalition is not working because it is unprincipled. The parties and the movements in it have nothing to do with either ideological or political, some of them are not parties. You failed to sign a coalition agreement, you have separate agreements with you. To this day you have no management program, the coalition agreement is not a management program. Unfortunately, what has been seen for all of us is evident at the moment, in my opinion and for most Bulgarian citizens. The opposition has saved you several times in these two months, Prime Minister. First, when we called you January the three of you to stop this personal opinion. Because Minister Yanev and I think Mrs. Nino also said that your opinion was personal, your first opinions regarding this situation. And you had a personal opinion in the beginning. Secondly, with the declaration, which, thanks to us, the opposition, was adopted in parliament. And you went to Brussels. And voted, by the way, one of the very important points in it. Regarding sanctions, one of your coalition partners voted against. Without the opposition, you would not have gone with a mandate to Brussels! But Prime Minister, we will save you today! But this will not go on forever, Prime Minister! It is high time for words and analysis to move on to action and to action. Allow me to conclude something, this is a personal request to you: please be careful speaking when you talk about the evacuation of the people of Ukraine. We wish you wouldn't have to get anyone out of there! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u52	Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u53	Dear Members of the National Assembly, as they say: "With such friends you do not need enemies! " [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] The other thing I'd like to say, because we're talking about minutes, hours, and time intervals. Do you know what the difference is and with that I address you directly: what is the difference why yesterday we had a successful operation with the export of 190 people... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u54	Exodus.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u55	Get out, get out. ...and we didn't have similar success in another joint operation that we did, you and I, years ago? The difference is that then the government and Mr. Boyko Borisov refused in 7 minutes to finance the rescue operation of Boyan Petrov and our government took 10 seconds... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Ten seconds to make the right decision at a critical moment for the Bulgarians. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u56	First of all, lines to Ekaterina Zaharieva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u57	There, there!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u58	Mr. Tsonev, for a line? [[Reply of MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] A line from Thomas Bikov to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u59	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers! Mrs. Zaharieva, I am sorry and I hope that we will not continue with this topic, but I have personally heard Mr. Boyan Petrov's wife think about this issue and about Mr. Kiril Petkov's involvement there. We wouldn't have brought this up at all. [[(Reply from.. Continue ……]] Mr. Petkov once again lied to me and with these lies he must stop. Please explain what happened then! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u60	Mr. Bikov! Mr. Bikov, it wasn't a line to Mrs. Zaharieva in any way. Is there another line to Ekaterina Zaharieva? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u61	Mr. Bikov, I completely agree with you: human life cannot be done PR. I've been quiet for a long time. I think Bojan Petrov's wife or partner has been silent on this subject for years, actually. I'm really speechless, Mr. Petkov! We've been on the phone many times with you back then. We all know what happened. And his wife knows. The diplomats at the Ministry know. It's nice that you put it in your CV, you wrote it down there, but speaking manipulations and lies from that tribune, I didn't expect it! It's one thing to be in the studio and another is to write it in your CV, but to say that you organized everything, it's just not true. [[Reply of MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u62	Mr. Angelov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u63	And I can't imagine that, and that's my benevolent remark to you was really that I know that worries are used wrong words, but the word is not "expose." Yes, we are grateful to all the diplomats who stood there at the cost of their lives, the risk to their health and so on and helped that happen. That was absolutely benevolent, and you went out and used Boyan Petrov as a private publicist. May he rest in peace! And I would really like both his son and his wife, who know what happened, not to read, not to look at these things. Because she called me dozens of times when you went out repeatedly before you entered politics, and you explained how she didn't do anything. [[Replication of Prime Minister Cyril Petkov.]] You're the only one who went there! That wasn't true, and you know it. [[Replication of Prime Minister Cyril Petkov.]] And that wasn't true! [[Replication of Prime Minister Cyril Petkov.]] You know that. We were willing to pay for everything. Please! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u64	Colleagues, let the topic of the rescue operation of Boyan Petrov not be central in today's debate. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Don't talk to me from place to place. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I get it, I hear you all very well! Don't worry, I just said today's topic is a change in the staff of the Council of Ministers. Concentrate on that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u65	I'm just gonna answer one thing, though. Just one thing to say. General Venev managed to make the channel through which we managed to get these buses to Kiev because the government managed to finance it as well. In the previous topic the government paid zero leva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u66	Let's stop talking about Boyan Petrov, rest his soul. The topic of bringing our fellow citizens out of Ukraine is undoubtedly important and we are all enjoying the successful conclusion of this operation. Of course, we will be even more pleased when they are safe, but to return to the main topic, and it is a change in the composition of the government. The next recorded statement is Andrei Gurov. Then I recorded Krum Zarkov and Hristo Gazhev. Here you go, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u67	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! In the current crisis, our national security and interests are inextricably linked to the common position of the European Union and NATO in terms of war in Ukraine, namely condemning Russian aggression and ensuring lasting peace and stability in Europe. The strict implementation of our commitments as a loyal and predictable partner and ally, acting in full sync with the other member states, is a fundamental principle of our internal and foreign policy. We appreciate the contribution of General Stefan Yanev to the Bulgarian Army, his vision for modernization and his expertise. In the situation where the war is several hundred kilometers from our border, however, our government needs to speak in one voice. We cannot afford differences in the common position and in the common direction. First of all, there is no way to pass the dissonance with the common position of the government and the allies in terms of the conflict in Ukraine. What is happening, including an invasion of an independent state, a loss of lives and a refugee wave, cannot be defined as anything but war. And the inflammation of war because of the imperial interests of a man cannot be justified or passed away. We also want to say that we are not against Russia and we would like to stress this very clearly and categorically. But we can't keep quiet when the Russian president orders an attack on an independent state, when he bombs a civilian population, destroys cities. The Russian people also did not want it and did not want war with civil protests, regardless of the thousands of arrests already, people went out and said that the aggression against Ukraine from ordinary Russian citizens to prominent figures of culture, public figures, and calls to stop the war come from everywhere. Putin has no support from the Russian people for this war. As the prime minister said, the government's goal is to take proper action and defend principled positions. We are not afraid of electoral attitudes, because for us the Bulgarian national interest is much more important. Ending the conflict and finding a sustainable solution can only happen through deescalation and return to the negotiating table. It is therefore particularly important for NATO and the European Union partners to speak in one voice and there will be no hesitation in our common position, especially at such a time. Finally, allow me to point out that we are witnessing populist actions and positions which aim to question fundamental commitments for Bulgaria, to undermine the authority of our country in the name of narrow retrograde interests, interests through which the idea to justify an unacceptable aggression for modern human civilization. I would like to appeal to all of you fellow Members, let us not, in these difficult days for Ukraine and for all of Europe, divide ourselves into Russophiles and Russophobes, let us not speculate on morally outdated ideologies, let us put populism behind us, let us turn to reason in the name of the Bulgarian national interest, the principles of democracy and pluralism. I believe that we all share these principles in this National Assembly and will have the will to stand by our joint declaration. Thank you. [[(Applause from.. We continue Change......................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u68	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Are there any lines to Andrej Gurov? There are no lines. I'm sorry, I didn't see Nikolai Drenchev. Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u69	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Mr. Ghurov, my line will be very brief, because a false and inaccurate terminology has been heard several times here. Minister Yanev was absolutely right when he said it was a military operation, because it is a term and people who are familiar with military art and the army understand the difference perfectly. We, for media purposes and to make some political statements, may call war anything, but in reality what is currently taking place in Ukraine is precisely a military operation. This applies to the amount of armed forces, the operational art that has been introduced and the way in which this operation is planned and carried out and the objectives that are set. So it is right and possible, for the purposes of political talk, to use all kinds of smokes and fireworks, but when we really need to think about what is going on with terminology and knowledge of military work, it is precisely a military operation that is a military operation, because we have a certain amount of forces and a certain amount of goals that are set in achieving it. That's my brief remark. And the other one, which is, I would very much like Putin's problems to be left to Putin himself and we to think only of our country, its governance, or incompetence, and the way we could help our compatriots in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u70	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev, although your line did not seem to me to be directed towards Andrei Gurov, but rather as a statement. Are there any other lines to Mr. Gurov? Would you like a douche? No. Krum Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u71	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I've had to face people I value before, people I work with, people whose success I hope and help them to tell them they're wrong. This is a painful but necessary position for which there are usually not many candidates. That is the case today, Prime Minister, when I am forced to tell you that the removal of Stefan Yanev is a mistake. At such a time, the change of the Minister of Defence must be very seriously considered and justified. The motives that you have highlighted are, in my opinion, insufficient, and the consequences for the government towards the public support it needs so much will be severe. On your motives, and they're two basics, I'll say this: you say you can't pursue an independent policy, and here you're right. I assume you mean the gap in the messages between the Minister and you on the subject of NATO armed forces coming to Bulgaria. But this gap, assuming it was there, was overcome as far as it was known. The Council of Ministers has made a decision, here the National Assembly also took a unified position, you yourself have repeatedly explained Bulgaria's position as a framework state and so on. The dispute between you and the Minister of Defence, if any, was resolved, and was resolved by the one who should solve it by you and the Council of Ministers. From now on, the Secretary of Defense has to do it, and I think that's exactly what he was doing. There will be a gap between positions with other ministers, and such is the configuration, the political coalition we are in. They are somewhat understandable until the adoption of a single decision and unacceptable then, and now a dangerous precedent for the entire government is set. Your second motive for not using the word 'war'. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, it is typical for the highly divided societies, which, unfortunately, is Bulgaria, to seek certain words, sacred concepts that uniquely position you in one camp or another, the nuances are unbearable in such societies. Explanations always remain unheard of in such societies, even more so when we are at war. Since the Liberation so far, russophobicism and russophilism have been growing periodically in Bulgarian political life and everyone counts their own according to the words they use. Entire political forces have lived for years on the love or hatred of their constituents against the Russian Federation and now the Russians do not accept that Russia started a war despite the obvious fact. The Russophobes, for their part, do not accept and do not even think that the military, the general, the man who spent his life studying war and preparing for it, this word has a different meaning to the military do not like to talk about war as sailors do not talk about shipwreck. Unfortunately, shipwrecks happen, and war explodes, and now the most important thing our nation needs is unity. Unity is achieved, naturally, between us with talks, and between our decisions and the people, and except with uniform positions, and with authority to express them. This is where my criticism leads to unity, and this decision leads to another topic that will be discussed in the future. Stefan Yanev may have his critics, everyone will have them from now on, but he was human and still a man who built authority, and those positions that you denied and framed brought him... People found out that this is a man who is considering certain decisions, who does not throw himself lightly, who is in control, and this would be important for the tough decisions that we will have to make from here on out of his restraint. The next minister, whom I do not have the honour of knowing, will be placed in a very difficult position, as all his positions will be met by known countries with the suspicion that he was chosen precisely for them, understand the other has been removed. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Speaking out these criticisms, I mean that I am part of the ruling majority, I have accepted an agreement that must be respected, I am a member of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and I will respect its decisions, I am also referring to Stefan Yanev's statement yesterday and the will of the Prime Minister not to work together anymore, I also mean that this government and to have a government in Bulgaria at the moment is particularly important and that this configuration for me is the best that the forty-seventh Parliament can broadcast, and that is why I will support the Decision, but I urge you, honourable Mr. Prime Minister, to listen to the criticisms, to consider them and to keep them in mind in your next actions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u72	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines to Krum Zarkov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u73	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to thank Mr. Zarkov for that statement because he needed it. There was a need to understand something simple about what was happening to the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Is it a European party BSP, or is it a party that's frozen... [[(Noise, replica by BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u74	...in the time of the forty-five years of communist totalitarianism in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u75	Mr. Nikolov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, those of you, the ruling majority, who are still defined as right-wing, so when this government was formed, we told you that you were making a fatal mistake, a historic mistake with your coalition with BSP... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u77	Mr. Nikolov, is that a line to Krum Zarkov now?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u78	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u79	Then how do you address other people?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u80	Because with this coalition you have brought into the government of Bulgaria a political party, which will always, always put Russian interests above the Bulgarian national interest, because it is the nature of this party and it will never change. Do something reasonable, throw this party out of your coalition... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u81	Mr. Nikolov, no lines, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u82	Mr. Prime Minister, in your team, in your Council of Ministers you have ministers who have taken pictures of Georgievski ribbons in events of the Russophiles [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You have ministers who...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u83	Mr. Nikolov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u84	...do not defend the Bulgarian national interest and you will still understand it. Thank you for your attention. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u85	Mr. Nikolov, within your line you came out of the general assignment of the line as per the rules. After all, it should only be addressed to Krum Zarkov. Are there any other lines to Krum Zarkov? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u86	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov, your line was expected and predictable. Is BSP a European party? BSP Minister has applied for Bulgaria's membership in the European Union and BSP Prime Minister has signed Bulgaria's entry into the European Union. I don't know if it's a European party, you tell me. With regard to the past of BSP and what you are constantly trying to search, this is your nutritional environment, the middle of the division, the middle of the opposition of the Bulgarians to their own history. This food environment of yours is harmful, it is the cause of many of the things that have happened and that have not happened in Bulgaria. I can't stop you from using it, but I can stop treating it the way I plead others can. With regard to BSP, I will tell you that it is a party of the future, unlike yours, because the socialist idea is alive, modern and will be realized by the party that can do it, and this is BSP. As for your future, look for another horse, because this one is dying.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u87	Thank you. Hristo Gazhev for a statement. Come in, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are discussing one point and the only point and it is Stefan Yanev's dismissal as a minister because it became clear that he did not resign but resigned. I had now prepared myself for a speech on the initial draft decision that was distributed to the National Assembly, namely with a candidate for Minister Todor Tagarev. I never understood, I hope the Prime Minister will take the attitude and explain why things have changed in the last hour and the change is that there are still new and new candidates. Even at one time, when you asked for a break on behalf of a group, I was worried that we might have a third candidate for today, but it was so that the candidate could arrive from Brussels. I will therefore say a few words about Ambassador Zakov, who is an indisputable specialist in diplomacy, has proved himself in the field of foreign policy, especially in the sphere of security and defence and in his work as our ambassador to NATO, and with this biography he would be a wonderful candidate for a foreign minister, only that we are discussing for a defence minister and wishing him success. Yes, I will wish him success because his work as defence minister will be very difficult not only because of the crisis he has to solve at the moment, the things that surprised all of us and the war in Ukraine, but in general for all necessary reforms, measures and re-arming, which is required and must happen in the Ministry of Defence, also to continue the organizational development plans of the Bulgarian Army, but especially to get acquainted with the system. Because you said right, she knows the system, she knows him, the diplomatic system knows him. I'm hoping he'll be able to keep up with the Department of Defense's system very quickly, so there won't be a vacuum. I regret that it has now come to this resignation with these motives, because I, as a long-term critic of Minister Yanev's policies, will not dwell on this, but have you just found out, have you just found out about these policies? Because it turned out already, December, when his personal opinion came out that he did not want NATO presence on the territory of Bulgaria, you described it as a personal opinion, by the way, in response to my question. It turned out subsequently that this was your personal opinion, not the opinion of the Council of Ministers. It is in this logic, which is currently that ministers are being released for personal opinion, it must be released for you too, because you have a personal opinion. The policies that were Minister Yanev's, they were consistent and clear in this regard. Both in the formation of Bulgaria as a framework state and the refusal to strengthen the Bulgarian defence with allied troops, and its participation in the various NATO formats, they were clear. We've criticized them enough, but you've protected them from this tribune. You, Prime Minister, were coming out and defending these positions for which you now want the resignation, or rather you received the resignation of Minister Yanev. Because you were here from this tribune, which you defended the so-called Bulgarian battalion or rather Bulgaria as a framework state, you were the one who had no problem with personal opinion and with the participation in the anti-NATO protest of Minister Yanev and you have so far supported this policy. Now you've found that perhaps the ministers no longer have the right to personal opinion, they don't have the right to statuses on Facebook most likely, but you should have known this from the beginning. Because, yes, every minister has no right to a personal opinion, every minister expresses the state's position. This is from the very beginning of this government, and it is in principle a function of governments, not something we understand three months later. The problem is that the position you have now taken is clear. Well, Minister Yanev really missed, really made a mistake by not naming things by their real names, but you may have missed one other thing he said in his public participation, and it is that liberal democracies are exhausted, that there are no more leaders, there is no point in them. Maybe we should think about whether liberal democracies are right. Do you agree with this statement because, when I look at the government's silence on this subject, that liberal democracy is an exhausted format, then perhaps you agree? I'm not. As far as I'm concerned, why did it come to this? Well, the main reason it came up is because of the lack of leadership. The lack of clear leadership to lead the Council of Ministers, to lead the state at this time, and this allowed a vacuum to be created in which each minister could realise his own opinion and his own policy. I hope that this thing will be corrected from now on and that you already have a version of leadership in this government, because so far it is missing and perhaps it is the most obvious lack at the moment. Because in times of crisis we need strong leadership and currently it is missing in Bulgaria. You're talking about clear plans, you're talking about how you brought Bulgarian citizens out of Ukraine, but as I recall, there were four thousand requests - 190 people are out, which is good, but what do we do with the others? Because if we keep going at this speed, things are gonna get really scary real fast. I hope that the evacuation of Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian people who want to leave the military conflict will take place more quickly. I expected Stefan Yanev's resignation to be the last in this government, as one and a spiritual father of the "We are continuing the Change." He was the first person to say that he would vote for you, and I really thought that this would be the last resignation before the resignation of the Council of Ministers. Turned out to be the first, but maybe that doesn't rule out the next resignation from the Council of Ministers. And how much in Bulgaria and the government spoke in one voice and, as you said, strongly condemns the invasion of the Russian Federation, we will understand when from the government you change martenitsas with Georgiev bands. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u89	Thank you. Are there any lines to Hristo Gajev? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u90	Just one line, Mr. Gadget. We change martenitsas with only Bulgarian tricolor. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u91	We'll see!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u92	I give the speech of Rumen Hristov, then is Hristo Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u93	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I did not imagine that 25 years later, after I voted for Bulgaria's admission to NATO, we would have this debate again about Bulgaria's civilization choice and we would try to define exactly the term of the war, which is burning in a friendly country, such as Ukraine. I think things really need to be named by their real names. There we have a war waged by an aggressor, and as it has had to be said over the years about Hitler's attack on Russia, we have a similar attack on Ukraine, and I would call it venomous. That was the term used for many years. Of course, Bulgaria's civilization choice should not be questioned. I believe that what the government and the Prime Minister have done is something that deserves to be supported, even though we are opposed to this government, and that is normal not only because you have not negotiated with us on joint governance, but simply because in your coalition there is a left and left-liberal formation that is diametrically opposed to the understandings of our conservative right-wing vision of Bulgaria's development, but that is how it works, Mr. Prime Minister, quickly because, as we like to say, there are no Germans in the back of the head. You did not need to continue the disagreement between you and the military minister, and your proposal for this shift is timely. Regarding what is happening in Ukraine, I ask that we really be empathetic because I believe that there is a serious delay on both the European Union and the United States of America and NATO with regard to the assistance that we can provide there and, of course, on the part of Bulgaria as regards our fellow citizens and our close friends from Ukraine. Any help associated with their survival, their biting and easing their lives would be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u94	Thank you, Mr. Christov. There are lines to Mr. Rumen Hristov by Mr. Tsoncho Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u95	Mr. Chairman, several times the word has been used that entry into NATO is a civilisational choice of Bulgaria. I'm very sorry, but that's a cynical thing to say. Civilization choice.. entry into NATO! Do you have any idea what the civilization choice of any sovereign state is these days?! And something much more important. The entry into NATO, like the entry into the European Union, should have happened after the Bulgarian people really ruled whether they wanted to enter there. Because entry into NATO, first of all, it is not a civilisational choice, and secondly, the Bulgarian people have not pronounced whether they want to. This is precisely why we at the age of old think that the Bulgarian people should be asked whether they belong in NATO. And the thing about civilization choices, I'm asking you to keep it to yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u96	Second line? I can't see. Mr. Christov, you don't want the back? Okay. Mr. Hristo Ivanov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u97	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members! This government was built and began to act in a completely different situation and with a completely different situation about what could and could not happen in the future. Despite all the warnings, I do not think that anyone expected to actually happen what is currently happening within a few hundred kilometers of us.... literally at our threshold. We find ourselves in a radically changed environment, not just from the point of view of facts, but from the point of view of the notions of possible and impossible, which we literally had days ago. The change that we are discussing today is the result of this radical change, and we are entering a whole new age. This shift is sharp, it is non-traditional in terms of normal political practice, precisely from the point of view that it is an adaptation of the cabinet to a radically changed reality. This radically changed reality will change international relations, will change Bulgaria, will change Bulgarian policy and will start with a change in the cabinet. It also begins with the need to deal with words carefully, because when a new age begins, the book says..................... the words are a major political instrument. The use of war is not a matter of choice of military in terms of its attitudes, it is not a matter of personal opinion of a politician who until a few weeks ago operated in a situation where he thinks we can be flexible, allow ourselves certain differences, especially in social networks and so on. The notion of war is an international term of the term fundamental to international law and international relations. Of international law, in truth, some of its fundamentals are the so-called Hag conventions that define it. International law also defines the consequences associated with this concept. Putin's unwillingness to use this concept is an reluctance to admit that it is on the pitch of the Hague conventions and the consequences that are being fought for the international crime, which is the burning of war. This is happening in Ukraine, and if we do not understand it, we cannot adequately enter the new situation that we have found ourselves in. In a new way we will also have to define the Bulgarian national interest. Until now, it seemed possible for us to say to each other, as Bai Ganyo says: we are well with the devil, and to God, we are throwing a cross. We are in NATO, we are in the European Union, but somehow we can de facto act like some neutral country and pretend to be a national interest. This era is over. The national interest will be clearly from now on in our unity within the European Union and NATO.. not as loyalty to anyone else, as much is abused in this concept, but as platforms within which we will realize the daily interests of Bulgaria, its security, its ability to develop as a free and sovereign state, to make its own choices on how to organise its defence. Because this war is not a war between two countries. This is not a Russian-Ukrainian war. This war is an aggression of a dictator against the very foundation of international order, that international order in which we build Bulgaria as a free, democratic and European country, such as the ideals of the Revivals, based on which this statehood is based. Yeah, that's right. That's what Putin is fighting against. This government will have to deal with this new reality and will have to build new consensus in it. And even today, in this discussion, we can see how hard it is to exceed our desire for conjunctural blows, to exchange established clichés between us, which in many ways are from yesterday, from that day on. But this government will have the enormous task of building new consensus. This is the new understanding of the Bulgarian national interest. This is the understanding that while there is also a Russian who opposes Putin, despite all the violence, despite all the brainwashing, despite all the repression, this war is with Putin and our opposition is to his policy, but it is not against the Russian people. Thank God Russia is still the same. There are still people who are against fratrition, people who, at great risks to themselves, scientists, intellectuals, ordinary teachers outside Moscow, people who go out on the street, thank God, to remind us that this war is not against the Russian people, but this war is about Bulgarian freedom and everything we value. So this government will have to solve this difficult task. This government and its prime minister have the right to elect a defence minister with whom Mr. Petkov can work. We will support him today in this choice. We will support him today in recalibrating his team so that he can cope with this huge task that is ahead of him. And today, taking this step, we will call on ourselves: to understand all our differences that will not disappear and should not disappear, that we all together should support Mr. Petkov and this government in the extremely complicated situation in which our country has proved to be. So, Mr. Petkov, treat our voice by "Democratic Bulgaria" today as a confirmation of our support for this government, for this government, for this coalition. I call on everyone to bear this in mind as a vote of confidence in this government, because its success is really much greater than that cliché is now true, in this situation it will also be a success for Bulgaria. Bulgaria, which will really need to realise much more clearly: where its national interest lies; what is the price of freedom that we have so far become accustomed to as something that falls like rain and as the sun; what is the cost of our ability to develop as an independent European, liberal, free, democratic state. These are the ideals of our reborns, of the fathers and mothers who founded this country. This has a price, and today we will realise it much more clearly, and this cabinet, and this government will have to work through it, for it and with it for this consensus to be at the heart of the Bulgarian policy in order to succeed together. So, Prime Minister, to you, to your team, to the new military minister you are proposing, I wish you success because he is vital to our country! Thank you. [[(Applause from the..Democratic Bulgaria...........................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines to Mr. Hristo Ivanov? There's a line from Kostadin Kostadinov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u99	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Ivanov, you said in the beginning that this is something that is unprecedented. In fact, unfortunately, it is not. It would have been perhaps less evil if it were unprecedented, but it is not, because in the same words in 1999, the peacekeeping operation began, as they then called it, NATO in Yugoslavia. The words were: to protect Albanians in Kosovo and to enable the Serbian people to freely choose their development. One to one with what Putin is saying now, only in the place of the Albanians put Russians in Donbas, in the place of the Serbian people put the Ukrainian people and you will get one to one, only 23 years later. When Clinton's predecessor, who started this operation in 1999, began the operation against Iraq in 1991, George Bush Sr., he used the same words................................................................................. There is nothing surprising about this, for the United States since 1945 has not officially waged any war. They did more than 50 military operations, but never war, as in 1983, as in the military operation for the occupation of Grenada, which at that time may have a population of 100,000 people, because there was doubt of three American students being detained. These are unfortunately bad precedents that are happening in Ukraine as well. Here on this issue, we have no two opinions. But when I listen to what pathos condemn Putin's aggression here, it's as if we're in the American Senate. I can understand them Americans for them Putin is the enemy, only for us it isn't. And that's why the big question here is this... [[Replications from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva.]] Yes, for us Bulgarians is not because we have no enemy relations with Russia. If anyone here thinks there are any, let them come back and replicate me or get a douche bag. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The main thing I want to remind you is this...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u100	Your line's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u101	Yeah, thanks, but just two more seconds. The main thing I would like to remind you of and once again to make a remark is this: when we condemn this aggression at the moment, because it is the fact that there is an aggression of Russia and that is not acceptable, we should in the same way condemn all other such aggressions, and we do not, which is a manifestation of hypocrisy. I'm against hypocrisy. We're defending the truth, whether it's Americans or Russians. This is what, by the way, makes a large part of the Bulgarian people angry because violence is being committed against the truth. There's nothing different than what the Americans have been doing so far, but we're acting like Americans...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u102	The weather, Mr. Kostadinov. We get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u103	...not to say what, so I don't insult my own people and my own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u104	Thank you. Second line is from Dimitar Gochev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, perhaps as part of your speech you should have added, as this is the main point of reference that is being spoken in the public space, and how this was exactly the same case. Obviously, it's not the same case. My colleague Kostadinov is right that rhetoric is the same, but behind this rhetoric lies absolutely different facts. In Kosovo, we have many different solutions and acts that show that there was really a crime against humanity and ethnic cleansing and various international authorities have said this, including the International Court of Justice for the former Yugoslavia, the Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. From this point of view, perhaps you should have explained that when it came to Kosovo, there were real facts, and now there are merely naked statements about the so-called words being used insulting there. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u106	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. Is there a third line to Mr. Ivanov? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u107	Mr. Gochev, thank you. You're absolutely right! I don't think we should, maybe we should, but today we can't turn it into an international law seminar and list all those acts of international organisations, including the United Nations, as you said, and the International Criminal Court, and so on, which make the difference between what Putin does and what the international community did then, by the way. By the way, any criticism that could be done in relation to the then actions of the US government was a criticism that freely in America, across the free world, in the media, in the parliaments, in the American Senate, in American politics was heard and was part of the free debate, from decision making. Because you said Putin wasn't our enemy. It's not our enemy, because it's a tyrant who tyrannizes his own people. For the sake of his own survival and began this bloody adventure. That will never be forgiven by the Russians, Mr. Gochev. They'll never forgive him. It's a crime against Russia, first of all, and from this point of view, it's our enemy. He is our enemy because he is attacking a peaceful people, as is Ukrainian, and whatever claims anyone has to have towards the state of Ukraine, and there is, and it is possible, war is not the way to solve them. There's a concept of proportionality called. Putin is our enemy and because his war is really not just for Ukraine. His war is a war to redefine the situation in Eastern Europe and it is therefore very important to speak things with their name. Our national interest is that Eastern Europe should not be part of the imperial periphery. Our national interest is for Eastern Europe to be able to determine for itself the countries of Eastern Europe to make their own decisions about their security and how they will guarantee it and from this point of view yes, Putin is our enemy. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The next statement is by Alexander Nenkov or... [[Reply.]] Okay. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u109	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, fellow MPs! I'll get the debate back where I think it belongs. Today we are debating the composition of the government, and I think we should be debating the whole formula of governance, which has already been exhausted over the last few days. That's why we're having this debate today. Neither Kosovo is the reason, nor even if you will, Ukraine, the reason is that this government is exhausted on the second month of its existence. And why is it exhausted? Look at the coalition agreement and the management program as far as there is one. There you will see priorities that are no longer adequate at the moment. I'm not saying it's your fault, so it happened that you changed the whole picture. Now imagine the election was yesterday. I am absolutely sure that this government would not be in this formula and in this construction that it would not have as its patron Rumen Radev that it would not have included BSP and so on and so forth. This means that this formula is exhausted. You don't want to see it that's your problem. You will pay the political price for this, because when politics does not comply with the realities, it begins to live in its own world, but it does not cancel the price that politicians who live in their own world pay afterwards. Secondly, for the words you are right about the words. No, the Minister has no right to personal opinion, Mr. Petkov, the Prime Minister also has no right to personal opinion, because the Prime Minister represents the whole country and every word of it is on behalf of Bulgaria, especially when it comes to international issues. What did the Bulgarian state say in the last days? What did the Bulgarian state just say in your face? That with friends like us, you don't need enemies. Well, I tell you, if we weren't such friends, you would have gone to the European Union a few days ago without having a mandate to talk at all about sanctions, because one of your coalition partners is against sanctions, and despite the vote of your group, the declaration is being seen on Thursday and a few hours later you could have been standing on the Council of the European Union and making decisions, otherwise you would have been in an awkward situation and you would have been placed by your own parliamentary group, not by anyone else. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] When we give you a hand, understand, you're in a different situation. What the BSP is telling you is not true. No, the priority of this government is not to scratch GERB anymore. Yeah, maybe he was. Maybe that, too, let's say, had grounds. He's not like that anymore. Now the priority is saving the state in a very difficult situation, and if you don't understand that, then I am extremely worried about the state, and I see that you don't understand it. You don't understand it in any way. You must unite, reach an agreement in society. You must agree between the government and the opposition. You are not able to reach an agreement in your own coalition, not in everything else. And when you are given a hand, you cannot understand that this is a hand lodged, not a provocation and this is no longer just your problem, it is a problem of the whole of Bulgaria. Thank you. And soon everyone will know that. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u110	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Ananiev, for a line. Mr. Hristo Ivanov for a second line. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u111	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bikov, the priorities that are not adequate at this time. It is very interesting to specifically identify these priorities, because the fight against corruption is an appropriate priority, is it not adequate? Is the independent judicial system adequate or inadequate? Good standard of living and income of Bulgarian citizens is it adequate or not adequate? So, when you go out with this pathos, screaming, excitement and emotion, let's still state what your priorities are, to see if they are different from our priorities, as I think the government has stated very clearly the priorities that are for the Bulgarian citizens and is following them urgently. And about the smoke that you released that the National Assembly's declaration almost gave some power to the Council of Ministers, take a look at this Constitution. It says very clearly that foreign and domestic policy is defined by the Council of Ministers.. There is no need for a declaration of the National Assembly on this thing. Thank you. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS, applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u112	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u113	Mr. Bikov, we agree with you and I said so, and you say that we are in a whole new situation where we will have to look for new grounds for consensus, but they will not be entirely new. What unites the majority of those who voted in the previous elections has not disappeared. This is also part of the understanding of this reality that we are in. It adds to itself new priorities, new huge challenges, but they, if you think honestly, are part of the problems we have from the previous period. The state of corruption of the Bulgarian state, of corruption decomposition of all its systems and institutions is not something we can just forget because the war has started in Ukraine, but we have to deal with it even more. Yes, we must seek consensus, and I will say: this coalition, in the face of this challenge, naturally, is added to it an additional difficulty, but in fact it is a very good reason for seeking this national consensus. In fact, this government, if it succeeds, and I believe that it will be able to handle it, we will work for it, it may be the best luck that Bulgaria has to seek precisely to build such a consensus. [[Heckling]] Yeah, lucky I said. So it will be small and by the will of the Most High, but we will also have to work for this will. And one last thing, look, if you've backed something right, don't present it as some kind of service you've done to someone. As if you could do something right not to do it, because this is also not a good basis for work and consensus. Let us not be so subtle, let us not act as if we are doing favors for each other when we are fighting for national interest, as we understand it, and when we have to adapt to a whole new situation. Once again, this government we will work for. This governance may prove to be the best basis for building a national consensus on topics that so far seemed impossible to be the subject of such. Thanks. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u114	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line from Hristo Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, Mr. Bikov! Mr. Bikov, and you, since everything is so fine in the coalition, did you understand why the minister candidate changed yesterday for today because I didn't? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u116	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. For the doppelganger, Mr. Bikov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, back to Mr. Gajev. Yes, I understand because the BSP vetoed Mr. Tagarev, so if anyone doesn't know it, let them know it. Otherwise, there was another candidate. However, here comes the question of who makes the decisions in this coalition because it is not clear. Because everyone has their own position, they say, on an important matter. And here I will go to Mr. Ivanov. Did you know that BSP does not support sanctions for which you want to be the strictest and most firm? That's the big problem right now. Yes, you can find a reason, I don't dispute that, you can find a reason, but that doesn't mean that neither stability means nor a line means behavior, nor, I repeat, adequate priorities. Because fighting corruption can serve as an excuse for anything. Be assured that there is corruption in your government as well! Be sure! And you can see it, and you can see it more and more. Why do you think angels have appointed ministers? Because I don't see angels in this government, Mr. Ivanov. On the contrary, some people are quite suspicious...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u118	Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u119	...and the interests behind them. We are yet to discuss here and we are going to debate the resignations and reformation of at least the composition of the government. And that's why I'm telling you, don't stand there, as the people say: don't stand on this wheel of corruption. It gives energy for a while, gives fuel, only it's up to time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u120	Mr. Bikov, we're deviating from the topic of today's debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u121	You have a real challenge right now. I answer to Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Chairman. He's talking about corruption. I don't know what the debate was then.! To Mr. Ananiev, what you are saying, because you are perhaps the most experienced MP in.. We continue the Change.... We continue the Change................................. the most experienced politician................................... and we continue the Change.................................................................................................................................................................. What better life is your priority? What does a better life mean? What does a better life mean? Are you going to raise your salaries, something is going to increase the standard of living right now? Do you know what happens 200 km from Bulgaria? You know, the gas is already over 3 lv.? Did you know that the economic consequences of the coronavirus are yet to be seen as a song? Do you realize? You're a very luxurious majority, you're all very luxurious types. You think it's all a presentation. [[Applause from GREB-SDS]] No, guys, it's not a presentation this thing! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u122	Mr. Bikov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u123	It's war! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u124	...I remind you that we are all MPs here. If some colleagues are qualified as types, it automatically means that you should define yourself as such. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for procedure. [[Radio, noise and lines by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. I don't agree with you trying to interrupt Mr. Bikov while talking about corruption. Because when we talk about this particular change in the cabinet's composition, we are talking about the face of the cabinet as a whole and about the reasons why we from "Democratic Bulgaria" continue to support it. We believe that the fight against corruption is a major part of this reason for voting for this decision. In this sense, we must say that, Mr. Bikov, the fight against corruption is not a fight against specific corrupt persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u126	To me, Mr. Ivanov, please, the procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u127	For us, it's an effort... I'll go back to the procedure. ...to make it possible not to be corrupt, including in our government, because I don't claim that there is an angel in our government, people are all of us. And people, as Stanislav says, Jerzy Letz, are divided into two kinds of fallen angels and raised devils. So this office is made up of people and there should be justice for them, too. We will also vote on this for this coalition, for this government, so that we can work on it. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u128	I didn't understand the procedure, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Vasil Stefanov is listed for a speech. Mr. Stefanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! The Council of Ministers and the National Assembly are taking clear action on the situation in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, this is not just a conflict, this is war. I am glad that almost everyone in this room is aware of this fact. Almost all of them. This is the reason why it is important to clarify the messages and strategic orientation that guarantees the future of the Republic of Bulgaria. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is clearly stated that the Prime Minister directs and coordinates the common policy of the government and is responsible for it. In accordance with art. 105, para. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers directs and implements the foreign and domestic policy of the country and also provides national security. In this context, the Council of Ministers and personally Prime Minister Petkov clearly and categorically defined the position Bulgaria has taken in relation to the war in Ukraine. As early as 24 February, Kiril Petkov said in a statement that Bulgaria will speak in one voice with the European Union and NATO regarding the unprovoked aggression by Putin towards Ukraine. Here I would like to say very clearly that we are not against the Russian people, we are against Putin's actions and the military actions he is imposing. For example, closing our airspace to Russian civil aviation is not an independent and isolated act. This is a common policy of the entire European Union. These are also financial restrictions, as part of them were even personal " against Putin and Foreign Minister Lavrov of the Russian Federation. These actions clearly show the unity of the European Union and the place of Bulgaria in it. The support for these actions at the same time guarantees precisely our national security, as our country is also a member of NATO, apart from the European Union. Bulgaria has already chosen the path of deescalation of tensions, the path of disapproval of aggression and the desire to end the military action immediately. This is a position in which all countries who do not want to take the path of war are united. If Bulgaria does not take the country of peace, then Bulgaria indirectly supports Putin's actions, it also wavers the unity of the Union on the issue. Bulgaria should be a voice to be heard. Bulgaria should do its best to prevent the deepening of the war. For these reasons, the parliamentary group of "We continue the Change" is behind Prime Minister Kiril Petkov and supports him. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u130	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. To make a statement, Daniel Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! I'm sorry the Prime Minister isn't here. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At times of crisis and severe tectonic geopolitical shifts by the Bulgarian government is expected to make serious and stable decisions. It is expected to seek national consensus on the challenges to our belonging to alliances, whose values are mostly contested from the outside, but they also find soil in part of the Bulgarian society because of the increased Russian propaganda. The government has so far failed in several respects. First, identify the danger of a war near our border. If the opposition hadn't alerted us and hadn't awakened to some extent the institutions, you probably wouldn't have known to this day what was going on. And all the signs were there: firstly, an unfulfilled ultimatum towards NATO, a mobilization of troops along the Ukrainian border by the Russian Federation, a deepening aggressive rhetoric of the Kremlin in relation to Ukraine, the withdrawal of Western diplomats and citizens from Kiev. What else was supposed to happen?! The Bulgarian state had to enter prepared in this situation, not to act inferno hock, taking sporadic and often poorly paid decisions from public support. Secondly, the government is composed of elements that have a very different, often diametrically opposite reading of the situation and are united only by the irrational and deeply non-political resentment towards the political opponent. In such crises, the majority, and in particular the Prime Minister, are obliged to find maximum public consensus on important issues. With great torments and conventions, the Bulgarian Parliament was able to adopt a declaration on the war in Ukraine, after pressure from the opposition. But to this day, the ruling majority claims that part of it does not support sanctions against the Russian Federation. And the prime minister went to Brussels and supported the sentencing regime, which, albeit rightly, shows that the ruling coalition has broken up on a geopolitical basis. I ask Mr. Petkov how from now on he will make decisions corresponding to the challenges ahead? Because the hard days are coming, and your partners are obviously determined to block you where they can. Do you, Mr. Petkov, have the authority to point the way and to ledate convincingly? You can't tell that yet. The government also fails in the main directions of the common policy.. it fails to deal with the high electricity bills for business and end-users. You offer them credits to pay their electricity bills, which is cynicism. You have adopted a budget that, in addition to being left, will deprive us of the prospects for euro area membership and forecast unrealistic values for economic growth and inflationary pressure. Not to mention that this budget does not take into account the effects of the war in Ukraine and is practically useless. At the same time, Bulgarian society is fighting another continuing war with the coronavirus pandemic. Today, nearly 3,000 infected people are reported. The number of the deceased is also alarming, and the government is frozen with nothing to brag about, just like bragging about buses. In fact, today we should not only discuss the resignation of the Minister of Defence, but the entire government. It is obvious to everyone that this coalition format cannot solve the big problems in front of the Bulgarian society and is not at the height of expectations. And Minister Yanev's positions were obvious from the moment he was acquitted of his personal opinion. Why did you have to wait to create a situation where the Minister of Defense frankly opposed the official government position, calling the war a military operation using the aggressor's terminology? When did Mr. Yanev become your minister, Mr. Petkov? Yesterday you were his in the office, and in fact almost all of you belong to the godfather of this coalition Rumen Radev. To clarify terminologically and stop arguing about whether it's a military operation or a war, I'll tell you this: a military operation is a one-time limited operation of time and terrain. The war involves multiple military operations. Military operations are components of the war. What we see in Ukraine is a war of the Russian Federation and numerous military operations in Kiev. We saw Harkov bombed, hostilities in Chernigov and Vinitsa not to list all the places because there are many. There are fighting there, and all this axiomatic is war. And let's stop with the crazy exercise on the subject. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u132	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Here you go, Mr. Petrov, for a line. I specify that the group's time has been extended, so GERB-SDS has three registered MPs for speech. Consider this circumstance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleague Mitov, with one part of your speech, I do not agree with the fact that the Bulgarian state went unprepared to this situation. At this point, I wonder and ask myself how she would be prepared to react in a diplomatic place. Well, seeing what pro-American rhetoric is being followed at the moment, if the same was expressed weeks or months earlier, I fear that at least we, as a small country, might have provoked the so-called war at the moment with such rhetoric, expressed in diplomatic terms. I wonder how the Bulgarian state would be prepared to help those who are interested in Bulgarian self-awareness, in Ukraine, as I found out yesterday that both the consulate and the embassy in Ukraine are closed. And I ask myself, if they had closed them a few weeks ago or months ago, how would that qualify as help, as an approach by the Bulgarian state? If people with Bulgarian self-consciousness at the moment in Ukraine decide to prove their Bulgarian origin with a view to taking a visa and a residence permit in Bulgaria, where exactly will they apply, by law being obliged to apply in the country in which they reside. I cannot accept that this is a preparation by the Bulgarian state. Not now, not a few weeks or a few months ago. Next, I am struck by a heretic thought that this unpreparedness of the Bulgarian state is due, on the one hand, to the actions of the previous regular government, and thank God, that we did not react in this way earlier, even in military nature, due to the actions of the previous regular government, because I personally remember how we recently consecrated rubber boats for the army. I remember how we're still waiting for blueprints of fighters that we can defend ourselves with as a country. I remember that even now we're being guarded by fighters from Brother Spain. So how exactly to prepare the Bulgarian state somehow does not make it clear to me, and not since yesterday or that day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u134	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Is there a second line? I can't see. Stanislav Balabanov is listed for a speech. Here you go, Mr. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u135	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers, honourable Members! Mr. Prime Minister, there is a people who will strongly support you and vote for the resignation of Minister Yanev because of the fact that after a little over 500 kilometers by sea there is a war going on, I repeat a war, and they are dying peaceful citizens, it is not at all about any operations. A whole del, Mr. Prime Minister, listening to the hands cast, quotes, by the opposition. We don't have to accept them. Because in the so-called opposition, quotes, there are enough fake characters, Mr. Prime Minister. Because those here, colleagues from GERB, who in 2016 defended Putin's interests, who is currently fighting a war in Ukraine, pushing Turkish flow and bypassing Ukraine, are talking today about Euro-Atlantic values. And the colleagues from the back of the ARC Mr. Kostadinov, who clearly defends Russian interests and this is visible to all of us, should rather check and control his MPs, specifically a lady who is currently behind him because there are facts, and social networks, Prime Minister, remember these facts. And as they renegotiate their funding conditions and the rubles they can still take, I can quote some words from Mrs. Guncheva from years ago, on the date when she brutally killed an independent person in Moscow, as Boris Nemtsov was, I would like to highlight a comment from her social networks. Elena Guncheva: In Russia there has always been only terror, and Putin is the worst thing after Stalin. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u136	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. Mrs. Guncheva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u137	Mr. Chairman, I want the right to a personal explanation! Apparently the gentleman here must be controlled by Mr. Trifonov, who doesn't know what his deputies are doing. Apparently for Mr. Balabanov, the biggest problem in this country is Facebook comments 7 years ago. I will not comment on this comment, which is being played by you on social networks, as I have no intention of proving that I have no sister. I didn't write anything like that, nor do I intend to justify myself or explain myself. What I call you, Mr. Balabanov, is in the name of your quadruple coalition not to sell the interests of Bulgaria, because that is what you are doing right now! Because all of you have ranked as "Koziak" to seek your power, including BSP, which has proved it again today! Because I am ashamed of all of you who are currently betraying the Bulgarian national interests! Because the price will pay the Bulgarian people, not you! I don't think one of you will go to Canada, the other to Israel, the third who knows where! But we're staying here because this is our country! Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Mr. Kostadinov, come in for a second line. [[Reply.]] It was a line, and that's how it was counted as time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u139	There is a Bulgarian proverb that says so: "The Thief cries out: Hold the thief! " The people who do not leave the American Embassy and receive their salaries from there, to explain here about Russian interests, to tell me that we are defending Russian interests, provided that it is clear today that your government, Balabanov, is evacuating the Bulgarian diplomats from Odessa and Kiev! Who will protect our interests there?! Every day we are in contact with Bulgarians, but not Bulgarian citizens, because they are several hundred, who are only Bulgarian citizens, and they are currently, if they are not all evacuated, will be evacuated. But what do we do with these nearly a quarter of a million Bulgarians who are the third largest ethnic group in Ukraine after the Russians and Romanians? We're more than Hungarians, we're more than Poles, and we're unofficially half a million! Well, we're not doing anything right now because you, the great defenders of Bulgarian national interests, Balabanov, evacuated them today. And this thing is treason! You're national traitors! Because when there's a situation like this...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u140	Mr. Kostadinov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u141	...do not evacuate! I apologize, I have the right to a personal explanation because we were called the advocates of foreign interests by people who are currently doing exactly what others are trying to pin on others! I'll tell you again, the thief is shouting, "Hold the thief!" It's you! That is why your government is currently harmful because in a situation where there is no military action in Odessa at the moment, except that the Ukrainian government has given out to all those who want, have a desire, weapons; and at the moment in the centre of Odessa is shooting, but it is being shot by bandit formations because there is no Russian military; because even the official American information has shown that the Russians are more than 200 km away; at the moment we have no one to protect our Bulgarian compatriots there! And that's only because of you and your traitorous obituary and Maykoprodavian politics! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u142	Mr. Kostadinov! Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u143	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Do you know who these 190 people are we're evacuating right now? Do you know how many women and children there are in these buses? You, being such a man, why aren't you there right now in Odessa, taking the trips or saving the Bulgarians? [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] Not practice on empty rhetoric here from the stands?! Last night at 3:00 we carried children, women, people with Bulgarian passports... [[Reply from the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u144	Where? Why aren't you in Ukraine? [[Extreme lines by the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u145	Mr. Kostadinov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u146	Where are you? Here on the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u147	Mr. Kostadinov, please take your place. On the basis of art. 155 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, Mr. Kostadinov, for the crossing of the permissible rhetoric, I impose a penalty on you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Is there a third line to Mr. Balabanov's statement? Mr. Balabanov, the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, judging by the behavior of the people of rebirth, we are on the right track, especially when the facts prove it. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u149	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. To speak, Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u150	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable colleagues! I want to start with something positive, Mr. Prime Minister, congratulations to be Prime Minister means to make tough decisions and be responsible for them. After two months of analysis, you have shown that you can make decisions and have finally tried to accommodate yourself in Prime Minister's shoes. Another question is that you may have confused the left and right shoe. And quite collegiately to point out a change in the composition of the Council of Ministers is your exclusive responsibility and there is no need to convene for this the Council of Ministers, and you have no right to call the National Assembly a pet. By the way, there is a wonderful organization, says the School of Politics. There are many representatives of the youth structures of the parties, young municipal councillors teach them these things, you can sign up. The Minister's shift is not a disaster. The Minister's shift is not a disaster, and don't expect me to give some opposition howling about it. The second month, and the Secretary of Defense in this situation, is symptomatic, but we'll talk about it in a moment. In the last two years, Goethe's quotes have become practically used as a universal indicator of political dynamics. And here you probably think that I will use a quote that President Radev has used for two years. "There is nothing more dangerous than the active nonsense. Prime Minister, tell us what happened! Including what is the reason why your last-minute candidate was replaced yesterday? Only the truth will make us free. [[Reply from Prime Minister Kiril Petkov.]] And one last thing. A little over two months ago, I told you that a political structure that is based on nothing else but denial, hatred, will not stay stable for a long time and will not do anything. Today I remind you for the first time, let's see when it's the last time. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u151	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Are there any lines? I can't see. To speak, Mr. Christian Vigenin. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, honourable Members! There was a lot of pathos in the stands today. However, we are going through a period where there is no need for many words... there is a need for action, and it is a period in which every word and every action have great significance. Therefore, we need to be very careful, to consider each step carefully, to be guided not by the emotion of the moment, but by thinking about our long-term goals, about the long-term interests of Bulgaria. Today, it is important to bring peace and confidence to the Bulgarian citizens that the institutions work, that they work for Parliament, Government, President. After a series of elections last year, a complex coalition was formed. This coalition has shown that it is able to overcome great difficulties and challenges, to find compromises in the name of Bulgaria's development. Now we have a new, unprecedented crisis, and it is testing each and every one of us, demanding wisdom and coolness. Essentially about the occasion that brought us together. BSP is a responsible party - we will not leave Bulgaria without parliament and government, especially when there is a war on a throw away from us. As the second party in the coalition, we are well aware of our role at this time. The BSP is also a party with principles. We will not compromise with our principles. That is why we warn that there are red lines beyond which we will not cross. I believe that our partners will comply with this, just as we do with regard to "We are continuing the Change" "There is such a people" and "Democratic Bulgaria" so far. Any assistance to Ukraine will be given our full support, but arms will not. BSP is a stabilizing factor in both the government and the government in most cases. I believe no one can deny that fact. Today we have to say that deep dividing lines are emerging in society. Whoever doesn't see it doesn't understand what's happening. It is our common task to seek unity, to seek a solid foundation around which to build common solutions. This also applies to the ruling parties, but also to the opposition. Our coalition, as it is, gives us a chance, so we have to use it. Polarisation of positions can undermine irreversibly confidence not only in us as a ruling coalition, but in the institutions at all. We accept the right to continue the Change to withdraw and offer ministers from its quota. This is also part of the coalition agreement. In this case, the step is particularly painful because in the face of a severe international crisis, a change of defence minister is proposed. It is no secret that the voters of BSP have their sympathy for Stefan Yanev and he deserves good words for his work in the executive power. We cannot, however, disregard his position that he no longer sees his place in this government structure, nor can we allow a contradiction between a prime minister and a defence minister, especially now. We will support Mr. Zakov's candidacy for Secretary of Defense. And here we must mark with respect the prime minister's willingness to seek a candidacy to unite the coalition. This, gentlemen of the opposition, is strength, not weakness. I would like to draw attention to something in Ambassador Zakov's biography, which, I think, was not explicitly mentioned, namely his work on the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe as part of the management team of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This certainly gives him a very thorough view on Russian policy and on the development of the conflict in and around Ukraine from the very beginning to the present day. In today's events, this is very valuable. Finally, I believe that from today we will come out stronger - and our coalition, but even more important - Parliament and the government, because this is for the good of Bulgaria, for stability, for security and foresight in these difficult days, weeks and months ahead. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u153	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Mr. Tsoncho Ganev. Mr. Ganev, I'm just stating that your group has about one minute, maybe a little more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u154	Mr. Chairman, one minute. When Mr. Balabanov spoke and justified his foreign minister, when he became Prime Minister and started defending and talking about transporting buses and calling for us to have gone to Ukraine, I would like to explicitly point out, because, obviously, he did not again understand that there are over 250 thousand people in Ukraine who are designated as Bulgarians, and you have currently withdrawn all Bulgarian diplomats, you closed the doors...................................................... all of their cars have gone away.. This is tantamount to betrayal against these people, because some of them may need the Bulgarian state and someone should open the embassy to them, advise them, tell them and support them. And you drew all Bulgarian diplomats! What's more, you pulled the cars! It's a national betrayal of the people who are there, not here. It's very easy here to shake your head and replicate, but those people there right now need those diplomats who left.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u155	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Any lines to that statement? I can't see. Mrs. Desislava Atanasova for speech last recorded at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the Council of Ministers, the Political Party GERB and our parliamentary group have always had a clear and strong position - Bulgaria is part of the European Union and is part of NATO. In addition, we have proved that our country is above all else, that our countrymen living here or outside our homeland are above everything. And we are convinced that today, at this moment, Bulgaria needs unity and a national responsible position. Bulgaria in a time of war less than 300 km away also needs a defence minister who knows that there is a war going on there. GERB will vote for the resignation of Minister Stefan Yanev, but today in this debate it has become clear and something else "that today is the day 78th of your government." That is, in less than 80 days, we are witnessing the first spectacular failure after the many daily failures of your strange structure, the weakest from the point of view of electoral support, the weakest from the point of view of public support, the weakest from the point of view of ideological compatibility and legitimacy governance. From day one, you have no meaningful management solution to either the price of electricity or measures against inflation, for business or for the impact of the crisis, we do not have a recovery and sustainability plan. The adopted budget of the quarter is no longer relevant. Even the issue of national security separates you. One thinks there is no war and the other thinks there should be no sanctions. And if, Mr. Prime Minister, and today you feel that no one has the right to their own opinion, then why is Mrs. Ninova not resigning to Mr. Yanev's, who continues to say that he is against the sanctions that you already supported at the European Council held days ago? On December 13th, you proposed A team. Is this the "A" team? We've already found out that A might mean amateurs, and that's a quote again. Yesterday, we were offered a draft vote in today's extraordinary plenary session, which you have called for a draft election of the Minister of Defence. It was some kind of plan, or some kind of butaphory. This morning, in less than 12 hours of your previous decision, you already have a plan that is cynical in our view that you can not make one decision in your coalition government, but have the confidence that you can rule the entire country. Do you realize that this is daily abusing not only the National Assembly, but this is daily abusing the Bulgarian people? You will not be forgiven for chaotic actions and everyday mistakes. So you, Prime Minister, don't even have one grammatical true sentence, whether your public written positions are in Bulgarian or English. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u157	Mrs. Atanasova, we're way off topic here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u158	We're not straying from the subject at all! The theme is that the government is pathetic and no matter how much change it offers...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u159	We're not in a no-confidence procedure, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u160	...I hope, Mr. Prime Minister, that we will soon vote on another resignation, and that this is yours and the entire Council of Ministers. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u161	Thank you for your wishes, Mrs. Atanasova. For a line, Mr. Bojankov. Then Mr. Yordanov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So much for the myth of constructive opposition, calls for unity and constructive behaviour during conflict and war. In fact, today's debate is about the qualities of the Minister of Defense. I believe that the cabinet, Mrs. Atanasova, is making one strong move, and no one in this direction has put out, even you in your speech, arguments in another direction - is it a bad professional, is there a bad biography? Apparently not. Obviously the choice is good, but obviously your goal is different. This statement, in which you are looking for yet another attempt at confrontation, personal insults, personal qualifications, and I recall during the budget vote 120 procedures in the manner of conduct, 300 questions to block the work of the Council of Ministers during a military conflict, during a crisis you tried to stop the adoption of the budget. As long as he is not accepted, there is no way to conduct committees, no way to adopt legislation, no way to work for our country. And despite your attempts at frank sabotage, we were able to do our job, accept the budget. And today's debate is a continuation of your behavior. You just made an open request that you want the government to resign, that is, early elections, new elections for the fifth time, another election, you want to throw Bulgaria in new elections right now?! At this point, you just said you wanted another election?! Explain this to the Bulgarian citizens!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u163	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Toshko Yordanov for line two. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Atanasova, my line is for you. Exactly GERB to talk about unprincipled coalitions, given that you were with "Attack," NFSB, the degenerate VMRO, in which Dzhambazki is present. It is you who are talking about the infirmity of power, given that I am talking about your political party, and you as a spokesperson in this case, talking about the infirmity of power, given that the prime minister was, and unfortunately, he is still your leader, a face, is called a goonsuratlak. [[Shouting from GERB: "Eee! "]] [[(Noise and lines by GERB, applause by]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u165	Mr. Yordanov, and you are called on not to make such personal insults especially to people who are not present in the Chamber. For the third line please, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Atanasova, no matter how many times you step out of this platform and read the same statement about how the government fails to handle its obligations, whether at first reading of the budget, whether at second reading of the budget, whether at the change of minister, it will not be true because the energy crisis has mastered the government. [[Laughter at GERB]] , and the health crisis... Yeah, laugh, laugh! Laugh! And Mrs. Atanasova, if this government is so weak, why have you been proposing to enter this governing coalition for two weeks? [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. We are continuing the Change and the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why do you constantly want to participate when these ministers are so weak and they do not lead Bulgaria on the right path? Or are you looking for your own salvation as a party to somehow get stuck in power? Nobody wants you. They told you that. The Prime Minister told you that too. And no matter how much you offer yourself, you cannot become a partner of this government that was created to suppress the problems and storms that you created in 12 years. You're talking about a management program. A cabinet composed of several crises that you set out on the 78th day of the government, has a coalition agreement and operates and implements the coalition agreement. Do you know what month your program was adopted in a calm environment, in a normal state of parliament, in a full majority of only two parties? The fourth month, Mrs. Atanasova. What management program do you ask and press when you yourself did not have a management program for four months? [[the President signals that time has run out]] [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u167	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Svilensky, you're really out of time and space. Let me tell you that yesterday all the hospitals of the municipality, state, private, sent a letter to the Council of Ministers and to all the parliamentary groups asking for government assistance so that they could pay for their electricity. All the municipalities have turned off the lights on their streets. [[Voices by "Keep On Changing": "Eee!"]] What kind of crisis did you deal with? Is it inflation, which is now a two-digit number? Or the migrant crisis? Do you know how many illegal migrants come every day from the Bulgarian-Turkish border? Ask Rashkov, he's here, he can answer you. Why isn't debate about qualities? On the contrary, Mr. Bojankov! There have been speeches from our parliamentary group, which have noted the qualities for the candidate for the Minister.. the new candidate for the Minister plan....................... but no one heard why Mr. Tagarev, who until last night was a candidate, announced by the Prime Minister in the Council of Ministers, will not be a candidate for the Minister. I can tell you. Because the BSP has set a condition: either you withdraw it or the government falls. Prime Minister, to tell you that such conditions were put in another format. Then BSP was in such a situation and they voted the government, that, however, fell after a year, so you can take note of past events, from history back in time. Finally, for management weakness or management power. Yes, Mr. Yordanov can speak the most about management power. The ruling power of ICN consists in one thing: two candidates for prime ministers broadcast by ICN and one...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u169	Two?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u170	Yes, Mr. Nikolay Vassilev, and a colleague who sold snorkels. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u171	Mrs. Atanasova, respect!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u172	The colleague who gave up on the day of the Council of Ministers' vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u173	Here you are, Mr. Nikolov, for a personal explanation, I presume.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u174	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I think that politics has taken huge amounts and many of us are forgetting why we are here today. I gave up being your Prime Minister, Mrs. Atanasova. Vash, I mean, because you would have chosen me. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u175	In the manner of leading us to hear a procedure from Alexander Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. Here, from the platform of the National Assembly, many things are said, unfortunately, fewer and fewer of them truths, and while colleagues on the left side of the Chamber blamed the opposition for sabotaging the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, only to remind them the next time they say that the ruling coalition knocked down the quorum of the National Assembly twice, two days in a row while looking at the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. So apparently they wanted to sabotage the budget of the Council of Ministers, which is on the right of me. Secondly, Mr President, when you lead from the parliamentary tribune, I ask you to closely monitor the speeches from the House and to be the first among the equal, when you impose penalties, to impose them on members of the ruling majority. As was imposed a short time ago, without hearing a statement from the stands, and a statement from the Chamber, to impose on Mr. Toshko Yordanov the punishment of the Rules. You can refer to his statements when he qualifies with insulting words whether members of the Council of Ministers or political persons, at least this is not the tone that can be used by this tribune. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u177	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. [[National Representative Alexander Ivanov speaks away from the microphones.]] I didn't impose on Mr. Kostadinov, but I'll check with my colleague. First we'll check the transcript, see what Mr. Yordanov said, we don't need to analyze, not that that's a bad word. This is about Mr. Yordanov's punishment. Regarding the quorum, I also promise that I will review the votes and see which have taken the most part in the votes in the adoption of the budget. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And who have taken advantage of their right not to participate in any way, I promise that. You're welcome, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u178	Mr. Chairman, I would also like to ask you in the manner in which you are guided to check the regulations and to punish me for telling the truth. The truth is, Boyko Borisov is a mug. [[Applause from IHN and "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u179	Mr. Yordanov, in this statement, there is no need to check the transcript, you get the right answer. I would like to propose to Tosko Yordanov for his last speech. [[Noise and lines.]] In the course of the meeting, I will check it out, and as far as I understand it, we are talking about the same content. For Mr. Yordanov, there is already a second one for you and I believe that this will be enough to revise his future behavior. For a statement? Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u180	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers! The debate is about personal changes in the composition of the Council of Ministers, but it has grown in other directions as well. For example, for or against NATO, plongees and explanations in love, friendship and hostileness. I refer to GERB's parliamentary group, which initially tried to explain to the Council of Ministers that it would save him today, then the Prime Minister thanked them very politely, not to be in their shoes. Honourable Members, the situation is serious enough not to say a heavier word to have such a frivolous attitude to the subject, including the Prime Minister. Because many questions can be asked, but one who remains unanswered is what are the real reasons for the change of this minister. Obviously, it's not Facebook statements, and apparently they didn't come up today. And given that 70 days have passed since the election of the Council of Ministers, and given that the Minister in question was Prime Minister of the current Prime Minister and some of the current ministers, there are many questions which have no clear answers, and these answers should be known by the Bulgarian society at this very moment. They need to be known by our NATO partners, who we're all somehow trying to show we're their partners, and I don't know why. Because we are a full member of NATO and the European Union, and in this I do not see any serious doubts, but we continue just like this. Yesterday we had a European party forum and very serious European politicians asked us, who are defining European policy at the moment, what is going on with you? Why is the minister of war changing? Is there a breach in the government? We told them we didn't know either. It seems to me that a little deeper should have been the answer. Our entire parliamentary group feels the same way, so President Karadayi said very precisely in his statement. It is not Facebook the reason, the reason is not for two days, it is not for three days, but at this very moment to not mention things that should be known by the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian society, it does not work for the benefit of anyone, it is first. Secondly, on the issue of whether the debate is about the quality of the Council of Ministers, of course it is for. There is no debate on a personal shift in the Council of Ministers to go through anything other than an evaluation of the entire Council of Ministers, has always been so in this Chamber because that is what this is all about. Whether they change one, two, three or five ministers. I have witnessed a shift of nine out of twelve ministers during Mr. Kostov's time, again in some dramatic events when the war was in Yugoslavia, when we had to make extremely painful and difficult decisions to authorise NATO aircraft, which had to punish Milosevic's regime. So at times like this, it's not very appropriate to have laughs and banter in this room, nor wits, but there should be honest answers and honest answers we didn't hear today. There should also be honest assessments of what happened in those 17 days, and it is not commendable. I will quote Deputy Prime Minister from this cabinet Mrs. Ninova, who during the four-year reign of GERB was a fierce enough opponent and constantly reminded that there are two realities. Mrs. Ninova, there are two realities at the moment. As you were right then, so am I now. The cabinet lives in a fictional reality with regard to the measures it takes, in an absolutely fictional reality about the quality of its budget. I won't say that he no longer has any quality. The war wiped him out, but this is an objective condition. But even if there was no war, for the budget your assessment is absolutely wrong. There are two realities. Enter the reality of the people, of Bulgaria, of the dangers facing Bulgaria, of our allied obligations and of everything we are trying to do, because the other part of the debate that almost did not take place, except that Mr. Karadayi explicitly highlighted in our position, is that we do not want political instability at this time. We don't want the cabinet to fall, we don't want elections, because it would be disastrous for the country. But we want another debate, Mr. Prime Minister, we want a conversation between the institutions. Who are you going to hide from in Bulgaria that the executive power is fighting with the President again? You don't have to disprove me. I don't want to. You don't have to confirm it either. In all of Bulgaria, this is visible from everywhere, from a helicopter to watch it, you will see it. What does this contribute to this situation at the moment? Nothing! How would you explain the fact that I do not sympathize with GERB, as well as our gesture the other day with the declaration, with the continuing lack of dialogue between opposition and government? These are the elements of stability. Do not plough in front of this or that, because there is no need for ploughs when necessary, as Mr. Gurov said the other day in the declaration, Bulgarian politicians have made the right decision. We are full members of NATO and the European Union and we behave as such and as loyal true partners. But stability means dialogue between institutions, seeking maximum agreement, dialogue between political parties in the Bulgarian Parliament, which means not dialogue between the quadruple coalition, but dialogue between it and opposition parties. This is absolutely imperative in the face of such a severe crisis, which is a military crisis, there is a war! Whether we understand that, or talk here from this tribune that some minister didn't use the right term war, but he used a military operation. Well, there's a war going on, but do we understand the essence of that word? It means that you, Mr. Prime Minister, and the ruling majority, have to apply for quotes in quotes, of course, we don't want that from you, I simply use the words of an analogue, in front of all the institutions and the entire opposition, so that you can lead the country that stepped on all of them on a maximum consensus, because this will have to, this will have to! That's what we need today, and tomorrow and the day after, we're gonna have to do it with even more force, and we all understand it very well. So what are we gonna play at now? Ping-pong in a time of such a severe crisis? People don't expect that from us. They also expect us to tell them the truth, especially you. And today, you know, part of the truth was hidden? I appeal and focus on what our President Mr Karadye said.Restore the dialogue, restore the dialogue between opposition and governors, but really, the dialogue between the institutions, but true, so that we can go with consensus. Otherwise, I assure you that whatever you think of yourself, you will not succeed. Not that it was a bad expression, not that we care that you can't handle it, but that would be to the detriment of Bulgaria. We want you to handle it right now! You can't do this alone, I assure you! We'll talk about it right here. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u181	Replices to Yordan Tsonev? I won't. Any other speeches? Lyuben Dilov, I'm sorry. Mr. Dilov, 37 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u182	I'll motivate a procedural proposal at the end, Mr. Chairman, I'm just warning you. Dear all, there is no time, two questions remain completely unanswered today. One is what did the change of one night to one candidate with another? And until there is an answer to that question, there is no way we can know what we are voting for. And the second is whether General Yanev's dismissal also contains an assessment of his work as the prime minister of two offices? Does it contain such an assessment, or is it simply the Bulgarian tradition, when you become chief, to fire your former boss? Because I think it contains such an assessment, and if it does, it's nice to hear it. My procedural proposal, Mr. President, is that, if possible, votes should be split in two. That is, once we vote for Mr. Yanev's resignation, which I personally would support, and the second time we vote for the new prime minister, which I would not support.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u183	Got it. Thank you. For the new Secretary of Defense, perhaps?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u184	May God give you a new Prime Minister. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u185	Replices to Lyuben Dilov? I won't. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. Before going to the vote, there is a procedural proposal from Lyuben Dilov that the points be voted separately. For a reverse opinion? I didn't really give the floor for a reverse opinion. There's no reverse opinion. I will put to the vote Lyuben Dilov's proposal for a split vote on the points, although I think they are functionally linked, but I put it to the vote. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u186	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u187	Honest Mitev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u188	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u189	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u190	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u191	Thank you. Vote 224 MPs in the Chamber and 3 online.. 227 total: 99 against 121 in the Chamber and 3 online.. 124 abstentions 4. The offer is not accepted. Before we go to vote on the draft decision, I will read it in full: Project! DECISION for personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on 13 December 2021. (DV, No. 106 from 2021) , as amended by decision of the National Assembly of 23 December 2021 (DV, No. 110 from 2021) HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Stefan Dinchev Yanev as Minister of Defense. 2. He elected Dragomir Valeriev Zakov as Minister of Defence. The decision was adopted by the Forty-Seventh National Assembly of the National Assembly will be supplemented with the date.. 2022 and is stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Please vote on the draft decision. Vladimir Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u193	Honest Mitev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u195	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u197	They voted 214 MPs in the Chamber and 3 online " 217" total: 181 in the Chamber and 3 online " 184," no objection, abstentioned 33. The motion is accepted. I ask Mr. Zakov to order the parliamentary tribune to take an oath. Here you go, Mr. Zakov. I'll take the oath, you repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u198	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-01.u199	Dear Members of Parliament, with this the agenda for today's extraordinary meeting is exhausted. The next regular meeting will be held tomorrow at 9:00. Thank you! Have a good day. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
