ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1	Honourable colleagues, please register. Atanas Zafirov? Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u3	Thanks, guys. Joined 182 MPs in the hall and 1 online There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, we are continuing with the debates on Articles 2 and 3, on which we suspended work on the State Budget Act yesterday. For speech, associate professor Slavov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There is an ancient Roman maxim that during war the laws remain silent. Unfortunately, we are at war now, but Bulgaria is not yet at war, namely because we are not at war, we must strengthen our key institutions as the judiciary. The budget in the justice department meets certain needs and requirements. First of all, he notes that Bulgaria within the European Union is the country with the most judges and prosecutors per capita and I will give you figures. In Bulgaria the judges of 100 000 people are 31.7, on average for the European Union 17.6, however, note that the prosecutors in Bulgaria of 100 000 people are 21.8 at average for the European Union 11.25, that is, we have twice as many prosecutors as in the European Union and slightly less than twice as many judges, and the quality of justice we know what it is. We are in monitoring, and on several lines, the European Union, the Council of Europe and other institutions. These figures, which I quoted, are from the reports of the European Commission on the effectiveness of justice and they very clearly show what expectations the Bulgarian judiciary creates, unfortunately, fails to cover them and fulfil them. The budget in the section of the Law on Justice has nevertheless been increased this year, as the Law on the Judiciary itself provides. This increase is proportionate, and this increase also takes into account the fact, as the minister pointed out yesterday, that one of the authorities within the judiciary, whose place was not in the judiciary, the Bureau of Defense, was able to move it to the Forty-sixth National Assembly where it is its natural place, namely to the Ministry of Justice. "Democratic Bulgaria" will, of course, support the proposed budget with the edit that has been tabled by colleagues so that we can meet public expectations. This is only a first step towards the judicial reform that is about to take place this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u5	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Any lines to that statement? I won't. The next recorded yesterday are in this sequence: Peter Petrov, Hamid Hamid, Krum Zarkov. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! Under art. 2 There is a proposal submitted by a group of MPs, which, however, you see, puts the National Assembly back in the position which we discussed yesterday It is an interesting fact that the Minister of Justice has adopted the State Budget Bill on the Council of Ministers and yesterday came out of this tribune to convince us, colleagues, that he supports the decision of the MPs how the adopted and supported budget to be amended. Colleagues, a bad request is to make a judicial reform if there are requests for one, because so far we see only requests, we do not see real concrete actions, to be done through the budget. And this is the opinion of the Venice Commission. The moment came when we opposed the Bulgarian National Television of the Bulgarian National Radio with Budgets. The moment has come when we oppose the Supreme Judicial Council and the independence of the justice system with the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. If these are management decisions, if these are proposed reforms, colleagues, it is not a good sign. If anyone has a personal or other view of the management of an institution, my request is, and we as MPs must see it not happening through the budget of the state. Applications for judicial reform are made with concrete actions, not with penalties, because agree that in the justice system and in particular the prosecution works many people, many prosecutors work. If the Minister has views of one of the prosecutors, then through this proposal, which she supports to MPs between first and second reading with some penalty of 20 million against the independent prosecutor's office, I think it is not consistent. I personally will not support this decision at the very least because, again, I say, opposing units in the state that must function independently, objectively and we as MPs must take the decision here in this House, whether a judicial reform, thus represented, is being done through the budget, or will ensure the proper functioning of all institutions that will vote on their budgets for the year in question. The minister yesterday even took the liberty of doing some examination, let me not tell the press, but some review of the functionality of the prosecution's actions, and again, this is not the place. She is a justice minister, has all the powers to make her proposals for a change in the justice system, but not through the budget of the state, colleagues. That's why I'm not going to support him. Madam Minister, you've been a minister for several months now, you've been a politician for more time, offer something real, and don't hide behind Mr. Karimanski's proposals, because you previously supported this budget at the Council of Ministers. And now, you see, you don't go out to explain why you didn't make such changes before you submitted it, but you support a proposal from MPs between first and second readings. Here's the other interesting moment, colleagues. Do you remember that there were proposals again for judicial reform during the transitional and final provisions of the state budget? We have not reached them because they are still in the State Budget Act these 110 members and the judges of entries, and all the other things you had put, not to use another word in the state budget. Colleagues, if reforms are to be made, they must be discussed in this House. Let's not make them through the back door, through proposals at the second reading of a group of MPs, and it "Democratic Bulgaria." I don't know if there's even anyone who signed this proposal. You are using the Chair of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Please, here by making speeches and reviewing, especially the work of the Prosecutor's Office, because obviously you have a fixation on it, give specific solutions through other laws, not through the State Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Madam Minister, to take an attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me do a couple of details again. We are not talking about reducing the budget of the judiciary or the budget of the prosecution. We are talking about increasing the budget of the judiciary and the budget of the prosecution. And what you have taken the liberty of describing as newspaper clippings are official reports by bodies of the European Commission and the Council of Europe. I will be most pleased to provide you with the relevant links so that you can meet them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u9	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Replies to Mr. Ivanov's statement? Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova, and then Mr. Ganev and Associate Professor Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Ivanov, you are right that the feeling of different treatment and respect for the individual institutions in the country is being created and that Mr. Karimanski's kindness is being used to submit proposals, as this is the only legal method at the moment so that the Council of Ministers can correct its error in relation to the failure to provide sufficient funds for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, apropo and culture, because they used Mr. Karimanski to make this proposal yesterday so that he could increase the demand in the sector. Yesterday also zealously, rather concerned, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance explained how he was concerned about public finances, see, these 20 million were for prosecutors' salaries. But, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that you increase the staff costs of the Council of Ministers by 167%, that you increase the staff costs of the Ministry of Tourism by 34%, that the historical budget of the Ministry of Tourism is actually an increase of 1.5 million for the staff costs of yes, those people who work deserve it, but why should this hypocrisy, division and opposition of the institutions, even more when it is necessary to respect the principle of separation of authorities and the independent judiciary, and to provide conditions for the work of the judiciary bodies. And according to current legislation, the Supreme Judicial Council is the one that actually defines the remuneration policy of the judicial system bodies. So this is an absolutely hypocritical attitude and, in fact, a seeming concern for spending public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Mr. Ganev. He's giving up. Docent Slavov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u12	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Ivanov! It's a good thing you've finally started reading the reports of the Venice Commission. But do not read the goals, because if you read them, you would see what else the Venice Commission says about the judiciary in Bulgaria, about the structure of the Supreme Judicial Council, about the establishment of the Colleges of Majorities with which decisions are made, about the lack of any form of real responsibility and accountability of the Prosecutor General. So, colleagues, I encourage you to continue reading the reports of the Venice Commission, reading the annual Report on the Rule of Law of the European Commission, and I believe that we will meet on the road you are on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u13	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. A third line, though? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I didn't hear from this tribune you ask the Minister who submitted 89 paragraphs without agreeing on a corruption risk with KKCONPI, first? Secondly, no one in the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs answered who submitted them? Did the Ministry of Justice bring them in, did the Minister bring them in to her? Who brought them in? This is very important, colleagues. Not to tell me we don't follow the principles of the Venice Commission. Electively, dear Mr. Slavov, we interpret that. And the next thing I want you to point out in your duplicate, and I'm asking you, yesterday, the minister of this tribune said that the prosecution, yes, there have been indictments filed ninety percent and how many percent, but no investigative results have been achieved. But, Madam Minister, the prosecution does not perform such activities, I apologize very much. The D.A.'s pressing charges, she's not investigating. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. For the back, Mr. Ivanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u16	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! To the replicators. Mrs. Angelkova, I absolutely agree with you. Indeed, this opposition is seen in the proposals so made, and it should not be, and it does not belong here. To Mr. Slavov. Mr. Slavov, I know that your party's litmotive, and there's nothing wrong with that, is judicial reform. You also have a former Minister of Justice, a member of your parliamentary group, a minister in a GERB government. He's doing the last one, maybe now you'll continue to do the right thing. But, Mr. Slavov, you came out of the room and you couldn't hear my ass. When do you read the proposals of the Venice Convention? [[Heckling]] Commission, excuse me. Which says six months shouldn't be changed by the Election Code. You, the evening before your election, have changed the Election Code, as you are comfortable with it. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] You didn't have a problem with the Commission's advice then, did you? The other thing that is, Mr. Slavov, you may also take quite to heart the words of Prime Minister Petkov, and perhaps the Prime Minister to say to whom the attitude towards judicial reform is, do you see that I do not miss the exact quote: "Let's put our people in the judiciary." [[Heckling]] Here we are discussing the budget of the state and the example you are giving is not good. He's a bad guy. Initially agreed budget by you, thank you to Mrs. Alexandrova, which reminded me, where did 89 paragraphs in Transitional and Final Provisions come from? No one could explain to either the Budget or the Legal Commission. Did you write them, a colleague of mine? So now Mr. Karimanski has taken them out of the best man's shame again and you are changing a budget that is not in line with a legislative initiative for change in other units. Shame and shame! That's not how judicial reform is done. Justice reform is done with a broad debate, with the request of support from all parliamentary parties, and not their neglect, because you are not self-sufficient. Your corner over there in the hall isn't enough. This is perhaps a problem that you, when you see it, will mature to make some really adequate judicial reform. Mr. Hristo Ivanov does one, and now you will be doing repairs on Mr. Hristo Ivanov. And you keep saying that, and I keep saying that the place of this proposal and this opposition that you are doing is not in the State Budget Act. That's it. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Speech.. Petar Petrov. Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues from the opposition! You don't know what peace and security it is to be on the record from the day before. I'm just saying. Dear Minister, thank you for being here today. [[Reply from DB: It was yesterday.]] Yeah, I know. Resurrection is the only party in the new Bulgarian history in respect of which the Prosecutor's Office requested its deletion in court by bringing a case and losing it, so I am the last in this Chamber to defend the actions of the Prosecutor's Office, but I was provoked for my statement by your statement yesterday, which sounded like justification for the current budget of the Prosecutor's Office that, you see, there was a double reduction in the indictments filed............................................... I would like to say that the prosecution, as a law enforcement authority acting to protect the public interest, is not operating on a norm. The number of prosecutorial acts submitted, no matter what year, cannot be a criterion for what the budget of the Prosecutor's Office should be. Whether there are 20 thousand, or actually for 2020, there are 15 thousand, but I would also like to say that there are also agreements, there are proposals for an exemption from criminal liability with the replacement of administrative and so on and so forth. But this cannot be inserted as a justification for the specific budget, without going into debate whether it is 3.2 million more or less, the figures are in front of all colleagues. I was also provoked to make a statement by the statement of Minister Assen Vassilev, who unfortunately is not here today that we as citizens have received from the judiciary a product at a lower level than the average European level. I would like to say that the activities of the judiciary cannot be defined as a product. Whether it legalizes normally or not, legally or not, is not due to any product that it exports. The problems of justice, and in particular the prosecution, are hiding in another place and I will give you an example from your ruling coalition. Yesterday in a conversation I realized that when monitoring a large oil refinery was introduced in mid-December, it actually turned out that consumption increased by 46%. If we apply the same assin in the prosecution, Madam Minister, do you think that if we put in place a monitoring of the prosecution's activities in the form of creating a legislative opportunity to control all prosecutorial acts and a legislative mechanism for liability for unlawful acts issued by the prosecutor's office, that would therefore increase the legality? I guarantee you this will happen. Also, if you are the owner, say, of a big company and cut off the money, do you think it would matter on efficiency? Well, it'll matter to me about efficiency. The same archin we can apply to the activities of the investigating authorities in the face of the prosecution that if we reduce the money, but do not create legal mechanisms to prevent corruption and to take bribes, where do you really put them? Can you answer that question? The problems in the Bulgarian administration, in particular in the prosecution, are not hidden in their budget. We can talk about this a lot, but, as my colleague Kiril Ananiev told Asen Vassilev the other day about the budget, I can apply the same here in terms of the criminal process. It's a whole science, there's no way in a five-minute statement to reveal all the defects. But aside from that, we talked about it being not a product after all. You will now come out and oppose me that judicial reforms are pending, that such judicial reforms are to be tabled, but I heard a man on TV a few days ago who said that the time for analysis and strategies is over after certain people have been replaced with other people. And it is quite possible, while we are waiting for your ruling coalition to make the relevant reforms, that same person to bring out a newer product that counts to quote better on the market. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u19	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, Madame Minister! Mr. Petrov, I use the line to ask you to ask the Minister is this not a first step towards Mr. Kiril Petkov's views for a change in the judiciary? This is where I decided to use his chief of staff's methods and Google it. It turns out that in his interview in Panorama (December) Mr. Petkov stated that his views on judicial reforms, I quote: Our role is to put our people in the prosecution.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u21	Mrs. Angelkova, to the budget, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u22	...the reform of the justice system? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u23	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, here's a second line. Will there be a third one?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Petrov, I agree with you 100% that debriefing the prosecution's work is not the time to debate today. We look at the budget and the normal functioning of the institutions in Bulgaria with the funds set out in this budget. Yesterday made a bad impression that the Minister made some sort of debriefing attempt to analyze the prosecution's work. You can tell her, in my opinion, that she, as a minister, has a function to respect this part of how the law enforcement system works, but when reports and reports of the activities of the courts and the prosecution are made, then we can deepen in this analysis. This analysis is not resource-related to what the budget is, at least not at the moment. I agree that we cannot anticipate their reduction in costs on this line without any reform being proposed. If there is a reform, then, naturally, the costs must follow it, whether to increase or decrease. But perhaps the most important thing you can ask her in your duplicate is why the budget of the Council of Ministers for staff costs is obviously going to start working much more, much more maturely, there is some ratio that is determined, a colleague, from 66 million for last year's staff costs of the Council of Ministers, this year, which we will be looking at in a moment, the expenditure of the Council of Ministers is 166 million. That's 100 million more. Maybe she'll answer you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u25	Mr. Ivanov, let us, however, when we look at the sums for the administration, comment on them then. We are now commenting on art. Art. 2 and Art. 2 3. Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, let's speak the truth. With this proposal for the budget of the judiciary, the prosecution specifically, you want to punish Ivan Geshev. That's the truth. [[Heckling]] But you're actually punishing all these prosecutors who are doing their job conscientiously, and you're obstructing the prosecution's work because there's really a lot of work there. The prosecution is not a trading company to go to profit and to expect any amount of indictments and convictions. The D.A.'s office has been called upon to observe the law and watch over it. And what will we do with this budget when, I hope, you succeed in releasing Geshev? We found out from the words of Kiril Petkov that we might even bring in the Attorney General, for example, from Rwanda. Then what are we going to do with this budget? This budget should be for the institution, not to punish a particular person with it, because the prosecution has a lot of work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Mr. Petrov, then Mr. Hamid for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u28	Dear colleagues, thank you for your lines. I hope that we can solidarity around the opinion that there should be no qualitative and quantitative analysis of the prosecution as a basis for the current budget, because, no matter how we think the numbers, from 355 at first reading reduce to 352 million. These are the figures and this cannot be a basis for work because the right is colleague Guncheva that he cannot because of the work of several people to generalize the activity of this whole system. Next, I believe that in order to make really serious progress in the activities of the Prosecutor's Office, it is necessary to establish control over its activities and not to reduce money. This does not work in any way with regard to the prosecution, nor with regard to the money for the Supreme Judicial Council, which, as far as I have seen, are down 5 million. Control and legal mechanisms to prevent corruption. These are the two methods that would guarantee legality in the activities of the judicial authorities, in particular the prosecution, as investigating according to the PPC crime in Bulgaria. Finally, colleague Ivanov, I am afraid to ask why the expenditure for the Council of Ministers has been increased by 100 million. lv.? Because seeing as how they're down for the D.A.'s office, it's $20 million. BGN, in me arises the heretic thought that they may have appointed prosecutors to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u29	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Hamid Hamid, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! This debate started last night. We couldn't finish it for understandable reasons. Today, however, we continue it under new circumstances. And most likely what happened this morning at 6:00 will also affect our state budget. I hope I'm not a bad prophet, but very soon we can get back together for an update, so I'm radically changing the whole statement from last night, which I said. What really happened last night? One of the first speeches of a line, I think my young friend Kulenski from "We are continuing the Change" came out with an aplomb, with a glitter in his eyes said: last year GERB 29 million cut the budget, so we will do it too. Shortly before that, although we all agreed that there would be no more jeeps, you rejected our proposal. Because you said, uh, there's gonna be an SUV, we filled it with 2 1/2 billion because you said the driver is already ours, it's okay. That is, we talked about a change that we will not do as GERB and do as GERB. You're just a poor beta version of GERB. It's a worse version. This fixation on the D.A., this fixation on the D.A.'s office, it's not gonna lead to anything. As Mrs. Guncheva said, you want to punish the Attorney General, but you're not punishing him. You don't punish those prosecutors she's talking about. You don't even punish those lawyers who work in the system. You punish all Bulgarian citizens who expect justice and justice. You punish all Bulgarian citizens because by reducing the budget of the judiciary and the prosecution, you create conditions for it not to function normally. That was said not only by Mr. Kulenski. Mrs. Minister also made a statement in this direction, the driver of the SUV, the Deputy Prime Minister, also made a statement in this direction. Where is he today? So be careful of the budget of the judiciary. It is no coincidence that the constitutional text has been introduced in this way to ensure independence of the budget of this power. And since Mrs. Minister strongly recommended that we read all six constitutional decisions on the subject carefully, I'm sure she knows them very well, I reread them again, Mrs. Minister, they are identical. Any action which leads to a violation of the effective work and effective work of the judicial system shall give rise to unconstitutionality. With this action, especially with Mr. Karimansky's proposal, you have created all the necessary conditions to have a seventh constitutional solution. You'll probably get there soon enough. It depends on the work of the Constitutional Court. In fact, I recommend that Mrs. Miteva not vote now, because there may be a conflict of interest in a few months. So, honourable Members, let us not think emotionally, think about the whole system, think about a justice system. Mr. Slavov with all due respect to Associate Professor Slavov, we have very well read all the reports of the Venice Commission. And unlike everyone else who talks about them here, we've written them in a draft amending the Constitution with judicial reform. We've written them. Sign them. As I hear, you're all talking in that direction. Sign the Project to bring it in and accept it! Let's face it! All recommendations one to one are laid there. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u31	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Any lines, any coworkers? Mr. Bojankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Hamid, you have come out of the budget because colleagues have explained in detail why structural changes are being made, the Bureau of Defense, what motivates this budget adjustment. Everything else you said, and many others who spoke before you, has nothing to do with the budget. It has to do with your general perception that it is about Prosecutor General Geshev, and when it comes to Prosecutor General Geshev, in the same order GERB, DPS and reenactment in a trust go out to the stand to protect the Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor General. For GERB and DPS, this is the norm we are accustomed to being sensitive to this topic, however, we were surprised once again that they joined this choir. My request to you is that we stick to the budgetary procedure, and now all the fears surrounding the figure, the personality, the D.A.'s institute for another debate let them go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u33	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Is there a second line to Mr. Hamid's statement? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Hamid! I am taking this line in view of the fact that I have been trying for 40 minutes to hear a motive why this 20 million should not be reduced. There is talk of Geshev to take Geshev's money, etc., but nowhere in the project is there a reduction in Geshev's wages, or anything else related to the Attorney General. An extremely motivated decision is actually why money should be reduced. These are structural changes that make savings in terms of expenditure in the prosecution, which savings do not need to be taken into account as savings, simply do not bet them in the budget. I'm gonna have to ask you not to say that this is interfering with the investigation and so on. by reducing the budget. I don't know if my colleagues have any idea what the powers of the prosecution are. The D.A.'s office doesn't follow. The D.A.'s office doesn't pay for forensics. Don't manipulate me! The prosecution gives instructions to the relevant investigative bodies, which, in fact, experts are subsequently paid by the budgets of the Ministry of Interior, etc., but not by the budget of the Prosecutor's Office. So all you're saying is that we're just going to waste one time and say how ajiba you're against a budget that's extremely balanced, extremely motivated, and I'm going to ask if someone here comes and tells me that this budget reduces prosecutors' salaries or somehow restricts the opportunity for prosecutors' work, for example they won't have paper or they won't have ink, or they won't have anything else, then let's go out and say it, if we have to adjust it. Everything else is just a bunch of talk we've been talking about for two months now. And I swear, I'm starting to ask myself a number of questions, what are we all 240 doing here? The reform, yes, the reform was initiated by Mr. Hristo Ivanov and because it was sabotaged by GERB, then we came out of the government. Yes, we will continue this reform and make it even better. If you don't mind! If you want to help us, please help us reform the system. That's what it takes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u35	The weather, Mr. Dimitrov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u36	But don't disturb us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u37	Thank you. Third line, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mrs. Minister! I took a brief attitude yesterday in relation to a line, but now I will replicate again and remind all of us a saying that what a man did to himself and his greatest enemy could not do to him. In order for our judicial system to have bad breath and the Venice Commission and various other institutions in the European Union to speak ill of us, the reason is within us. We, through various NGOs, different representatives of the legal community in Bulgaria, are constantly expressing our dissatisfaction with the work of the judiciary, which I immediately say is not ideal, we need a very serious quality reform in terms of both the prosecution and...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u39	Mr. Balachev, on the budget, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u40	...relationship of the court... I'll tell you about the budget, it's connected, Mr. Chairman. And that's why it's actually said that our system is bad. Yes, it will have to be reformed, but this does not stand up and does not work through the budget. Why did I say we were doing ourselves a bad favor? Because with these motives in this budget, with which we are reducing the amount of 2 million, whether someone has already reduced by 10, it does not matter, but there is already an opinion of the prosecution, which goes back to Europe. There will also be an opinion of the Supreme Judicial Council. Here is the conflict, which will give us bad breath and again and again regarding the judiciary in Bulgaria, will be spoken negatively. And as far as the Attorney General's office is concerned, should he be? Dear colleagues, the Prosecutor General of Bulgaria has since 1947 and his powers have hardly changed. I have to tell you that if we are talking about these chief prosecutors who are in the latest history of Bulgaria, starting from Tatarchev, whose expression is: "Over me only God, none of them are Kolio Filchev, Boris Velchev, neither Sotir Tsatsarov nor Ivan Geshev have been loved prosecutors because that is just their position at the top of the pyramid of the prosecution. And whether the prosecutor will be named Ivan Geshev or Ivan Dermenjiev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u41	The weather, Mr. Balachev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u42	It doesn't matter. It matters what we do to be able to reform. But this is not done through the budget, dear Minister. That's not how this works. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u43	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Mr. Hamid, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bojankov, I came out so slowly and calmly, I said it last night at ten or something, so I don't know what trot you're talking about. If you hear horses in your head, or if you miss the other Hamid, if you want to challenge him today is not the day just, you missed the moment. So listen to the voices in the head. Mr. Dimitrov, there is no balance. There is balance for everyone else, but for the judiciary there is no balance. For all ministries there is inflation, there is an increase in remuneration, there is an increase in costs, but for the prosecution there is deflation. Only for the prosecutor's office the costs must be reduced. Only for the prosecution the electricity is free, the gasoline for their cars is free for the other ministries. Here's the imbalance. I say to you again: do not punish Bulgarian citizens for this, because you have a number of coalition partners who know from experience by punishing Bulgarian citizens, how they retaliate. Ask them! They used the empirical approach. The DS colleagues will tell you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u45	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. You might have missed the introduction to your speech. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u46	What?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u47	Which was aimed at Mr. Dimitrov and the voices. It was a little out of line. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] To Bojankov. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened to the debate on the judiciary budget yesterday from a distance and today how it went. There are several things that I think need to be said in order not to mislead the Bulgarian citizens and in order to be able to support the proposed text in a calm way. Yesterday it was heard by several colleagues, mainly from GERB, that it has never been done so that the budget of the judiciary is made by the judiciary and that this is a constitutional situation. In fact, the budget of the judiciary is indeed drawn up as an opinion by the Supreme Judicial Council and approved by the Ministry of Finance. And never until now, at least I don't have that memory, and yesterday I had enough time to check, the budget of the judiciary has not been accepted as it has stated. In fact, the precedent was at first reading this year when the differences were minimal. Now I'm going to remind you of something that may have been forgotten. Since I and in my former domesticity as an opposition MP have asked several times the question, I will put it now. This way of drawing up a budget of the judiciary is not right, because this gap means either that the court chamber, if that's what I can call them, wants more than they need, or that the Ministry of Finance doesn't give enough to function. Practice shows that every time they were cut, they functioned. It is no coincidence that, when we elected the Supreme Judicial Council five years ago and now, I hope, we will soon open this procedure again, in the concepts of each of the candidates for a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, it was written that it will work to change the way of budgeting, that it will move from the so-called historical principle that is still being proposed today, namely on the basis of the expenditure of the previous year, increased by something on the so-called project principle, project budgeting. Something that's at stake as a philosophy for the entire budget. In any case, this did not happen and five years later the same debate continued. Questions were also raised about the constitutionality of the proposal made to reduce the budget between first and second readings. There was inflation on the cited solutions. Yesterday someone mentioned one decision, then two, just a colleague from the DPS six. I have seen three relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court: 16 "2001," 4 "2003," 4 "2010," but none of them concerns the case that we are looking at now. And it is as follows: the bill adopted at first reading will be amended between first and second readings with an amount that cannot objectively be said to endanger the functioning of the judiciary or, in particular, the prosecution. We're talking about a reduction of 352 million to 332 million. This is a very serious budget. [[Replication by National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]] Twenty million, yes. I'll come there, Mrs. Alexandrova. We are talking here about punishment, but believe me, many institutions in Bulgaria would like to be punished in this way, all the more so that even after this reduction the budget of the prosecution will grow compared to the previous year. I do not believe that this can be changed if you collect the relevant signatures for a constitutional complaint, but I am absolutely convinced that there is no grounds for unconstitutionality here. Thus, by the way, as I was convinced and stated from this tribune that there is no grounds for unconstitutional transfer of the Bureau of Protection and its material assets to the Ministry of Justice. But, well, for the 20 million, there are two that I hear. One is that this reduction will jeopardize the independence of the prosecutor's office, which finds no basis. And the other thing I've heard from the Attorney General himself is that this will lead to a celebration of oligarchy and organised crime. Eh, if only 20 million could stop the celebration of oligarchy and organised crime, which has been growing all these years, by the way, the budget and the prosecutor's office! Because to those who say that this is a punishment, I can remind you that so far, for years, there has been an absolute favourism by the Parliament of the Prosecutor's Office. I mentioned that the budget as requested by the SJC has never been accepted by the Ministry of Finance, but I never recall the prosecution asking for anything that wasn't given. Keep that in mind. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I am graduating, Mr. Chairman, with the following: one thing is right by the opposition - judicial reform is not done to the budget, only no one has said or done it from there. I will use this case to remind you that this 20 million in itself will not prevent the prosecution from working, they will not contribute to doing better. Here in front of our Chamber and Parliament are important laws and the election of important bodies.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u49	Time, Mr. Zarkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u50	I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. I will support this proposal, as is done on the Commission, with the proposal for a reduction of 20 million. This is not a judicial reform, however, it is coming and I am glad that yesterday the Council of Ministers has adopted an important bill, which I hope we will soon be able to deal with. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u51	Almost a minute more, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u52	Sorry, I'll make up for it in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u53	For replicas.. Petar Petrov, Alexander Nenkov and Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you are, Mr. Petrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u54	Thank you. Dear colleague Zarkov, I've gone into a bit of ignorance and confusion. Yesterday, colleague Kulenski mentioned that the money for the prosecution was actually increased by 2.5 million and, as far as I read the budget for 2022 and 2021, he was right from 329 to 332. Today, however, on the one hand, colleague Dimitrov says that there was a reduction of 20 million, but this did not interfere with the work of the prosecution, because it did not make the expenses that were spoken of in the Chamber. Now you're going out and you're saying it's even a useful discount. So please, colleagues in the ruling coalition, choose whether there's a reduction in the prosecution's money or not, because you're confusing me personally. I tried to escape this morning from this debate, saying the following: the problem is that at first reading there was a bet and then a few days in the media there was talk that there would be a reduction in the money of the prosecution, a kind of edifying to this prosecution, with a reproach: "You prosecutors are not working well, so we will reduce your money! This is precisely the problem of the so-called reform that you are doing with the budget and the proposals between first and second reading, and not whether the money as a sum is more or less. Again: at least of the numbers I see are 2.5 million more than last year, but the way this thing was done, I think it's wrong. You provoke some very dangerous public doubts as to whether the Bulgarian state and Bulgarian law enforcement bodies work in their interest. This is a major problem for me, not the numbers themselves as a whole. Finally, again, I will repeat earlier from my speech about a colleague who was surprised by our situation: do not generalise the prosecution. Breeding was the only party in respect of which the prosecution requested deletion. I repeat, I am the last person in this room to defend the prosecution's actions in this form. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u55	For a second line? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Zarkov, I always enjoy arguing with you on such an important subject. I am not a lawyer, but I have enough observations as a man who has been in this room for many years and I have witnessed many different debates on this subject. Far be it from me that the 20 million that will be less for the prosecution will somehow hinder the entire justice system. The other question I have for you is this: why the prosecution? Why not in full, why not on the entire budget of the entire judicial system, but why just on the prosecution, in order to dispel the doubts that there is some penalty for not liking or liking its supervisor? The other thing I would like to remind you of, as you said, yes, I agree with you that, normally in this Chamber, the draft budget provided by the Supreme Judicial Council was not accepted by the Chamber, but it was accepted by the Council of Ministers. Can you explain to me what happened between the first and second votes? Since what was put to the first vote and adopted by the ruling majority is the proposal of the Council of Ministers, then comes the proposal of Mr Kariminski, who is obviously very familiar with how and how the judiciary operates, has decided to submit a proposal to reduce the budget, again I say, not the entire judiciary, but only the prosecution?! Would you please step out into your backyard and explain to me what this fact is due to? Because, yes, they have not been accepted, I repeat, the budgets of the Supreme Judicial Council, but we have always supported, as the ruling majority, what the Council of Ministers adopted and passed the entire conciliation procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u57	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Third line, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Zarkov, first of all, my line to you and my disagreement with the partials of your speech. First of all, why this opposition between the institutions. This is extremely important, dear Mr. Zarkov. This opposition between the Ministry of Justice and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is unacceptable in my opinion. Again, do the Supreme Administrative Court and the Supreme Court of Cassation not need additional funding after you have fixed yourself specifically in the prosecution? Next, you used the expression "punishment" for the prosecution. A similar expression used the prime minister of the ruling majority, saying they would put the right people in the appropriate places. It really worries me, and I think it's disturbing your fixation around the Attorney General and the D.A.'s office. Finally, the budget between the first and second readings of the judiciary is known by you and in your role as opposition at the Forty-fourth National Assembly, you yourself have submitted such proposals, has never been reduced, and has always been increased. It may be small, it may not be with all your offer of twenty million or ten you wanted, but there has always been growth up, not a reduction of 20 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Zarkov, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Dear gentlemen replicating, thank you for your lines on the ground and I will try to answer essentially. Mr. Petrov, we have agreed very well, and even from the debate it becomes clear. That you don't understand us is a problem that I can't help but try to explain it again. It was proposed at first reading 352 million, it was proposed that they be reduced by 20 to 332 million, and last year it was 329 million. Therefore, we are reducing against the first proposal, but we are increasing compared to last year. I can't be more clear than that. How it has been presented and whether it has been well represented or poorly done, I am not a PR person is not my question. My question is: will this money be enough for the prosecution? I believe that to be why I will support it. If you believe that you do not support. That's the question. That's for punishment, Mrs. Alexandrova, I didn't say that. I respond to the criticism that was said to be punishment. But here I am going to what Mr. Nenkov said. Take a look at the budgets: 47 million for the Supreme Judicial Council, 24 for the VCC, 29 for SAC, 332 for the Prosecution after it is decided to be reduced from where there is the most. The only important question is: will this 20 million of prosecutors be prevented from working or not? No! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] The gentleman calling from the hall: How do you know? He certainly doesn't know, Madam Minister, so don't worry. Finally, the opposition. The opposition is not between the Justice Department and anyone else. You're trying to make it look like there's opposition between the DA and the BAS. This, by the way, is a thesis the prosecution is launching. The truth is that in a budget when it is decided to give more money to an institution, in the case of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which undoubtedly needs them, they must be taken from somewhere or taken from an additional deficit, or taken from somewhere where they are given more in advance. [[Replication by National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]] I finish with the following sentence, Mrs. Alexandrova. I have offered many things in one direction and another. They have rarely been accepted by your majority. The truth is: the prosecution in recent years needs reform. Is this the way to reform? No, that's not the way to reform. This is a budgetary issue, and the reformist issue, I hope, with the same passion to discuss it very soon. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u61	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. For procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, we at the age of old think that the debate on the adoption of the judiciary budget is extremely important for society. We therefore propose that the debate be broadcast directly on BNT 1 and BNR.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u63	Is there a reverse offer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u64	Madam President, honourable Members, I propose to broadcast on BNT 2 instead of on BNT 1, so that we do not spoil their entire programming scheme, they have set up some things and people are already used to watching BNT 2 when they want to see parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u65	Okay. It's a separate proposal. There are two suggestions. The first proposal is for broadcast on BNT 1 and BNR. Mr. Bikov's second proposal is to broadcast on BNT 2 and BNR. We begin with the first proposal of our fellow Member from the ARRANGEMENT. Voting mode. Colleagues who are online. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u67	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u68	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u69	They voted 140 MPs in the House plus 2 online.. 142 total: 25 and 1 online... 26 total, against 80, abstentions 35. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the second proposal, which is Toma Bikov, the broadcast to take place on BNT 2 and BNR. Voting mode. Colleagues who are online. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u70	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u71	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u72	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u73	They voted 181 MPs in the House plus 2 online.. total 183: for 68, against 70 and one online.. total 71, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. We're moving on to the next speech. Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u74	Madam President, honourable Members! Our offer is under art. 3. The proposal is signed by the four parties in the ruling coalition and concerns the help that parliament can give to the most vulnerable part of the Bulgarian society. The proposal is as follows: art. 3, para. 6 is amended as follows: the monthly savings of the funds under para. 1, II t. 1 in the section on the remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly and the related regulated additional costs formed under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be used to finance policies and measures for support of people with disabilities under art. 109, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act at the expense of the budget relationship of the National Assembly with the central budget. Al. 7 to drop out, para. 8 to be renumbered, becomes al. 7, para. 9 to be renumbered, becomes al. 8. Second, in art. 77, para. 4 after the words Staff costs to be added: + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + - 110. - 110. Third, a new article is being created. 110: The quarterly savings of funds in the part of the remuneration of persons resulting from the determination of their monthly remuneration, depending on the basic monthly remuneration of the representative of the National Assembly, shall be used to finance policies and measures in the social sphere according to art. 109, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act at the expense of the budget of the corresponding budget under the state budget with the central budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u75	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. You've prepared them in writing. In fact, this was not a statement on the substance, rather a procedural proposal for a request for an editorial amendment. To make a statement.. Krasimir Valchev. Here you go, Mr. Valchev. Then Mr. Hristo Ivanov, Alexander Nenkov and Nikolay Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My speech is rather in the form of questions, but unfortunately, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance are absent. I hope that Mrs. Yordanova, the Minister of Justice, will be able to give me some answers. I listen fully to Mr. Bojankov's call to speak fully on the budgetary procedure and principles of the formation of the judiciary budget. My specific question is this: why are you offering it now and not being offered by the Council of Ministers this reduction? It was misjudged, now you've come to your senses, you're looking for intentional opposition to BAS right now, or do you want us to have another conversation about the effectiveness of the judiciary, in particular the prosecution? Why are you offering this discount now? By the way, there is another possible answer that does not exclude the others, it was said by the Minister of Finance yesterday, because if we had done it, we would have broken the law. I don't know if you've heard these words, but this is what the Minister of Finance said: "You, the National Assembly, can break the law, but we, the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Ministers, cannot break the law. " That is what the Minister of Finance said, and I hope you, Madam Minister, will deny it or confirm it. Why is this automatic mechanism needed in the Judicial Law? Here the Minister of Finance is right about one thing.. they cannot set a budget of 5 billion or 10. That is to say, they still have a limit on the framework, the National Assembly must put a limit on their general budget, but on the other hand, we have a constitutional set-up for separation of powers and autonomy of the judiciary budget, which also implies such an automatic mechanism. It actually protects the judiciary from the executive power and the National Assembly defining income policy. And this is part of the budgetary autonomy of the judiciary. You are now practically not giving them the opportunity to implement this automatic mechanism and derogate it, but only budgetaryly. Will you derogate this automatic mechanism and legally, that is, will you propose a change in the Law on the Judicial Authority to remove this automatic mechanism, provided that you leave one part of the system unable to implement it with the reduction of the budget? Because I step on the following set-up that colleagues at the Ministry of Finance, when they were making the budget at the end of last year, have correctly calculated how much money the judicial system needs. Now reducing, in fact, the Minister of Finance says: yes, we have calculated correctly how much money is needed, but because they have very high wages, they will not apply this year this automatic mechanism, so we reduce the budget and oppose them to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Yeah, but it's not fair. If you're honest, say so, we'll also change the Law on the Judiciary and cancel this automatic mechanism because they don't deserve it. We found out here yesterday from the Deputy Prime Minister that if we don't show results, that is, if in a garden all the trees are not perfect, all the apples are not perfect, we won't water this garden, that is, we won't take care of the garden until all the flowers bloom and all the trees tie up perfect fruit. Even though 90% of people in a system can work beautifully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u77	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Are there any lines? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Valchev! To the question why now I think the answer is in a word that has already been mentioned several times today. The word is war. This is a war of the new executive with the judiciary. A few evidence in that direction. Despite the removal of the Bureau for the Protection of the Chief Prosecutor from the judiciary budget, the real net increase in the budget does not cover even inflation risk, and the judiciary will effectively have even less money for its maintenance. Perhaps this is also dictated by the lack of real reforms, of ideas for reforms that bring Mrs. Minister into a war regime. Madam Minister, the hands of the judiciary are down!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u79	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. I do not think it was appropriate for you to use exactly this word today, in view of the events that have taken place since this morning, and therefore I call on my fellow Members not to do so in their speeches. Here you are, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u80	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm going to answer the question in a nutshell. A bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, which I hope will very soon be discussed in this Chamber, does not provide for and there are no provisions that will change the way the magistrates' remuneration is formed. [[Replyings between MPs from DPS and "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u81	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. Excuse me, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u82	Thank you. What we will offer to your attention is dropping career bonuses for members of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. As for the question of why this proposal is being made now, there is a resonant here, probably should have been done earlier, the whole debate, I thought to speak a little pó at the end of the debate, points out what the central problem is. And it is not any opposition between institutions or any other form of antagonism, as you are trying to imagine it. In fact, the big problem that we need to solve together is that Bulgaria should finally have a real programme budgeting, including in the judiciary. Because here we need to talk about the effective spending of budget funds and there will be no link between expenditures and public expenditures and results achieved. And this debate must be conducted and I hope that, in the next review of the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, we will make progress and we will know exactly how much we need for the judiciary to effectively exercise its powers and actually be well secured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u83	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u84	Thank you. You actually said which one of my guesses is true that you've come to your senses now. But in my opinion, there is another truth that does not exclude what you said that colleagues at the Ministry of Finance have correctly considered how much money for remuneration is needed and put it in the draft budget so as to guarantee this automatic mechanism. That is, in other words, you leave one part of the judicial system before being unable to comply with the legal provision in the Law on the Judicial Authority. You said you'd change it. I can't tell how much savings that will be. As far as programme budgeting is concerned, I dare say that I have read and worked on this topic. Believe me, it will be very difficult for all public programs to make reliable, measurable good results. Some of the results of the public programs are inconclusive, difficult to appreciate in the future. I don't know how you're gonna put it, and I don't know what the best indicators of justice you're gonna find, how you're gonna evaluate when judges work on conscience and when judges work on conscience and when they don't, it's very hard to get this thing into the framework of programming budgeting. Programme budgeting does not exclude one other principle: the principle that budgetary systems must have normal basic funding. Normal basic funding is one of the reasons why many systems are in poor condition - something the Deputy Prime Minister does not understand. We can't have good science, we can't have good culture if we can't replicate the research institutes, the scientific organizations, the cultural institutes. This is one of the reasons why we have poor results in education, because we have spent many years saving from teachers, not because our system and teachers have not done their job in recent years, as the Deputy Prime Minister said. So remember that before you talk about results, basic funding should also be provided and those working in the relevant institutions should have normal conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u85	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u86	Dear Minister, dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm going to make a statement that may be a little different from what Mr. Zarkov said, saying that this is not part of the judicial reform. It is part of the judicial reform because the issue of the effectiveness of spending public funds and accountability for the results achieved is a central part of the issue of the need to reform one or another public institution, including the judiciary and the prosecution. No, this isn't about war, Mr. Nestorov. I understand why any attempt to hold accountability, some form of accountability, in relation to the prosecution may seem a war to some people, but it is about responding to long-standing expectations in Bulgarian society and, by the way, to our key partners. It's important to clarify a few things. There is clarity that the standards.. by the way, yesterday Mrs. Alexandrova quoted international standards...................................................................................... Isn't that right, Mrs. Alexandrova, you quoted yesterday if memory serves? But not the prosecutors! Because these are standards that are applicable to the court. And there is a difference, including the Bulgarian Constitutional Court makes that difference. With regard to the prosecution, the Bulgarian Constitutional Court clearly states that it is responsible for the implementation of the state penal policy. How this state penal policy is applied is a matter which has its dimensions related to efficiency and its dimensions related to certain indicators. Here I will not agree with the honourable spokesperson before me Mr. Valchev there are ways for state criminal policy and its effectiveness to be brought into the mermaid of the relevant measurable criteria and indicators. I will refer you, for example, to the Crown Prosecution Service of England and Wales website of the Royal Prosecutor's Office of England and Wales. There is an extremely interesting place for you to be, I believe, interesting to look at it, a cycle of planning and accounting for the activities of the Prosecutor's Office in England and Wales, after public discussions setting specific indicators and objectives precisely through budgetary efficiency at a clear level how much the prosecutor's work of the taxpayer's budget is costing an hour and this is taken into account in Parliament. You'll be very interested as a financier, I believe, to look at this thing. There are such systems in the Netherlands, there are such systems in many other places, and we and this instrument of public accountability and efficiency of the prosecution, because we are talking about this, but we also have to apply to every other institution as a development of the role of Parliament. Because one of the fundamental roles of parliament, I believe that you will agree, historically it was to approve the budgets precisely in order to justify their spending and efficiency. That's why historical parliaments are emerging, and that's why we're trying here to develop this thing. There's nothing heretic and nothing scary about it. Yes, it should be carefully discussed and where, in what limits, it should happen. However, the debate we are having today is an important part of it, and the budgetary procedure in its really conceptual grounds, and judicial reform, because it is part of the effort to introduce greater accountability to the prosecution. We must clearly say: this is part of the problem of the results in the implementation of the state penal policy by the prosecution. These results are inconclusive. The Bulgarian society pays a huge price for the fact that the prosecution, especially with regard to certain types of crimes, is not doing its job. If we look at their accounts, you will see that there are no results with regard to corruption on the high levels of power, and we know it, and we know it in all possible directions and the price for this lack is huge, which pays the Bulgarian society. Mr. Hamid, who is not here, said something very important and I will end with him that we are in a changed situation today. The very truth is, and indeed we must, against the backdrop of the fact that it is really about war and it is not between the two countries of Russia and Ukraine, this is a war where a dictator tries with all means, including bombing cities where there is a civilian population, to revise the post-war order. In the face of this threat, we need to consolidate the Bulgarian statehood at a new level, of national responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u87	The weather, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u88	Just two sentences, if I may. Corruption and lack of protection, lack of response to corruption crimes are one of the portals through which the hostile influence of the Kremlin regime, which is trying to revise the international order, will enter Bulgaria as it has previously done. If we do not close this portal, including through decisive judicial reform, it will be another form of very strong vulnerability of Bulgaria in this new risk situation. So my call is to really abandon the so far divisions and try to find consensus on the necessary reform, because it is not only the defence, it is not just the services, it is not just the energy and the ability of the Bulgarian institutions to resist corruption and penetration will be key in order to cope with this...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u89	Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u90	...a dark period we're entering. Thank you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u91	Thank you a minute and a half out of the time that is acceptable, and to you again the same remark. Colleagues, let us really not make such analogies with what is happening in Ukraine. Personally, I don't think it's appropriate. I am expressing my opinion as presiding at the moment. For a line, Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I would rather replicate you for your approach. The debate on judicial reform is now under way and is likely to take place for a long time. Here I am impressed that this budget imposes sanctions on certain institutions, they are sanctioned. Because it's not about any overall optimization. For example, the Ministry of Interior will excuse my colleagues who are involved with the Ministry of Interior, but I believe that the Ministry of Interior has problems as well. And in the Ministry of Interior, we all know that there are also cataclysers who are corrupt, for example! But the Ministry of Interior's budget is increasing. Does this mean that you believe that everywhere things are relatively optimized and are going well, but they are not going well in the prosecution and in the Bulgarian National Television? Because these are the sanctioned institutions in this budget. This money, which is saved by BNT and the prosecution, is, I think, 22 million, they have no impact on the overall budget, nor any money has been saved. Secondly, since these sanctions are imposed on these two institutions, are they expected to start working better? Will this lead to a better job? I don't think so. I think there are problems there, perhaps in both institutions, but perhaps they will solve with another type of political action, other laws. But in the case of the prosecution in the Law on the Judiciary, you are talking about amendments to the Constitution and so on, but that you will reduce their 20 million, I am convinced that people who do their job well will be victims of these sanctions, which will by no means help even the judicial reform that you are talking about and which you promise to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u93	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. [[Heckling]] Mr. Mihailov, the procedure after the lines and the backs are exhausted. Docent Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I have two specific questions for you. My first specific question is: when in our government you were a minister together with the chief cabinet, and now essentially a minister, how many proposals have you made for legislative changes in the judiciary? When was this activity born in you to change the judiciary? When were these ideas of yours born? Since you're a team then your chief cabinet, now minister, exchange seats. This is my first question: how many bills have you submitted here to the National Assembly, and how did you bring the amendments to the Constitution, with whose activity and how did they happen? Who caused the change to the Supreme Judicial Council and how did it happen, thanks to whom? My second question is: who tabled 89 changes to the paragraph in the Bill and whose activity was it? Here, from this tribune to say, however, that citizens know whose activity it is, who imported them, how they imported them and what objectives are actually being pursued. Thank you. Two specific questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Although both issues are neither under art. Art. 2, or under art. 3...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u96	As chairman, you have no right, and if you wish, take my word for it. You have no right to make a line of my speech. If you want to speak, get down to the stand and you'll be replaced. Please follow the rules! Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u97	Thank you for your attitude, Mr. Ivanov, that's exactly what I'm doing. It is the duty of the President of the National Assembly or of the President to direct the debate in the direction in which it is to be conducted. The subject of the debate is art. Art. 2 and Art. 2 3, and not paragraphs 1 to 89, nor what Mr. Ivanov did a certain number of years ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u98	I want procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u99	Mr. Ivanov, the procedure is after we run out of lines and coats. Is there a second line to Mr. Ivanov's statement? I can't see. The procedures will be, first, Professor Mihailov, then Associate Professor Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u100	Dear Mr. President, since you made the remark after my speech, I am not comparing what is happening in Ukraine and what is happening in Bulgaria, but I am saying that we are living in a radically changed security environment where we will need the corruption risk that exists in Bulgaria to evaluate it in a radically different way and this is an essential element of the entire conversation that we are having. Mr. Bikov, this is not about punishing institutions, but about the first one, I remember that we had such a textbook on macroeconomics, which said that there were laws on economic thinking, and the first law was that we live in a resource-limited world. It is necessary to choose where funds are directed from the point of view of some priorities, from the point of view of some assessment of the effectiveness of these funds. As a matter of fact, the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Interior is not what was expected, including as an instrument there to proceed to some internal restructuring. I remember that when the government of Borisov 2 started, all the budgets of the ministries were reduced by 10% to be Mr. Ananiev might remember this brilliant move by Vladi Goranov to stimulate the internal cuts and optimization of the work of these institutions. It's a legitimate tool, and that's how they're chosen. Then, by the way, because it was for everyone, it turns out that for some it has an extremely destructive influence, and for others it is really necessary. In this sense, I would argue with that approach. For everyone it would be better to be targeted and let's not go back to then. I just want to say that we do not see the limitation of a certain budget resource as a sanction. It is a tool to provoke optimization in the work of the relevant institutions, absolutely legitimate and absolutely as a rule permissible. This is happening with regard to the prosecution. I suspect, but I don't know how much eventually, and I don't know if anyone knows how much money goes for, for example, to their little empire of holiday stations that they've been acquiring in recent years, but I have strong suspicions that if they optimize this empire, a lot of resources will be saved. You're talking about people doing their jobs. The prosecution has never introduced adequate tools to assess the individual work of prosecutors and their effectiveness. Now is the time to be able to distinguish between those who really do their job or not, to introduce this, by the way, and this must happen to the full and adequate extent in the Ministry of Interior, and in this respect you are absolutely right. To Mr. Ivanov's questions. Mr. Ivanov, you're asking me questions that give me a lack of knowledge of matter. The constitutional amendments cannot be tabled by the Minister of Justice of the Constitution and by the Council of Ministers, and they are tabled by the parliamentary factions. I do not want to pick a fight and it is important not to pick a fight, and what happened is that the faction of GERB was part of the importers and then did not vote its own bill for the Constitution. That was the problem. How many bills I've put in, you can check, there's no point in dealing with it. [[Reply: "Nineth. "]] Great, as you know, but it doesn't measure up to a kilo. To tell you that the most significant reform was the work of my successor Mrs. Zaharieva, for which I praised her based on what we had developed on a large-scale change in the Law on the Judiciary, and this was in many ways quite positive. Another question is what happened to them later. As for these 89 repairs...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u101	Your time is up, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u102	Just two sentences, I'm sorry. I can tell you, they were tabled by the Council of Ministers, but the ruling majority in parliament gave up this approach and revised it. It was a mistake that we corrected, and I think it's good and there's no reason to be criticized for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Professor Mihailov for a replica, then associate Professor Ivanov for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct led by the best intentions. Now, if we continue this way, Mr. Chairman, under your leadership, we'll be back somewhere around 5:30. At 6 pm, as we say, in an affective state to most of the people in the Chamber, when no one listens anymore and wants to have a targeted constructive debate. There's no debate going on right now. Here I heard memories of empires, who is what, for 89 paragraphs, for the Ministry of Interior intervened, and we are currently discussing a strictly defined part of the budget. Please, I do not want to propose an end to this debate, but I warn you that the way we are walking and the speed at which we are going, the way the debate is being conducted at the moment, and it is not constructive, will not lead us to a good end today. In the end, we will again come to exchange insults, that there is no silence to the opposition, and that does not correspond to the truth. It's just saying things that have nothing to do with this debate and the discussion that we have right now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u105	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov, you're absolutely right. Colleagues, let us return to the specific texts on which we should proceed to the vote after, hopefully, a few minutes. For a statement? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u106	Mr. President, honourable Members, my concern is that it has not been time, we talk a little bit about judicial reform and goes after this so-called judicial reform in the canal, and so until next time. We are now on the subject of the budget, and I just said when my colleague Zarkov and I exchanged lines and duplicates that I do not actually believe that the reduction of 20 million in the prosecution's budget will lead to who knows what cataclysm. That's not the problem. The problem is, Mr. Hristo Ivanov just spit it out, although I see that there is some discrepancy in the general position of the ruling majority because Mr. Zarkov said that this is not a reform, and Mr. Hristo Ivanov said that this is part of the reform. Now, however, I would like to remind you of something else. You said that July we will make a new update of the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u107	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall and please take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u108	Why? Because you are not ready with the reforms of the various policies in your coalition agreement to be reflected in the State Budget Act, and because of that, for July, you said you would make an update precisely to finance them or whatever else you want to do. Okay. If we assume that this is the case, then what judicial reform do we have here at the table that we are looking at, which will be structurally defining, which will be financially justified so that you can come out and say that this is part of the reform of the system?! And I agree because the Minister said that this is part of the structural changes, which means that structural changes mean reform in another language. Now, I don't want to protect anyone, but for example, healthcare as a system, is everyone satisfied with the health care system? No. Well, then let's cut her budget, too. Why don't we cut her budget, as we did just now for hospital care, as Mr. Kiril Ananiev here tells me, and any other such non-functioning system?! You're contradicting each other. You say: we want to make reforms, so we need time, and you at the table here in plenary with the majority and at all in the entire Chamber of Deputies are not proposing any reform. That's the problem, and it looks like it's just some kind of shady regime because you don't like the Attorney General. Colleagues, there are problems in the other parts of the judiciary. I'm beginning to think that this is starting to fade your supposedly great desire for some reform. I think you'd rather live up to the expectations of your constituents and that you're fighting some epic battle with the Attorney General. The very fact, by the way, that two weeks ago, when you set up a committee that needs to take a step forward towards amendments to the Constitution, you very, very much, as they say, the opposition does not count it as alive. However, without the opposition, there is really no way these changes can happen if you really want such changes to happen at all. In this regard, I am beginning to think that everything is being done with just one goal of simply controlling some part of the judiciary. If you want to make some kind of reform, a serious reform, a constitutional one, whether through legislation under the Law on the Judiciary or other laws that have some binding character, then you should have started elsewhere. This reform you're talking about is not going to happen, you're not self-sufficient! They should be involved in the prosecution, a court, a law enforcement investigation, the Justice Department, non-governmental organizations, and you're going straight back. Come on, now we're gonna cut 20 million to the D.A.'s office to show that we justice fighters here have punished this bad D.A. Okay, you're gonna change it, you're gonna do something, you're gonna come up with some other form, and then what?! Really Mr. Balachev was right. Which Attorney General back in the years did you like him? It's not the Attorney General's job to be liked, and if he's liked, then there's something wrong with this whole thing. I just want to tell you that your approach is wrong, and if you really care about this system and want to do something meaningful, you should have started with reforms, they should be tied financially and reflected in the budget. And not Mr. Karimansky between the first and second votes had the idea to cut the prosecution down 20 million from the budget. That's what's so bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u109	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Here's your speech, Mr. Drenchev. Then there's Mr. Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to talk about budget and numbers and specifics when the main parameters of the reform are not clear which has been proclaimed. It has indeed been three months since you took over the government, since you formed a cabinet, and I really hoped, since the change in the judiciary was an extremely well-proclaimed element of the election campaign, that immediately and effectively some change would begin, which we expect you to bring into your files, which you entered the National Assembly, elected by your constituents, because they believed there would be some reform. As I told you before on another occasion, now is a different occasion, but I can tell you the same thing: the budget is here We see no reform, but we see a focus in the person of the Attorney General and a Satanization of the Prosecutor's Office only and alone. You've come to the point of accusing the prosecution of sympathy. It's a total nonsense. Breeding for two years was at the fingertips of the prosecutor's office. We have suffered a lot, not only the leadership of a party, but also hundreds of members who have been repressed in some way. Party ARGUING organised entry into the Courthouse and search for the Attorney General at the time when he was at the height of his power. So you cannot accuse us in any way that we suffer from unnecessary sympathies and specifically for the personality of Mr. Geshev or the entire system. We do not believe that the prosecution is the only element in the judiciary that needs reform. In general, the entire judiciary is a state-opened system, which, for the reason that it does not work well in Bulgaria, leads to the fact that our economy does not work well, leads to that the demographic disaster is producing such dimensions; it leads to that many of our compatriots are evacuating from Bulgaria in the direction of Western Europe and everywhere else, and across the ocean. I very much hope that obviously will not happen with this discussion of the budget, but at least on the stated budget renovation in three months, to see not only wishes for some figures. At the moment, I do not even want to comment on them because, as we saw yesterday, of all the 120 proposals that the opposition had tabled, none of them were accepted. In that case, there is no point in talking in substance, but it is better to talk in principle. I strongly object to the fact that a party is somehow sympathetic to the prosecution. On the contrary, it's the opposite. I hope that the next time we look at the budget, obviously this budget, as well as we look at it, is pointless, you will be able to show us not only specific costs, but also the reasons to do so and to start from where we need to start first reforms, then costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u111	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev, although there was nothing in your speech under art. 2 and under art. 3. I apologize for the remark I make to you, but the general budget is discussed in the first vote, and now we are on the second and we are discussing concrete texts. Is there a line to Mr. Drenchev's statement? I won't. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my statement is on the budget of the judiciary so that there are no ambiguities, because in motivation we will probably go a little further from this topic. I listened very carefully to the arguments of colleagues, including the Minister of Justice. Let's start from there, fellow Members, that the judiciary undoubtedly needs reform and undoubtedly needs reform not only the prosecution but also the other parts of the judiciary. That's what we have consensus on, isn't it? You know that Bulgarian citizens are not happy with the work of the court, you know that foreign investors are not happy with the work of the court. Part of the institutional dialogue must be this. The climate is also deteriorating by decisions regarding ownership and protection of property and foreign investors. That famous replica by French Ambassador Xavier Laper de Caban about the rotten apples was on the occasion of a court decision in connection with a French investor. But let's not go back that far. We have consensus on this subject. The point is that since 2016 there has been an institutional crisis in Bulgaria. That DPS in all of its documents has been saying that. This crisis began with the war between the executive power and the presidential institution. With the war between different institutions, excuse me for using this word, it is not suitable for today. [[Heckling]] I apologize, well, let the opposition be, let it be the lack of dialogue between the institutions, caused very severe damage to the stability and stability in Bulgaria and the three choices made themselves are a function of this interinstitutional opposition. With today's budget of the judiciary, we see a criminal operation by the executive to a part of the judiciary. Why is he being punished? It wouldn't be criminal if the draft budget of the judiciary of the Council of Ministers under art. 2 was minus that 20 million. Here we are doing it demonstrably, we are putting in a draft of the Council of Ministers, then through a MP, even if he is the chairman of the Budget Committee, we are demonstrably removing 20 million from the budget of one of the parts of the judiciary. Reforms want an approach, they want a consensus, they want an interinstitutional dialogue. I can't find the hot water with this, can I? They don't want opposition. They don't want criminal operations. They want dialogue because I will tell you, and all lawyers will tell you: no reform of the judiciary can take place if it does not participate. It will simply not be a reform if all parts of the judiciary are not involved in the parliament, the executive power, the civil society. But what's happening is not what's supposed to happen. Madam Minister, you're talking about programming budgeting. Do you think you know what programme budgeting is? [[Reply.]] You're sure? If I were to ask you how many programs your budget has, can you answer me? [[Reply.]] I'm sure you can't, but that's not incompetence. That's another topic. I would just like to point you to something else. The programme budgeting is not a panacea, dear colleagues. It is a very complex process in which, if there are no precise and measurable criteria, we talked with Mr. Ananiev and Mr. Valchev, which lead to precise objectives, the programming budgeting is nonsense. Programme budgeting shall not apply here. I'll give you an example of programming budgeting. Are you satisfied with the state of Bulgarian education? [[Heckling]] Well, no one's happy. It is not about the fact that one or another or a third government has not conducted policies that are better in the direction. There's a programme budgeting there, and it's real. That's where it was first introduced. Well, when there are no criteria? With no measure? By not having an accurate assessment of the goals achieved? That is, programme budgeting could have been introduced when these criteria had already been introduced into the justice system, not only in the prosecution, in the court, everywhere. They're gone. Therefore, this is not an attempt to reform. It's some kind of penal operation that won't lead to reforms. We don't want to protect anyone. We want to say that this will not lead to reforms. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This majority budget action is in the wrong direction. That's why I appeal to you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u113	Mr. Tsonev, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u114	Of course, Mr. Chairman, I will not speak as Hristo Ivanov two minutes above time, but perhaps one. Thank you for reminding me. I think you know what this is about. This is not the direction of reform that is best-intentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u115	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Is there a line to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u116	Mr. Tsonev, in the last 10 years and 20 years you were also in the police station. Many changes were made not to use the word "reforms" because it was slightly compromised in the education system. Some of them were late, some perhaps insufficient, not made to the end, but these changes are a fact. One of these changes also concerns what you have talked about in the programme budgeting. Maybe the best international confessions were created. One of the best rating systems in the world. It allowed us to compose a complex assessment of quality and realization. Each indicator in this complex assessment is based on complete, accurate and verifiable information in registers where each one can enter and meet the requirements and most closely approaches, including this programming budgeting. The big problem with programming budgeting is to make indicators. We have budget programmes, Minister Yordanova can open a budget implementation decree and see how many budget programmes she has in her budget. But what you will see is that performance indicators are very difficult to do to meet the so-called smart criteria. Even then, when we have the best system, we still can't appreciate it. We can't appreciate whether the teacher teaches well at each university, we can't assess whether his curriculum and his curriculum are the most current and relevant to the labour market. We appreciate the realization, but we can't appreciate it inside. We can't appreciate if he's demanding enough because education isn't about studying from session to session, from exam to exam, but about studying all year round. Many, many other factors of the environment cannot be appreciated even when we have. That's why I asked the minister how he would assess whether the judge made the decision on his conscience. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So it's hard even in education, because we don't handle measurable categories, but we have results that are irresistible, long-term, lateral, invisible, and very difficult to evaluate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u117	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Mr. Nestorov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Tsonev, the reason why criminal justice has the lowest credit of trust is because there is never a happy country. On the one hand, they say, "They didn't punish him enough, on the other hand, they say, "Why did the man get picked up?" In fact, on the one hand, the lack of specific reform in this system causes some people to ride this discontent in society. On the other hand, the fixation on 11 people prevents these same people from admitting that the budget reflects the real opinion of the entire judiciary. And the judicial system is a system in which great professionals work in court, in the prosecution, in the investigation, and I use this highest tribune in the country to congratulate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u119	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Mr. Karimansky, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u120	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonev, you are right that in programming budgeting there is a need for basic performance and efficiency indicators when it is done. I very much hope that what Krasimir Valchev says that there has been such a programme budgeting in the past governments. However, the government still has a framework for the programme to be implemented, there is a need to identify the problems in the sectors and to identify them so as to avoid duplication of processes that can only deepen the problems and not solve them. It is precisely the period in which we need such establishment of duplicate processes in individual systems, including justice, that we will use until the update, so that during the update there can indeed be efficiency and efficiency criteria for all the criteria that can be created in a single programming budgeting. But I wonder at something that impresses me in all those more than 10 years, why is there not enough detailed, in-depth cost analysis of benefits, such as does not require programme budgeting only, but what is required under the Public Finance Act? In many of the laws which I have seen and which I have reviewed, including in the Court of Auditors' notes, there is one withdrawal of numbers, as it is said, for analysis of costs-benefits and not having an in-depth calculation of how to prove individual cost-benefits analysis models. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u121	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Mr. Tsonev for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! In fact, the three lines focused on what I wanted to be the central topic of my speech that programming budgeting is effective and results when there are clear criteria that are clearly measurable and lead to clear objectives. Since this is very difficult in finances, budgeting is obviously not happening. The setting of a certain system of programming budgeting before these criteria are established, Mr Karimanski, until the budget update will not even have been talked about these criteria, let alone be done in three months. It's quite complex matter, and there's no reason to blame this one or that one. She just has to work it out. If it is not developed, there is no programme budgeting and there is nothing wrong with that, nowhere is it said that the emancipation of budget equipment is programme budgeting. That's absolutely not true! There is a programme budgeting where it does not produce results so that we do not absoluteize this topic. But my emphasis was on this experience in this budget. We're putting the cart in front of the horse. If the horse had to be in front of the wagon, as is right, it had first the criteria, their measureability and so on, and then programme budgeting. And with regard to what you last said, Mr. Karimansky, we haven't had any in the last 10 years, Mr. Karimansky, I have said it many times in this tribune. According to research that the European institutions do, Bulgaria is last in efficiency of spending public funds. He's been passing a couple of places since the last one and he's back and we've said it many times. In other words, there is also a need for reform of public finances. But all of this must be done as it should be in dialogue between the institutions, not in opposition, if we want there to be a real result. Otherwise, someone will fight some battles and the whole country will suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u123	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Is there anyone who would like to speak under art. Art. 2 and Art. 2 3? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. Colleagues, we will vote on both texts separately. Vote art. 2 in the version proposed by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mr. Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u125	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u127	Thank you, colleagues. Vote 194 MPs in the House and 2 online. 196 total: 112 in the House and 2 online.. 114 total, against 80, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on Professor Rumen Gechev's proposal. Prof. Gechev's proposal, which concerns art. 3, para. 6. I'll read it again. The proposal made by Professor Rumen Gechev is the text of para. 6 to acquire the following content, namely: the monthly savings of the funds under para. 1, II, t. 1 in the section on the remuneration of the people's representations and related regulated additional expenses, formed under the Rules of Procedure for the organization and activities of the National Assembly shall be used to finance policies and measures to support people with disabilities under art. 109, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act at the expense of the budgetary relationship of the budget of the National Assembly with the central budget. We only vote on this proposal by Professor Gechev. Mr. Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u129	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u131	Thank you, colleagues. They voted 125 MPs in the House and 2 online " 127" total: 95 in the Chamber and 2 online "97" total, against 4, abstention 26. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u132	You didn't read that he was out. 7 and renumbering, respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u133	Allinei 7 and 8 will put them separately to the vote, Mr. Zarkov. [[Heckling]] Exactly. Professor Gechev's proposal is for amendment to para. 6, then for dropping out of para. 7 and renumber para. Eight and nine. There will be separate votes. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] Colleagues, re-vote Professor Gechev's proposal I read. Mr. Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u135	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u137	Thank you, colleagues. Colleagues, given that there is no quorum, 15 minutes rest. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Ivanov, decisions of the National Assembly are taken when there is a quorum and a majority... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] If there is no quorum, how can we make a decision? Mr. Ivanov, read the Rules, but not the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Fifteen-minute break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u138	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. In view of the upcoming re-vote, I ask for verification of the quorum. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u139	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u140	After checking the quorum!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u141	The procedure is before the inspection!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u142	We've already started checking the quorum!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u143	Cancel the vote! My procedure is in connection with this inspection. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u144	Colleagues, sign up. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u145	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u146	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u147	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u148	Thank you. Registering in the hall 149 MPs plus 2 online There's a quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u149	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u150	First was Anna Alexandrova, then Peter Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u151	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. You have once again violated the Rules of Procedure, Art. 65 is adamant.. Registration of colleagues is carried out only in the case of re-vote. We voted before the break the second time and this is in violation of art. 65. The result of the re-vote is final. Third time you allow yourself from this place to your person and in the person of your deputy to violate the Rules of the National Assembly. I'm asking you one more time. We will really refer to the Constitutional Court, we promise you firmly and categorically in order to resolve this problem once and for all, and your interpretation element, which your colleagues say there is no act, by your logic we must vote five times if there is no quorum on the respective vote, that is not normal! I don't know how to explain it better. And the coworker will come out after me now. You are not honored at your level and at the level of this tribune. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Peter Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u153	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you with a proposal. Mr. Chairman, in my work with the website of the National Assembly, I personally find the same as quite informative, quite detailed, the information is quite complete, up-to-date, conducted in a timely manner, for which at least my admirations towards the administration you lead, which supports it. I am opening a clamp, as I am not familiar with the case of colleagues from the DPS with the website of the National Assembly, my assessment is on the side of this case, outside this case I would like to say it so that I can be correct to everyone in the Chamber. But, Mr. Chairman, I have a proposal to you in the panel, where the individual information of each Member of the National Assembly is indicated, in the menu where it is correctly reflected what is the activity of each Member of the National Assembly, my proposal is to create a new small menu. Since I have one so far, I will probably have more at this rate that makes third votes, we can see a fourth, if no one does anything, I do not react here to the opposition MPs, I will probably need this new column, which I suggest to be created on the site, to fill quite quickly by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u154	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. We'll think about the proposal. Are there any other procedures? I won't. We are revising the editorial proposal proposed by Rumen Gechev to amend para. 6. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u156	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u157	Yeah. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS. It's loud and loud. Reply by GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u158	I call off this vote and take 30 minutes off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u159	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. Please take your seats. Rumen Gechev's proposal to amend art. 3, para. 6 did not gather the necessary support. We move on to the next editorial proposals, which are para. 7 down. [[Reference from the reference: "They are all related to para. 6. "The People's Representative Kostadin Angelov wants the floor for a procedure."]] Come in for a procedure, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u160	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, something unprecedented is happening today in this room. This is the second time we have rested, for the third time, for the fourth time we have voted against the Rules of Procedure. Please announce on the microphone to enter the protocol: is the proposal accepted, is not it accepted? Clear and precise. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u161	I think I've announced it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u162	No, you didn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u163	I said we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u164	We keep going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Is the offer accepted or not accepted? That's the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u165	Thank you, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u166	So we're moving on. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u167	First it was Georgi Svilenski, then Peter Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, something unprecedented is really happening in the plenary. Yesterday or that day, we all supported the proposal to increase funds for disadvantaged people. All together! This proposal, which is editorial, said: the savings from the National Assembly budget to be directed to policies for people with disabilities!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u169	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u170	Read the text. And that needs to be made clear. Every year the National Assembly makes some savings. The proposal that was made was for these savings to be directed at people with disabilities. I understand, you're right, Mr. Angelov. Unprecedentably. It is unclear why the National Assembly not only did not decide to reject, did not decide to take part in this vote at all. It's incomprehensible to me, too. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u171	Mr. Chobanov, it's you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to budget and budgetary relations, it is good to have such proposals justified, to know what they are doing behind them and not to mix the budgetary relations between two absolutely different budgets that have nothing to do with each other. The budget is over 60 billion and there is no problem to devote these funds to people with disabilities without making it a fair and unnecessary discussion in the way that we started it. [[Applause from DPS.]] As we have seen, the central budget allows, there is sufficient flexibility. It included 40 million for the subway without looking for any additional source. Turn on 20, turn on 30, turn on 40 million for people with disabilities as much as it takes, as the estimates show, to make efforts with regard to this really big problem that affects us as people, affects our humanity, affects our nature. So do your best in this regard, but let us not spoil the members of the budget as they are scheduled, as they have been voted on in the Commission and with Adhok proposals that some of you absolutely cannot and will not think.. I say it most categorically and responsibly, trying to create problems where they are not. At the expense of the central budget, let us sign these funds, we will all support them with two hands and move forward. We have no time to waste and the situation around us proves it unambiguously. The sooner we accept this budget, the better. And to think about how we're gonna make up for people and business for what's ahead of us, and it's not gonna be easy at all. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov, for this procedure. We're going to vote on art. 3 in the version proposed by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Dear colleagues, we are voting Art. Three on the committee. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u175	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u177	They voted 173 MPs in the House and 2 online " 175" in total: 159 in the House and 2 online " 161" in total, against 14 abstentions. The motion is accepted. We're moving on. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u178	Let's continue with art. 4. Art. 4. (1) It shall adopt the budget of the Court of Auditors for 2022 as follows: (According to the table in the Report.) The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4. Art. 5. (1) adopt the budget of the President's Administration for 2022 as follows: (According to the table in the Report.) The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5. Art. 6. (1) It shall adopt the budget of the Council of Ministers for 2022 as follows: (According to the table in the Report.) A proposal was received from the MP Plamen Abrovski: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 in row II "Costs' is replaced by "Costs' by "Costs' and "Costs' and "Costs' are replaced by "Costs'. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 7 the words "Politicals in the area of the conservation and increase of forests" and the number "29 674,3" shall be deleted; b) points 8 and 9 become points 8 and 9 respectively. 7 and 8; (c) point 10 shall be t. 9 and in it the number (d) points 10.1 and 10.2 become 9.1 and 9.2 respectively; (e) point 10.3., with the words (f) of row The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs: "3." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in row I, the amount of income, aid and donations is reduced by 55 833,80 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (b) in row II the cost is reduced by 97 204,00 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (c) of row 1. The amount is reduced by 97 204.00 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (d) of row 1.1. The amount is reduced by 73 411.00 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (e) of line III "Budget relationships (transfers) - (+/-) " the sum shall be reduced by 41 370,20 thousand. lv. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. The following amendments shall be made: (a) Row 7 "Politicals in the area of conservation and increase of forests' is deleted; (b) of row 10 "Other budget programmes (total) ', includingThe amount is reduced by 67 529.7 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (c) row 10.3 (d) of row lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments shall be made: In para. 2, p. 10.3 "Budget program "Safety on the Food Chain" funds to be increased so as to allow an increase in funds for the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency by 10%. To make appropriate adjustments in para. 1, item II "Costs', p. 1 "Current costs t. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Daniel Petrov and a group of MPs: "1." A new Article 6 para. is being updated. 2, p. 7 with the following text: The size of the budget under art. 6, para. 2, p. 7 Policy in the area of conservation and increase of forests of size 29 674 300 BGN increased to 40,434,000, which is 34%. 2. An Annex to this Annex is updated. 4 - Current short-term forecast for the period 2022 - 2024: - Motives to the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, in art. 2.17.3 Policy on the conservation and enhancement of forests 2.19.6; - The size of the budget per item. 7 Policy in the area of conservation and increase of forests of size 29 674 300 BGN increase to 40 434 000, which is 34%. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6. Article 7 "The Constitutional Court's budget. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8. Under art. 9 has a proposal of the MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-45: It's five o'clock. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in row II, the cost is reduced by 2 120,60 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (b) in row 1. The amount is reduced by 2 120,60 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (c) of row 1.1. The amount is reduced by 1,630,00 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (d) the amount shall be reduced by 2 120,60 thousand per line III. lv. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. The following amendments shall be made: (a) the amount of the budget programme is reduced by 2 120,60 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • b) of line lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9. Under art. 10 has a proposal from the MP Ekaterina Zaharieva. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 1, para. 5, t. 11.2. Proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Kostadin Kostadinov and Tsoncho Ganev. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 1, para. 5, t. 11. 2. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10 listed below in the table: Art. 10. (1) Adopt the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2022 as follows: (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes, as follows: (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2022 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2022 by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as follows: (4) Confirms targeted current and capital transfers abroad for official development aid and humanitarian aid totaling 6 273.2 thousand. BGN, including 1 073.2 thousand. lv. under the updated common agreement establishing a governance and commitment framework for the Refugee Mechanism in Turkey between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission and the model of a certificate of financial contribution approved by the European Commission and representatives of the governments of the Member States on 18 July 2018 (verified by law, SG...) and subsidies and other current transfers for non-profit legal entities for official development aid and humanitarian aid total of 1 000 thousand. lv. The agreed funds may not be spent for other purposes, with no more than 5 per cent of these funds being spent on the administration of the aid. (5) Confirms a target of 3 330.4 thousand. lv. on the national contribution to 2022 for the implementation of aid measures financed through the European Peace Support Mechanism.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u179	I am opening a discussion on the provisions read by Lyubomir Karimanski, namely by art. 4 to Art. 10, including. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Desislava Taneva, come in. And Ekaterina Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My speech is about the proposals made by me and fellow MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ under art. 9, with No 47-254-04-45, and under Art. 6, with number 47-254-04-45. These are art. Art. 6 and art. 9 under the budget of the Council of Ministers and the budget of the Ministry of Finance. What do our suggestions say? Why do I want to justify them? The topics I touched on at the beginning and in the introduction of my speech under art. 1 under the budget framework. It is about the proposals in this project that the budget of the Bulgarian Agency for Food Safety and Forest Executive Agency be part of the policies budgeted under the budget of the Council of Ministers, and the Executive Agency Certification Audit of the Funds from the European Agricultural Funds is budgeted in the budget of the Ministry of Finance. Why have we made the proposal for change and for the deletion in this part of the project? Because the reform for the separation of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the Executive Forest Agency, as well as the Executive Agency Certification Audit of the Funds from the European Agricultural Funds has not been implemented, has not gone through a parliamentary debate, during a public debate either. It is stated in the coalition agreement of the ruling majority in the agreement reached by them, which in the part of...... and in other parts was transmitted, it was a novelty we all welcomed. Moreover, I would say that some of these reforms, which I am talking about now, we see them, given in the budget, are not even in this coalition agreement. For us, this approach is extremely unacceptable both in terms of publicity, transparency, motivation for such a reform, so we must be absolutely objective that this approach is unconstitutional. This contradicts the Public Finance Act. And so, as several paragraphs were dropped at the end of the draft proposal of the State Budget Act concerning reforms in other sectors, this had to be dropped too. Because the problems from a legislative point of view were absolutely identical. It became so that the reform remained only in relation to the sector.................................................................................................... The arguments for the unconstitutionality of this proposal are the same as the arguments of several dozen paragraphs, which practically implemented planned reforms in other areas of public life in the country. I believe that this is extremely incorrect, outside of all the arguments for its unconstitutionality, and it should not be accepted. And with regard to the appropriateness of reforms in their essence, we will take into account when the legislative acts themselves are proposed. All I can say is that the attitude for each of the structures will be different. We'll motivate this well enough. However, the approach offered to us is extremely unacceptable both from a public transparent and public point of view and from a constitutional point of view. Mr. Chairman, your education is indeed impressive, the coalition is certainly difficult, but based on everything that happened this morning, I would give you this advice: the coalition is difficult, not everything can happen immediately, now and the minute, but there must be a reaction whenever a political one is required, and always it is consistent with the law and the Constitution. I think one of the best things about having three choices in a row is that you are the chairman. However, this must also be defended. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Are there any lines to Dessislava Taneva? I won't. Ekaterina Zaharieva, to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the report Mr. Karimansky read, it is written that he accepts my proposal in principle. I was talking about art. 1, para. 5, where, in fact, in the central budget, a special order was created for additional funds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Just today, when the Russian Federation attacked Ukraine and expected the Bulgarian diplomats to be evacuated or provided in Odessa, the Bulgarian Consulate there, and in the capital, to be in their place and to assist every Bulgarian citizen in the territory of Ukraine, or Ukrainian, is the day when the National Assembly will obviously not accept part of my proposals. Because in fact, my proposal is only partially accepted, not in general. All over the budget, not only in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, lack of income policy. What I had suggested was 10% in order to compensate for inflation, but also 10% of missionary ones. Because not a small part of the Bulgarian diplomats work in difficult conditions and in dangerous conditions for their lives sometimes. They will stand there to evacuate Bulgarian citizens, but they will stand there with their families, at the risk of their health and life. Also in this budget at first reading, which you voted on, I noted at the time that some of the amounts needed to fulfil Bulgaria's commitment to NATO were missing. Not in any other organisation, either in the UN, in the two organisations we are currently calling and focusing on the eyes of every Bulgarian citizen. I understand the restriction, however, but I really thank the Budget Committee that at least part of the contributions have found funds for the missions, not 4 million. Three hundred thousand. BGN, and a million additional funds given, but I don't think that's really enough for what needs to be done right now for the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and in this situation. She won't calm down for a day. On the contrary, I think that we should consider very carefully, again, what is happening today, but what was expected to happen more than two months ago. I don't think anyone who doesn't even know much about the region was expecting another development. I thought that was obvious. So I hope we can think about it and see if my unacceptable proposals can still be accepted in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Is there a line to Ekaterina Zaharieva? I won't. Mr. Stankov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to express my opinion on the substance of the BABH budget. In my opinion it is extremely insufficient, the underfinancing at stake practically condemns the official control of Bulgaria and puts at risk guaranteeing the health status of animals and food safety on the Bulgarian market. In the draft budget for BABBH in the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, the budget of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency amounts to the initial budget for 2021. To compare the planned current maintenance of BABBH for 2021, it is equivalent and for 2022 it amounts to 8 million. $800,000. BGN, and the Agency's report on 31 December 2021 in this part amounted to more than 13 million, or nearly 50% more. There is no provision for an increase in income in the part of the company. The conditions of work on the ground are one of the worst and will remain so. There can be no change in this, but for adequate payment there may be. Therefore, we believe that the income should be increased by up to 20% to all specialists on the field, as well as to increase the number of staff in the Regional Directorates of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency only the specialized administration of the veterinary specialists and agronomists. In the part of the support of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, we see again a shortage of funding for implementation of basic monitoring programmes guaranteeing animal health and food safety. The lack of funds under the budget of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency for 2022 for the current maintenance amount to about 5 million. lv. and is related to the increased costs that the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency carries out for laboratory research, maintenance of laboratories, expensive supplies for the maintenance of laboratories in the system of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency with the increased costs that BABBH performs continuously, increasing fuel prices, electricity and so on. The Agency shall draw up and coordinate the implementation of the following monitoring programmes, the National Monitoring Programme for the control of residues of veterinary medicinal products and contaminants of the environment in live animals and products of animal origin; the National Programme for the control of pesticide residues in and on food of plant and animal origin; the Monitoring Programme for the Control of Contaminant Food; the National Monitoring Programme for the Control of GMOs; a Programme for products produced according to national standards and standards developed by branch organisations approved by the competent authority. In relation to the programmes implemented by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the necessary additional funds amount to around 2 million annually. lv. In the event of failure to comply with the abovementioned monitoring programmes, the European Commission may also initiate a criminal procedure for failure to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria in the part of the European Commission's administrative expenditure paragraphs of the budget for 2022. The additional funds needed in the part of the budget are estimated at nearly 9 million. BGN, such as the lack of funds in relation to the stated draft budget for the Bulgarian Agency for Food Safety in the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 is related to the funds needed for the implementation of the National Programme for the Prevention of Fertilizer, Control and Elimination of Animal Diseases and the Artillery in Bulgaria, as well as other expenses related to benefits for epizootics and maintenance. I complement that some of the activities under the Programme are as required by the European Commission in relation to monitoring results and various audits. The draft budget for the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency in the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 for the implementation of the National Programme is set out only 1 million. £800. in the part "Capital costs'. In the said draft budget for the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency The Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 has no estimated funds for capital expenditure. This sounds like a mockery of the largest official control body in the country guaranteeing food safety, respectively the health of people. In order to implement the Investment Programme of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency for 2022 funds are needed in an estimated amount of around 7 million to repair the building fund of BABBH, to acquire computers, hardware, to acquire equipment, machinery and equipment for the purchase of cars for the needs of BABBH and others. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has the oldest fleet of all state structures in the country. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. In the proposed budget in the BABBH section shows a complete misunderstanding of the nature of the activity of the large body for official control. We cannot support the proposed budget, which really lays down the suspension of the functioning of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. At least 39 million more are needed. BGN to ensure the operation of the system. Therefore, my fellow Members, I suggest that you support our proposals. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u185	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Are there any lines for Georgi Stankov? I won't. Mrs. Mehmedova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I am taking into account the budget of the Food Agency and the proposals made by the Parliamentary Group on Rights and Freedoms. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is one of the most important authorities in the country that controls food safety throughout the food chain. Regardless of the Agency's place, the truth is that the Agency's employees work on the ground in risk conditions and work overtime, and also work in a form of environment. It is therefore vital that they receive compensation for their work. The proposed increase in staff funds by 10% is in a minimal response to cover the increased costs for each of us in an inflation situation. Please support our proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Mehmedova. Are there any lines to Imren Mehmedova? I won't. First it's Mr. Karadaye's procedure, then Mrs. Atanasova. Here you are, Mr. Karadaye, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I propose that we stop the debate on the budget and move on to a more important topic which is currently the subject of the whole world. In the neighbor's woods, we have problems, we are neighbors, we can't pretend that nothing happens and we can't deal with paragraphs, points and commas here. The situation is serious and we may be the only parliament in Europe that still has no positions. At the moment, we are listening to comments from the point of view of this.. contact groups, coalitions and order of such things. Dear ladies and gentlemen, in this situation neither the power nor the coalition is more important than the state. Let us have stately conduct and attitude and take ourselves seriously in this serious situation. That's our call. All we do is ignore the seriousness of the situation we are in. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u189	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Your proposal is to suspend the consideration of this point in the Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u190	Let's come up with a declaration from the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u191	Is there an input Project on a declaration? [[Reply of MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! My procedure will be in the same sense to appeal once again to the National Assembly, to reconsider its agenda and to start moving on the agenda, which is important not only for the Bulgarian citizens, but also for Europe and the world. Almost five hours there is no agreement between the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly on a joint declaration, as we stated at the beginning of today's plenary day. A few days ago our parliamentary group proposed a text of a declaration and it has not yet been examined. Today, understanding the importance of synergies and unity, we have made many compromises and waited long enough for a common position to be formed. Mr President, I therefore insist that we interrupt the examination of the voting point and discuss the State Budget Act and begin the discussion of the declaration on behalf of the National Assembly, which is already extremely late. Besides, I'm making a second procedural proposal. I ask that at 16.00 we invite the representatives of the security services as well as the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs to participate in a closed session of the National Assembly. The situation is extremely worrying, extremely important and now is the time for the Bulgarian Parliament to show unity. Mr. Chairman, I assume you'll be putting both procedures to the vote. If you choose, on your initiative, you may submit an extraordinary item on the agenda, in this case a declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u193	Mrs. Atanasova, just to clarify at 16.00 you want the persons to be heard, if you can tell me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u194	Military intelligence, DANS, DAR...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u195	Military Intelligence, DANS, DAR. The Chief of Defense, perhaps? Yeah, okay. Any other procedures? Anyone have an opinion? Here you go, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are in an extremely complicated situation. It would therefore be irresponsible to leave the country without a budget in this situation. Currently, there are very active consultations with both our European partners and the various institutions in the country. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] Therefore, as a responsible institution, I propose that we continue to examine the budget and hold a closed meeting tomorrow to invite the services, the prime minister and get further information on the situation that is up to date and which is sufficiently detailed. [[Applause from..We continue the Change..... BSP for Bulgaria...............................................................................................]] At the moment, a hearing would not help to clarify the situation. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u197	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Yordan Tsonev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to take back this proposal, which was made by the honourable Mr. Gurov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group. Why? We're not leaving the country without a budget. We'll work all night if we have to. We say it from the DPS.. we will not leave the room until the budget is adopted. [[Private applause.]] But leaving the Bulgarian Parliament without a position tomorrow, this is a sign to our partners, a sign to Ukraine, a sign to everyone. The Bulgarian Parliament is where the institutions need to consolidate their position. We don't just need the government's position, the president's position, the government's position and the president's position. We need a position of the National Assembly. Here are all the parliamentary groups, here is the whole Bulgarian people, here is the institutionality of Bulgaria. The whole of Europe and the whole world are watching us. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and GERB SDS.]] Do you know what the comments in the networks and in the media are? We can't wait for anyone to come back from Brussels. If the prime minister has an urgent task to go, and surely there is, in connection with consolidating the European position, we will do so with the other representatives of the Cabinet, with all the services, with everything we are talking about. [[There have become MPs talking to each other.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u199	Colleagues, please take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u200	And it's not about getting some... Mr. Gurov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u201	For all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u202	It's not about getting some super up-to-date information that's gonna bring the services together. It has the current information, even online. It is about showing the position of Bulgarian statehood in the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u203	Colleagues, there are too many standing men in this room. For procedure, Mr. Bikov? Okay, here you go, and let's start with the votes afterwards. Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I really well-intentionedly call on you the opposition wants to help you right now. I don't know why you won't accept this help. In this situation the Bulgarian people, not only the Bulgarian institutions, must be united. What we offer you is our help. Don't think of it as a provocation or a bad desire. Today is the moment when this declaration must be adopted in order to be in an adequate position. Otherwise, we'll be in an inadequate position, and tomorrow may turn out to be pointless to accept this position. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u205	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Now let us proceed to the vote on all procedural proposals. First of all, I will make a procedural proposal, too, and it is today's session to extend... [[Reply: "Until Saturday. "]] No, not until Saturday, but until the end of this item on the agenda. This is my proposal until this item is completed on the agenda. First of all, we are voting on Mustafa Karadaye's proposal to end the discussion and move on to a joint declaration by the National Assembly. This proposal was made by Mustafa Karadayi, which was identically made by Dessislava Atanasova. We are voting together on this proposal. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u206	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u207	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u208	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u209	They voted 225 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 227" total: for 109, against 46 in the Chamber and 1 "47 total abstentions in the Chamber and 1 online. There's a request for a re-vote. We're listening, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u210	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm doing a re-voting procedure. Just to remind you, today is February 24th. The country's budget should have been adopted by this date December. Today to explain that the most responsible and stately behavior is to accept the budget now that we are two months late, in this complicated situation, honourable Members, do not bury your head in the sand. Let us reschedule the decision and move on to the topic that expects not only the world, the Bulgarian people expect us to take a decision and position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u211	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. I'm doing the re-voting. [[National Representative Daniel Mitov wants the floor.]] Is that really necessary? [[Reply by MP Daniel Mitov.]] Okay, one at your discretion, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will make the same proposal for re-voting. I want to justify it. Firstly, we have extended the budget until 31 March. As Mr. Tsonev said, we will sit here until we accept a budget. The state without a budget will not leave, but there is an emergency situation, an emergency situation in which we must react. This is what Bulgarian citizens expect of us, this is what our allies and partners expect of us. Amazing is the reluctance and misunderstanding of part of the majority, I say part, to understand that. Please, fellow Members, let's reschedule, let's have a conversation, let's adopt a parliament statement, then listen to the services, and we will continue the budget debate. We'll work night and day if we have to. What's that?! I can't understand what this haste is to accept some budget, given that we have tools to react to the situation and then continue the work on the budget?! Trust us, we're not trying to slow you down. [[Noise and lines.]] The way you probably perceive this situation. It's serious, our expectations are high. It is a shame that the Bulgarian Parliament still has no position on the war in Ukraine. If you had listened to us and had accepted a declaration on Ukraine two days ago, we wouldn't be in this situation right now. Let's at least react adequately now. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u213	We understand you, Mr. Mitov. We are revisiting the proposal of Mustafa Karadayi and Dessislava Atanasova to terminate the examination of this point... [[(Disruption from DPS:]] To interrupt, I apologize! Let us interrupt the consideration of this point and move on to consideration of a common position on the topic of Ukraine. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u214	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u215	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u216	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u217	They voted 230 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 232" in total: 117 against 47 in the Chamber and 1 online "48" abstentioned 66 in the Chamber and 1 online "67." The motion is accepted. It's 117 votes, which is more than half. Half is 116. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]] According to the adopted proposal, we will interrupt the consideration of this point of the Programme, namely the State Budget Act, we will move on to a discussion of a common position, and we will resume the examination of the budget once the common position is adopted. [[Reply: "Maybe not accepted. "]] Maybe she wasn't accepted, yeah. Once the debates on acceptance of the common position and voting are passed, eventually. My proposal was to continue this sitting until the end of the budget review, and I will put it to the vote. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] I know, we'll vote on your proposal as well. [[noise and lines]] But first let's extend the session. We will vote immediately and your proposal, no problem. There's no way you're gonna...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u218	In the order of entry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u219	At 16:00, let's call the Chief of Military Intelligence, the Chairman of the State Agency, the Chairman of the State Agency, the Director of the State Agency, Stefan Yanev, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Teodora Genchovska and the Chief of Defence General...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u220	We have to extend the hours first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u221	It is, first of all, to extend the session because it is already out of session at 16:00, Mrs. Atanasova. George Svilensky's comment is correct. First, we are voting on my proposal for an extension until the end of the budget, which will be resumed after the debates on the common position. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting on the proposal I have made to extend the item on the agenda, namely the Second Voting of the State Budget Act. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u223	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u225	Vote 228 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online.. total 230: 226 votes in the Chamber and 2 online.. 228 votes in total, not against, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I repeat, now that we have stopped the discussion on the budget, we are going to debate on a common position, then we will resume the review of the budget and the sitting continues until this item is completed on the agenda. We are going to vote on Dessislava Atanasova's proposal to hear the Chief of Military Intelligence, the Chairman of the SANS, the Chairman of the DAR, the Chief of Defence, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs at 16.00.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u226	In a closed session.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u227	Indoors... Yeah, when we get there, we'll vote. We are voting for Dessislava Atanasova. Vote 224 MPs in the Chamber "These online forgot to ask them: for 171, against 39, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. At 4:00 a.m., we expect the designated persons. Please contact them. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to do two procedures. The first is in view of the importance of what we are going to discuss right now. I propose to include the cameras of BNT 1 and BNR regarding the point we will now consider, the topic we will now consider, namely the debates on a declaration by the National Assembly. That's one of my suggestions. My other proposal is, since we just voted for 4:00 p.m., that the relevant officials be called in. I think that the information we will receive from them will be important, in view of the possible drawing up of such a declaration, so I am simply making a procedural proposal that what we are going to do as a declaration should be, once the persons concerned are heard. That's my idea. Once again, what they would tell us is important to me for the possible text of such a declaration, I am not saying that there is one at the moment, but to what we are going to review. My proposal is merely technical, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u229	I understand you, Mr. Petrov, but if we listen to the services, this will most likely happen in a closed session, then we will form our common position based on information received from the services in a closed session, I'm not sure it's the best option.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u230	I'm not saying yes... and pointing out inside confidential information. I'm just saying that what we would learn from them is, in my opinion, important for us to decide on the declaration. I'm just suggesting, Mr. Chairman, you understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u231	So your suggestion is... we have to sort it out somehow. The discussion of moving him after... [[The President and the People's Representative Peter Petrov make specifics when microphones are switched off.]] General Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We have just voted to interrupt the budget work, to discuss and adopt a declaration and then at 4:00 p.m. to listen to these officials, not to list them all. In this regard, Mr. Chairman, in order for us to be able to examine a draft declaration, I suggest that we interrupt the meeting. Call on the Chairman's Council to clarify, after all, between the political groups in Parliament, the text of this declaration, to be submitted here, to be discussed and adopted by 16.00. After the hearing, to accept a statement, what are we going to hear besides details? Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u233	Thank you, General. Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u234	Mr President, you are obliged to put to the vote what has been proposed by your fellow Member from the AGE, but the Parliamentary Chamber has voted and accepted these two proposals. The declaration that Parliament will discuss and eventually vote is political. There is no link between hearing services first, then discussing and accepting this declaration. On the second proposal, the declaration and the draft of the declaration were discussed hours between the political leadership of the parties in parliament. We have a project, and I ask that we proceed immediately to its discussion, so that we do not waste parliamentary time, even more so that we are waiting for the adoption of a budget afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. [[The National Representative Nikolai Drenchev wants the floor.]] Tell me, Mr. Drenchev. Mrs. Zaharieva's arguments are what we discussed with Mr. Petrov here outside the microphones.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u236	Quite briefly in the direction in which Mr. Petrov made the proposal. Whatever we discuss, it should be based on some facts that we will learn at 16:00 p.m. In this regard, it is absolutely normal to continue discussing the budget by 16:00 p.m., to get acquainted with the real factual situation, not by propaganda media, but by people who really have a competent opinion on the matter, and when we come up with one position, it should step on reality and there is no need to rush to prove our loyalty to whom. You can tell me who.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u237	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev, for this procedure. Mr. Petrov, you insist on your proposal for order? You're supporting him? Thank you. You're withdrawing it. I'm recording that you're withdrawing it. Thank you. I put to the vote the proposal to turn on the cameras and microphones of BNT 1 and BNR. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u238	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u239	Thank you. Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u240	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u241	They voted 216 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online.. a total of 218: for 103 in the Chamber, against 75 in the Chamber, abstentioned 38 in the Chamber and 2 online "40." The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u242	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u243	It's a re-vote. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u244	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u245	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u246	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u247	They voted 215 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 217" total: 108 in the Chamber, 74 in the Chamber and 1 online "75," 33 abstentions in the Chamber and 1 online "34." The proposal has not been accepted " 108" are for 217. It had to be 109 to be accepted. [[Noise.]] That's it. [[The President and the Chairs of the parliamentary groups shall make specifics with microphones excluded.]] Honourable Members, given the decisions taken earlier to proceed to a discussion of a common position, I am again formally proposing on the basis of art. 47, para. 5 of the Rules, including the following point, to be considered immediately, namely: Draft Declaration on the condemnation of the aggressive actions of the Russian Federation, violating the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. That's the offer. I'm asking for a vote. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u248	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u249	Thank you. Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u251	Thank you both. They voted 223 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 225" total: 187 in the Chamber and 1 online " 188," against 22 in the Chamber and 1 online "23" abstentions 14. The motion is accepted. We are moving on to this item on the agenda. Here you are, Mr. Gurov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, in view of the seriousness of the situation, we have made maximum efforts on all sides of this House to propose a draft decision on a declaration which I will now present: Project! The delegation of power National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria - taking into account the statutes of the United Nations; - stepping on the results of the Helsinki Process and the Final Act of the Conference of 1 August 1975 and related subsequent documents of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe; - taking into account the arrangements reached at the Minsk Memorandum of 19 September 2014 and the package of measures for the implementation of the Minsk Agreements adopted and signed on 12 February 2015; - recalling the texts of the Budapest Memorandum on Safety Guarantees relating to Ukraine's accession to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty of 5 December 1994; - remaining in consistent positions supporting the sovereignty, territorial integrity and democratic development of Ukraine DECLARES: - Totally condemns the gross violation of international law by the Russian Federation and the violation of territorial integrity through military intervention against Ukraine. - Supports its partners and allies in the European Union and NATO in discussing a package of measures, including sanctions, in order to de-escalate the conflict. - Supports the Bulgarian government to take the necessary measures, corresponding to the seriousness of the challenges to international security architecture. - Supports the Bulgarian government to consider and offer assistance to Ukraine corresponding to the opportunities of the Bulgarian state. - Supports the Bulgarian government to insist that the protection of the life and health of civilians from the region be an absolute priority. - Supports the Bulgarian government to assist in obtaining immediate assistance to Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarians living in Ukraine with Ukrainian citizenship, including, if necessary, evacuation. - He expects the Bulgarian government to propose and present a plan to deal with the consequences of the military actions. - Insists that the Russian Federation should immediately cease the military action and return to compliance with international law in full. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u253	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. I'm opening a discussion on the Project. Mr. Ghurov, can you print it for me, and then we can distribute it in the hall? Colleagues, The draft declaration will now be copied and distributed to the MPs. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u254	Mr. Chairman, this is about the text, not really about, but entirely the text of the draft declaration that we discussed from morning until noon. As you well know, because you were also present at most of the talks, and the other representatives of the various parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, we were able to unite around all these points, except one for which we have had an objection. It is the second point, which sounds like this: it supports its partners and allies in the European Union and NATO in discussing a package of measures, including sanctions, in order to de-escalate the conflict. Our opinion is that sanctions should not be imposed. Our opinion is that in this conflict Bulgaria will suffer damage, which will be serious economic damage, which we do not see at this time anyone is concerned about who will pay them. They will be damage to both the state and the citizens. They will be both collective and public and private. Who's gonna pay for it?! Is it in the Bulgarian national interest to accept declarations with which we practically take sides in the conflict? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Okay, if it's natural, tell me who's gonna pay? We're not here for a race to declare our faithful vassality. Bulgaria is an independent state. This independent state must make its own decisions. If it is in our national interest to impose sanctions, we will impose them. I want someone to come out here and explain to me: exactly what Bulgaria benefits from imposing sanctions, as a result of which we will lose. What exactly is the use of sanctions resulting from which we will break the strained relations already for years with Russia? Who's profiting from this? Is Bulgaria winning?! What do Bulgarian citizens gain, what does the Bulgarian people gain? Who needs this? Why in the end, when there was a much more compromise text drawn up behind which we were ready to stand, and everyone else stood, without GERB at some point, why do we need to create such tensions? What's the point? The others had accepted. Are we in a race? Are we waiting for someone to tell us what we should do? Is it our decision, or is it someone else's? And no, we're not at war because Ukraine is not a NATO member if someone comes out and explains how we have any commitments. As are our commitments to Russia, so are our commitments to Ukraine. [[Loud noise and lines.]] None! We must not forget this: there are our compatriots there, for whom no one has said a word before. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] No one's said a word before. [[Loud noise.]] There should not be such hypocrisy in this situation, because there are currently mobilized Bulgarians. Did anyone put the question to that? [[(Reply from?) We continue the Change?:? Yes.?)]] Nobody asked the question. No lines, please. Then take your word and say what you have to say. Speak with facts, because the facts are as follows: Bulgaria for the last eight years, since the crisis in Ukraine, because it is eight years old, the ninth has already entered, has not put it once, not once, not once for the third time I will say it, at an official level the issue of the rights of the Bulgarians and their right to self-determination. All the other countries did. Hungary made it a European member state; Romania made it a European member state; Greece, which has only a few thousand remaining Greeks, and how many Greeks, is another topic. She put that question last week. She talked about the fact that her countrymen should be guaranteed the right to live and protect themselves in a possible conflict. And today, when we commented on this text, there were obstructions about whether to use the word "sonararchs" because, see, someone could say something. Who can say anything about having countrymen in Ukraine? Do we? We do. And some of them are Bulgarian citizens, too. This is all we are currently commenting on is a parade of hypocrisy. Yes, there is a violation of international law. Fact! Let there be aggression. Fact! As there has been aggression on the part of the United States in the last 30 years all over the globe. The terminology that Putin uses today is the same one that used before Clinton, and then Bush, one to one, including their motivation for their military actions, is the one that will not cause damage to civilians. As if I were listening to Clinton's statement in 1999 about the attack on Yugoslavia, there would be no damage to civilian sites. We've seen this movie. This imperial hypocrisy is also well known to us. Bulgaria was 45 years part of another foreign policy bloc and union, and alliances. There are no eternal alliances, there are eternal interests. Where are the Bulgarian interests now?! Do we have any interest in participating in this conflict and what we gain? Nothing. What are we losing? We're losing a lot! We're losing! And here, because I have now heard a reply, the freedom we have lost years ago, because if we were a free country, we would not be discussing here a statement on the grounds that others accepted and we are not yet. Who are we competing with? What kind of hypocrisy is that?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u255	Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u256	There are no eternal alliances, there are eternal interests. Very soon, the question of our membership in these alliances can be raised because the Bulgarian people are talking here to be a single no, the Bulgarian people are not united at this time. Our Bulgarian people are currently asking themselves this very question "Whether something bigger will happen because people are scared." The situation, as you can see, is tense. What we tell them at this point that we are practically joining the conflict without being a party. We will not support such a declaration. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u257	Mr. Kostadinov, the word "vasility" and "lack of freedom" are unacceptable when we talk about our own country, regardless of the context. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! Sir, my line is really to you. There is only one person evidently in this hall, which is at a race for its own popularity, on the back of the emotions of the people at this time, on the back and the fear of the people in Ukraine and on the back of the responsibility to everyone else in this room, from which no one else stood up and did not allow themselves at such a time to come out and make at the last moment this mark. Thank you all, colleagues. [[(Applause from.. We continue the Change.....................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u259	Any other lines to Kostadin Kostadinov? I won't. A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u260	I've always been very interested when this tribune is spoken in a foreign language. I couldn't figure out what "remark" means? I know of a writer named Erich Maria Remark. I don't know, maybe that's who you meant?! Here we must speak only about our national interests. I didn't hear anything in your reply in this direction and I can't understand, since we clearly say and show, and it is a fact, including in the words of your foreign minister, I say yours, because it is from your government, which said: "We will impose sanctions and pay the price. Who's gonna pay for it? If Genchovska pays it, I don't mind. I have to look at her declaration, see if she has that kind of money to pay for it. If we Bulgarian citizens will pay them, with our taxes, we are definitely against it. We're not paying the price for another man's war, which, by the way, is being instigated on the other side of the ocean. Because everything that's happened in recent months has been strained, and it's strained on both sides of the border. Never in a war is there any guilty and innocent on one side alone. Remember that!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u261	Now for the procedure Iskra Mihailova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u262	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. During Dr. Kostadinov's speech in the Chamber was shown an obscene gesture that does not only go to the National Assembly, to the topic we are discussing, but also to the education that each of us should show not only here but everywhere. Please, in case you have not noticed it, since you have not made any remark or imposed any procedure, to request recordings of the cameras and to make sure that this colleague of ours I can point out who he is, I simply forgot his name, it is better known as Izo Gambling and to do what is necessary for such behaviour, which is acceptable for bars and discos, not to be allowed in the National Assembly, especially at the time when we comment on such essential issues about the state. As far as sanctions are concerned, I'm just gonna tell you that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u263	Are you taking a statement yet?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u264	No. ...gas has risen by 19% in the last few hours. Think! [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u265	Thank you for this procedure. I demand to Hristo Petrov. Are there any other statements on the draft declaration? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Please, Mr. Ivanov, I ended the discussion! Okay, here you go. Let's hear Hristo Ivanov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u266	Mr. Chairman, I apologize, it's my fault, we just didn't have the text of the Declaration, and until we could react... I apologize. A few words about the Bulgarian national interest, because it is important to say this. The Bulgarian national interest is the international law to be respected when there is such a criminal violation of international law to have a reaction to this. And this reaction to be consolidated, we should participate in it, because we have an absolutely lifesaving need for international law to be respected, because this is what our security is building on, the possibility of investment in Bulgaria, including our Bulgarian citizens investing here their time and future in order to live in a safe country. When, less than 400 km from our shores, an absolutely unprecedented war has been unleashed on Europe since the end of World War II, in such a large-scale conventional operation, we think that somehow we can lower ourselves, that we can avoid imposing sanctions and gain from it, is in the mildest case a great delusion, a great delusion. The imposition and the requirement to impose adequate sanctions, to be part of the consolidated position of those blocks, of which we have freely chosen to be a part of NATO and the European Union, guarantees freedom in Bulgaria, guarantees its security. That is why I would like to make an editorial amendment to this point. 2 of the text of the declaration, where it currently writes, is supporting its partners and allies in the EU and NATO in discussing a package of measures, including sanctions, in order to de-escalate the conflict. My proposal is that the EU and NATO support us because we do not support our partners, we are the EU and NATO and, in this sense, that part, the partners and the allies, please drop out, as far as we are the European Union and NATO, and are not any different entities from us. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u267	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Could you give me the editorials you've proposed? Thank you. The proposal is that in the second ballet the words "partners and allies" will be dropped. For a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u268	To you, Mr. Ivanov. When said so, it comes out if it is only supporting the EU and NATO, as if we are not members of the EU and NATO, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u269	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Is there a second line to Hristo Ivanov? Borislav Antonov. For a statement are Ekaterina Zaharieva and Daniel Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Ivanov, I believe that in fact the partners are the EU and perhaps Ukraine and the allies rather NATO. So I don't know what the best wording would be, but in that sense, editing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u271	Thank you. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u272	Okay, now that there's different understandings, I'm withdrawing my offer. Please vote in full as proposed. [[Applause from the DPS and We are continuing the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u273	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The editorial proposal has been withdrawn. Mr. Chenchev for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u274	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u275	Okay. Abort at the request of a group of 30 minutes. Ekaterina Mihaylova and Daniel Mitov are recorded for speech. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u276	Colleagues, I'm going to resume the hearing. For a statement about recorded Catherine Mihaylova and Daniel Mitov. Here you go, Mr. Ganev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u277	Mr. Chairman, these Rules have begun to become, exactly the word is precedent, not to be respected and violated. A draft declaration was read, debates were opened, there were short debates, and then the President of the National Assembly turned twice to ask if there were others willing to speak. No one was willing and he announced that the debate was closed, after which he became Mr. Ivanov and asked for the floor. After a brief internal debate between him and the President, a compromise was made for him. My question right now is: we're going to run over the Rules again, we're going to cross off the fact that there was a closing of the debates and we're going to find them again or how we're going to proceed in general order to know because yesterday we were attending a break in the debates, making a decision, and we stopped commenting on everything. Right now we have another direction. These Rules, I propose, if we trample it now, that we know that we have no Rules and that we act on the wishes of the rulers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u278	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. One note that these compromises have also been made to your parliamentary group. Then you didn't express any discontent. Mrs. Zaharieva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u279	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wish I could make my speech, since the leaders or at least all the leaders of the parliamentary groups who represent the government are here, but I will do it now. Honourable Members, in fact, this declaration, which was read from Parliament's stand by the Chairman of the Group, is a declaration that we have all worked on for several hours. Yes, no unanimous agreement was reached by all. The aim of this declaration, in my opinion and in our opinion, is not only to express a political position of the Bulgarian Parliament, but, and I address here mainly the government, who are still hesitant to support it in this form, but also to assist the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian prime minister who will go to Brussels tonight and will also go to the emergency meeting, which will be convened in NATO. Bulgaria, together with the other countries, has already requested the activation of art. 4 of the Washington Treaty. And who will pay the price of these sanctions? We will all pay them and hardly anyone else in this room thinks otherwise, but this is the only way to stop or limit what is happening right now, because the worst losses are losses in human lives. Currently there are more than 40 civilian casualties in Ukraine and at least one child. And these losses cannot be recovered, they are final. So the purpose of this declaration is really the Bulgarian Parliament, we hoped and tried to be united, but at least a large part of it, I hope at least 6 of the parties and the movements presented in it to try to show that they stand together with the democratic world and I do not only say NATO and the EU, because the democratic world is a broader concept in its attempts to stop and prevent this war. And the only peaceful way to do that is by limiting the financial flows to those who caused this war, which led this war absolutely unprovoked. So I really hope that the debates will not be that long and that we will be able to vote on the proposed declaration as soon as possible before 16.00. It could probably be a better text, but it was something we were working on, and I think we agreed on it. And I hope that no more changes are proposed purely editorial, because this could drag the debate to infinity and really let us proceed as quickly as possible to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Replies to Mrs. Zaharieva's statement? I can't see. Come in for a statement, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to be as brief as possible, honourable Members, in order to move on to a vote on the declaration, which is the right thing to do at this point. Just two words. As we have already mentioned, the big question is why we are voting on a declaration at the moment and why this is so urgent. I'm not gonna stop at the war or anything. That's clear. We must give a mandate to the Bulgarian government, it must be clear that the Bulgarian government is supported by the Bulgarian Parliament in its efforts to take relevant positions, this first. Secondly, on the question of why sanctions are imposed, as this issue has also been raised. If there is a legal order, it would be national, whether it is international, this legal order requires all participants in it to comply with the rules under which they have signed. If the right order is violated, sanctions are imposed. It's the normal logic of a similar process. Third, for whom are the consequences? The consequences of imposing sanctions are mostly for the Russian Federation, but we all pay a price. This price is paid from around the world, and when we talk about the price of the Russian Federation invading Ukraine and causing war, it has already raised the prices of energy carriers. The whole world's gonna pay for this rude violation of international law. Finally, the talk of the type of give us here not to support sanctions, while others to pay the price fully enters into the logic of Russian propaganda and fully enters into the logic of those who claimed in the early 1990s that when we globalize the world markets, they will be some kind of bearer of values and they will slowly put these values down roots in authoritarian regimes. That didn't really work out. It's the exact opposite. The globalised market has given resources, it has given resources to the authoritarian regimes, which resources have allowed them to catch, to tighten even more firmly the grip on the freedom of their own population and to start challenging democracies. So that's why sanctions are needed at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u282	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Are there any lines to Daniel Mitov? The Prime Minister has asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u283	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to make it clear from this platform that the Bulgarian government strongly condemns the actions of the Russian Federation. These acts of aggression cannot be impunity in Europe at this time because they are completely violating international law. Currently there are real victims in Ukraine and the aggressions they have made show that this is not a partial conflict. It is a comprehensive conflict and the Bulgarian government takes a very clear position that this is an impossible aspect to happen in Europe and we will speak with one voice to the European Union and with one voice to our NATO allies. At this point, I would like to inform you that I will be flying to Brussels at 20:00 this evening. I will meet with all the European leaders and we will come up with a joint declaration because the unity makes the force true both in Bulgaria and in our European family. From this point of view, I would like to call on you from this tribune to come up with a clear statement, because at a time like this it shows whether we are taking a leadership position and leading the most correct and most honest behavior as governors, or we are taking partial positions that still do not show Bulgaria's clear position. On the other hand, I would like to say that the deescalation of this conflict remains a priority for Bulgaria. I would also like to say that we will be very careful about the economic risks of this conflict. I want to reassure the Bulgarian citizens who are currently watching that there is no direct risk at this time of any kind of military conflict in Bulgaria. The Bulgarian government currently has over ten working groups to assess the risks in each of the spheres and to make sure that we have the most adequate actions at this time. I would like to call on the National Assembly and all MPs to join forces, to show a common Bulgarian position and to show our partners from the European Union and NATO that from now on Bulgaria will speak in one voice in these two families. I thank you all and expect the joint declaration to come out of the National Assembly. And I will personally travel to Brussels to work together with our European partners for a common family European position. Thank you. [[(Applause from.. We continue Change......................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u284	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Tsoncho Ganev for a line to Daniel Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u285	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Mitov, it is extremely easy from this tribune in this room everyone who we are here today, well provided financially, to say that it is very important and very nice to support Euro-Atlantic values and Euro-Atlantic partners. And that sanctions should be imposed on the Bulgarian foreign minister almost initiated this thing on the part of Bulgaria. I want to tell you that business is in a miserable state and what we observe in energy is the result of such policies, which are conducted for 30 years, and it is cynical at the moment to talk about everything else, but to explain how the economic consequences of imposing severe sanctions against the Russian Federation is something secondary to Bulgaria and every Bulgarian. We are very strongly against Bulgaria being the initiator of any of this and participating in any sanctions against the Russian Federation. More than that. In the European Union, there are countries that have declared exactly the same. More than that. Hungary, just a few days ago, the former prime minister travelled to Russia and concluded a 15-year gas supply contract and said they would not participate in such sanctions and such actions. Whether this will be fulfilled, I have no idea and I do not care what Ukraine does. I give it as an example and as information that has been commented long and wide in all media. So it is not normal at least five or six, I no longer know what position the BSP will take, but it is not normal for everyone else to accept that it is only natural to impose sanctions and we to participate in these sanctions, both Bulgarian business and our people to suffer from it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u286	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u287	Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to make it very clear to you so that we do not mislead anyone that the European Union has various possible sanctions that it will propose, but there is no option that there will be no sanctions at this time. What they say is how heavy they are. The other thing I want to tell you clearly is not a conflict that has emerged today and will disappear tomorrow. It's a conflict that, unfortunately, for all of us, will last a long time. The scale of this conflict unfolds and is absolutely comprehensive in Ukraine. Let us not forget that these are not just Ukraine and the Ukrainians. We have a Bulgarian minority there and are currently shooting at Ukraine where we have Bulgarians. We are currently making an organization for the transport of Bulgarian citizens from Ukraine. If at this moment when we are shooting at a Bulgarian minority, when we have Bulgarian citizens in a country in Europe and some foreign state is currently shooting at it from everywhere, and we are trying to talk about some political games, who will support how?! [[(Applause from.. We continue Change......................................................................................]] We're either leaders here, or just some of you, in my opinion, have no place in these places. Thank you. [[(Applause from.. We continue Change......................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u288	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Second line to Daniel Mitov? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ganev, just one word. Do you know what cynicism is? Cynism is when people die when military action is taking place and you talk to me about business from this tribune. Thank you. [[Applause from.. We continue the Change, ISN and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u290	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. By procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Understanding the importance of the Bulgarian Parliament to have a declaration adopted and understanding the importance of this maximum number of points or bellets from the declaration to be supported, I am making a procedural proposal, Mr President, the declaration to vote separately, the Preamble and each item separately. In this way, honourable Members, I think we will find the points that unite us, and respectively the Bulgarian Parliament will rule on the declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u292	Mr. Svilensky, the preamble is complete, and from the operative points, I understand. This is Georgi Svilensky's proposal. Okay, we're done discussing... In return, Mustafa Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u293	Vote in full!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u294	Okay, that's Mustafa Karadaye's opposite opinion. I put to the vote Georgi Svilenski's procedural proposal. I will repeat it again, and it is: the preamble from the declaration to the declaration to the declaration to be voted in whole and then the individual points in the operative part separately. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u296	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u298	Thank you. Vote 217 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online.. 219 total: 121 in the Chamber and 2 online.. 123 total, against 77, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. We continue with the vote on the declaration itself. First of all, according to the proposed procedural proposal, I am putting the vote to the vote... Okay, we're redeploying the procedural proposal. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u300	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u302	Thank you. Vote 226 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online "2" total 228: 124 in the Chamber and 2 online " 126" total, against 87, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text declaration: The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria... All five points in total and the text declares this part in full. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u304	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u306	Thank you. They voted 225 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online.. 227 total: 212 in the Chamber and 2 online.. 214 total, against 12, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're going to vote on the first point, and I'm going to read them so there won't be any confusion: "1." He strongly condemns the rude violation of international law by the Russian Federation and the violation of territorial integrity through military intervention against Ukraine. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u308	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u310	Thank you. Vote 225 Members of Parliament in the Chamber and 2 online " 227" total: 211 in the Chamber and 2 online " 213" total, no objection, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point, which is: "2." Supports its partners and allies in the European Union and NATO in discussing a package of measures, including sanctions to de-escalate the conflict. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u312	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u314	Thank you. They voted 225 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 227" in total: 189 in the Chamber and 1 online " 190" in total, against 14, abstention 22 and one online. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point. [[(National Representative Desislava Atanasova:]] Is that necessary, colleagues? [[(Comments from GERB-SDS: "Yes!" Yes!]] Okay, I'll give it to you. Please, voting mode. [[(National Representative Desislava Atanasova, next to the stands:]] No, it's okay. We're already in voting mode, Mrs. Atanasova! Please! We're in voting mode! We're going to reschedule the second point. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u316	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u318	Thank you. Vote Members of Parliament: 225 in the Chamber plus 2 online " 227," for 191 in the Chamber plus 1 online............................ 21................................................................... The motion is accepted. Moving on to the third point: "3." Supports the Bulgarian government to take the necessary measures, corresponding to the seriousness of the challenges to international security architecture. Voting mode. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u320	Tsvetelina Simeonova-Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u322	Thank you. Vote Members of Parliament: 225 in the Chamber plus 2 online " 227," 225 in the Chamber plus 2 online " 227," no objection and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next part of the operative: "4." Supports the Bulgarian government to consider and offer assistance to Ukraine corresponding to the opportunities of the Bulgarian state. Voting mode. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u324	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u326	Vote Members of Parliament: 226 in the Chamber plus 2 online.. 228, 226 in the Chamber plus 2 online.. 228, no objection and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next fifth point of the operative: It's five o'clock. Supports the Bulgarian government to insist that the protection of the life and health of civilians from the region be an absolute priority. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u328	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u330	Thank you. Vote Members of Parliament: 226 in the Chamber plus 2 online.. 228, 226 in the Chamber plus 2 online.. 228, no objection and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next sixth point of the operative: It's six. Supports the Bulgarian government to assist in obtaining immediate assistance to the Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarians living in Ukraine with Ukrainian citizenship, including, if necessary, evacuation. Please, voting mode. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u332	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u334	Thank you. Vote Members of Parliament: 224 in the Chamber plus 2 online " 226," for 224 in the Chamber plus 2 online " 228," against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point, which is: "7." He expects the Bulgarian government to propose and present a plan to deal with the consequences of the military actions. Please, voting mode. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u336	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u338	Thank you. Vote MPs: 223 in the Chamber plus 2 online The motion is accepted. And the last point is: He insisted that the Russian Federation immediately cease the military action and return to compliance with international law in full. Voting mode. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u340	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u342	Thank you. Vote MPs: 221 in the Chamber plus 2 online And this dot of the operative is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, I would just like to point out to you that in the deposited draft declaration there is a text which I did not read to you, which was not respectively in the distributed ones, and it is between the "Declaration" and the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. And so is our item on the agenda. I am voting to supplement the title of the declaration, as I have not read it before, for which I apologise. Voting mode. Atanas Zafirov? And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u344	Vote MPs: 204 in the Chamber plus 1 online.. 205, 190 in the Chamber plus 1 online.. 191, against 13, abstention 1. The proposal has been accepted, and with this the whole text has been adopted. I'll read it to you the way we took it point by point: DECLARATION in connection with the aggressive military actions of the Russian Federation against Ukraine National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, Having regard to the Charter of the United Nations, by stepping on the results of the Helsinki Process and the Final Act of the Conference of 1 August 1975 and related subsequent OSCE documents, Taking into account the arrangements reached at the Minsk Memorandum of 19 September 2014 and the implementing measures package for Minsk Agreements adopted and signed on 12 February 2015, recalling the texts of the Budapest Memorandum on Safety Guarantees relating to Ukraine's accession to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty of 5 December 1994, Remaining in consistent positions supporting the sovereignty, territorial integrity and democratic development of Ukraine DECLARES: Responsible for the repression of the Russian Federation against the territorial integrity by means of military intervention against Ukraine. Supports its partners and allies in the EU and NATO in discussing a package of measures, including sanctions, in order to de-escalate the conflict. Supports the Bulgarian government to take the necessary measures, corresponding to the seriousness of the challenges to international security architecture. Supports the Bulgarian government to consider and offer assistance to Ukraine corresponding to the opportunities of the Bulgarian state. Supports the Bulgarian government to insist that the protection of the life and health of civilians from the region be an absolute priority. Supports the Bulgarian government to assist in obtaining immediate assistance to the Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarians living in Ukraine with Ukrainian citizenship, including, if necessary, evacuation. He expects the Bulgarian government to propose and present a plan to deal with the consequences of military action. Insists that the Russian Federation should immediately cease its military activities and return to compliance with international law in full. That's it, thank you. [[Applause. Everyone in the room is up. Long applause.]] Dear Members of Parliament, until 4:00 p.m., when the hearing is about to begin, we have little time. In other cases, I'd give it a rest, but we've given it maybe enough. So I resume the budget debate, and at 4:00 p.m., we're going to cut it off again and move on to the point that we agreed to look at at at this hour. The discussion on the budget is on the texts of art. 4 to Art. 10 of them included. Desislava Taneva, Ekaterina Zaharieva and Georgi Stankov spoke so far. Are there any other statements on the texts of art. 4 to Art. Ten of them? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. Dear colleagues, the first proposal I put to the vote is by the MP Plamen Abrovski under art. 6 with an entry number ending 24, p. 59 of the report, which is not supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. Please, voting mode. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u345	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u346	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u347	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u348	Thank you. Vote Members of Parliament: 223 in the Chamber plus 2 online "200," for 74 in the Chamber plus 2 online " 76," against 115 plus 2 online " 117," abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet. The next proposal we are putting to the vote is to the MP Dessislava Taneva and a group of MPs under art. 6. and the input number ends at 45, which is on page 60 of the Commission report and is not supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. Voting mode. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u349	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u350	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u351	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u352	Vote 204 MPs in the House, plus 2 online " 206" total: for 85, against 112, plus 2 online " 114" total, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, the entry number ends at 115, again on page 60, also not supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. Voting mode. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u353	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u354	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u355	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u356	They voted 200 MPs in the House plus 2 online " 202" total: 66, against 116, plus 2 online " 118" total, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is of the MP Daniel Petrov and a group of MPs, again under art. 6, the entry number ends at 126, on page 61 of the report is not supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u357	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u358	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u359	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u360	They voted 188 MPs in the House plus 2 online. 190 total: 58 against 110 plus 2 online. 112 total, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is under art. 9 on page 65 of the Commission report. The proposal is from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs, the entry number ends at 45, not supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u361	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u362	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u363	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u364	Vote 181 MPs in the House plus 2 online.. total 183: for 64, against 111 plus 2 online.. total 113, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. With this, we have exhausted the unsupported proposals and are now moving on to the main texts. I shall put to the vote art. 4 by importer, supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance, art. 5 is also an importer and is supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance, art. Six... [[(Reply from DPS: "Let's vote separately art. 5.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u365	Excuse me, Mr. Chorbanov? Okay. Vote art. 5 by importer supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u367	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u369	They voted 164 MPs in the House plus 2 online " 166" total: 142 in the Chamber, plus 2 online " 144" total, against 22 abstentions. The motion is accepted. The other texts that we are going to vote on, I point them out carefully again, are: art. 4 is an importer supported by the Commission; art. 6 is an importer supported by the Commission; art. 7 is an importer supported by the Commission; art. 8 is an importer supported by the Commission; art. 9 is an importer supported by the Commission; and art. 10 is edited by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Voting mode. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u371	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u373	They voted 165 MPs in the House plus 2 online " 167" total: 121 in the House plus 2 online "123," against 43, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Karimansky, we have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u374	Under art. 11 has a proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev, No 47-254-04-40: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11, para. 1, row The amount of the total amount of the aid referred to in point (a) of Article 1 (1) and Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the amount of the aid In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1. "Current expenditures" "The sum" "1 588 392,4" is replaced by "1 665 392,4". In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1. 1. The amount of the total amount of the financial contributions from the EFTA States to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2015 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11. Under art. 12 has a proposal of the MPs Hristo Terziyski and Mladen Marinov, No 47-254-04-65: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in row II the cost of the number (b) in row 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (c) of row 1.1. The number of the number of the Member States of the European Union is replaced by the number of the Member States of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as the "EU') and the (d) in row III, the budget relationship (transfers) is replaced by the number..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (e) of row 1 "Budget' with the central budget (+/-) The increase under art. 12 with the sum 406 000,0 is allocated to the policies in para. 2 with the corresponding increase in staff costs. The same change to reflect in art. 12, para. 3 where the maximum amounts of the expenditure commitments that may be made in 2022 are validated and the maximum amounts of the new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2022 by the Ministry of Interior. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Petar Petrov and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-105: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1, item II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 75000. 1. 1. The figure is changed to 1 815 981.0 is changed to 1 997 579.1. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12. Under art. 13 has a proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-107: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1, II "Costs', p. 1.1. ==References====External links===*"Personal*"Personal*"Personal*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary*"Primary" The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14. Under art. 15 has a proposal of the MP Kostadin Angelov and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-85: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: 1.1. Line II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. 1.2 in line 1. The number of the current expenditures is to be increased by 40 500,0 by the number of the current expenditures and replaced by 829 045.0. 1.3 in row 1.1. ====Personals======================================================================External links========================================================================================================*==================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================== 1.4. Line 1.2. "Subsidys and other current transfers" "The number" "255 131."3 "to be increased by 33 000" by replacing it with "288 131.0" 1.5 in line 1.2.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 1.6. Line III. "Budget relationships - transfers (+/-) " to increase by 16 500,0 by replacing it with "835 877,3 "; 1.7. Line one. "Budget' with the central budget (+/-) "The number of the budget has to be increased by 16 500,0 by replacing it with "939 297,9'. 1.8. Row two. "Budget relations with other budgetary organisations" (+/-) "the number" -103 420, 6 "to be increased by 16 500,0" by replacing it with 1.9. Row 2.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. For the National Health Insurance Fund, the number of the national Health Insurance Fund is to be increased by 16 500,0 by replacing it with the number of the national Health Insurance Fund. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u375	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky, for introducing members from 11 to 15. I won't open the discussion now, since it's 15.59. There are already written for a statement specifically for art. 15. In one minute, I suggest we move on to the hearing of the people we voted on earlier. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. In connection with the forthcoming hearing, first of all, I put to the vote the hall of: Plamen Tonchev, Chairman of the National Security Agency, Antoine Gechev, Chairman of the DAR, General Venelin Venev, Director of the Military Intelligence Service, and Admiral Eftimov, Head of Defence. Please vote regime. Vote 166 MPs: 166, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the Chamber. Honourable Members, given the subject of the hearing and the opportunity to obtain as much detailed information as possible, I propose that the meeting be closed in this part of the meeting as long as the hearing of those persons lasts. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Vote 186 MPs: for 186, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. In view of the proposed proposal, I request that the outsiders leave the Chamber and that direct television and social networks be cancelled. I am giving five minutes off where I ask the MPs to leave their mobile phones, notebooks and other communication devices. [[After the closed session.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u376	Colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. We're moving on to the debate on art. The 11 and 15 that Mr. Karimansky read. For a statement I have a long list of colleagues from the group of GERB-SDS. Valerie Lachowski? Mrs. Sacheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u377	It wasn't supposed to be like this because I'm in 14 articles and before me other colleagues, but it doesn't matter. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I take the floor in relation to art. 14, as there is the budget proposed for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. It is a little difficult to talk after everything that happened today, because we have constantly talked about this budget having different problems with regard to its planning and I think that after everything we have heard in the last few hours, even the most unbiased already know that this budget is not up to date and that it should certainly contain much more expenditure related to the current situation. But the proposed budget has been called several times a social budget by the government, probably because it is set by 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. more costs, however, and the higher percentage of these funds goes to pensions. At the same time, however, as a percentage of gross domestic product, expenditure on social policy is reduced from 15.2% to 14.2%. This, of course, is not the only reason why we do not consider this budget to be social. A significant problem of this budget is the fact that a serious part of the revenue is expected to be received under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, as well as from loans. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, a commitment has been made to a large-scale reform of social assistance and adoption of a code of social protection. At this stage, it is not clear how synergies will be ensured between the commitments made in the coalition agreement and those made in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and those in the 2022 budget respectively. It is also not clear how, if a plan is not approved, if we intend not to keep our commitments on it right now, what exactly are we hoping for, what kind of means on it we hope for. It is likely that there is an answer that there are 6.6 million planned. lv. for a smooth change in the period from 2022 to 2024, by adjusting the individual percentages that set the access limits and the amount of social aid to the most vulnerable groups, but 6.6 million. lv. for three years, agree that it is completely insufficient and too palatative to be perceived as a serious and decisive change and reform of social assistance in Bulgaria. More than that. A real social budget should aim not only at giving money but at reducing inequalities. With this budget, that will definitely not happen. According to the Institute for Market Economics, only 2% of the social budget will go to support people who are in extreme poverty. Social assistance funds will bring about 1.9 billion, but over 60% of all costs are directed to people with disabilities, with programmes with a wide scope and without income criteria. More than 18% are the so-called monthly supplements for children with a lucrative test program, but with a range of about half the children in Bulgaria at a small amount of aid. A little below 10% is the target aid for heating, and it is in a country with the highest energy poverty in the European Union. The planned 90 million. lv. to increase family support for children can hardly prove their effectiveness because with 10, 20, 30 BGN. For 1, 2, 3 and more children, respectively, families will hardly feel substantial support. However, it is positive that the tax relief for the working parents introduced by the last GERB government is maintained, thus all Bulgarian children will still receive support from the state. It is impressive, however, that no funds are bet on one of the most successful measures financed through the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" "This measure, which applies to babysitters and which is known as "Parents in employment." This measure has a direct impact on the labour market, on the one hand, insofar as it enables parents to return there and, on the other hand, employs people without work, but with adequate qualifications to care for children. It would have been useful to put funds in the state budget for this measure, since it is very clear that soon European funds would not come into our country not only under the Recovery Plan, but also under the operational programmes. Also, in a spirit of correctness, I would like to point out that it is positive that assistance for eighth graders is maintained, which has also been introduced by our government and this assistance, as well as aid for the first grade, remain without an income test. This is a step in the right direction, given that the largest percentage of dropouts from the educational system is after 7th grade. [[The President signals that speaking time has expired.]] 8th grade aid has a direct effect on both social and educational policy. Last I would just like to comment that the funds for the National Employment Action Plan remain unchanged, and as I have already commented in previous speeches, 110 million. bet on the measure Instead, adequate liquidity support could be given to the business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u378	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Mr. Lachowski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u379	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll take the floor by art. 15 to justify the proposal of GERB-SDS to amend and supplement the State Budget Act to increase the spending of the budget of the Ministry of Health, and we offer 30 million for additional subsidies for medical institutions in hardly accessible and remote areas. Dear colleagues, these are the municipal hospitals. We all know how important the role of municipal hospitals in Bulgarian healthcare is, namely that thanks to them a large part of the country's population in small municipalities have the possibility of quick access to hospital treatment. Currently, municipal healthcare is experiencing serious difficulties due to the increase in its costs of electricity, gas, oxygen, supplies, medicines. Growing inflation, which currently, according to data, is 9%, with what is happening around us, it will certainly reach quite serious levels, and I think it is by these means that we will be able to support municipal healthcare. We have all seen how the NHIF, with its decision, has further created a difficulty in municipal medical institutions because in the months of December and January, municipal hospitals did not receive 100% of their limits but received 85%. At the Health Commission last week, we discussed it with colleagues, but we never got an adequate answer why this decision was made? Exactly in the months when we had the most horse diseased, the medical institutions failed to earn their money when the electricity bills were extremely high, but in the end, the solution is a fact. By Decree No 3 of the Ministry of Health, in which we propose to put these funds, precisely with this regulation, honourable colleagues, the previous government gave the opportunity and helped municipal hospitals and by this decision we managed to save them most of them from bankruptcy. These funds are extremely important for exiting the crisis and rising inflation that we are currently in. Thanks to them, municipal hospitals will be able to withstand galloping prices of electricity and goods. Medical specialists in these medical facilities are on line one, honourable colleagues. And the hospitals themselves are currently experiencing a serious shortage of funding under the NHIF. On the other hand, the pandemic has put serious challenges ahead of them, requiring additional resources. This is risky for the work of hospitals and puts the lives and health of the population of the respective municipalities at risk. Therefore, we at GERB-SDS propose raising funds to the Ministry of Health for remote areas, to increase by 30 million, through which we will show commitment to these medical institutions and will help to remain a stable pillar in Bulgarian healthcare. Since, honourable Members, on the day before, one of our colleagues from the Political Party (Coalition for Bulgaria) mentioned municipal hospitals in the Northwest and their condition, I very much hope that we will receive support for our proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u380	Thank you, Mr. Lachowski. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Terziysky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u381	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 in relation to Art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, with the colleagues of our parliamentary group, we submit the following version of our proposal, as it has undergone the change in art. 1. And that is why we propose the following editorial amendment. [[Applys the President with the amendment made.]] In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in row II, the value of the expenditure, the number of the total amount of the expenditure to be recovered shall be replaced by the amount of the expenditure referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph (b) in row 1. Ongoing costs. The number.....2 030 395,0.. is replaced by..2 302 795,0.. (c) of row 1.1. ==References====External links==*Personals========References======External links==*Personals===========External links===*Personals==============References=========External On line III, the number of the budget relationships (transfers) is replaced by the number In row 1 the reference budget budget budget is replaced by 2 145 580.0. The increase under art. 12 with the sum of 272 400,0 is allocated to the policies in para. 2 with the corresponding increase in staff costs. The same change to reflect in art. 12, para. 3 where the maximum amounts of the expenditure commitments that may be committed in 2022 are validated and the maximum amounts of the new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2022 by the Ministry of Interior. This, honourable Members, is our proposal from the GERB-SDS parliamentary group to increase staff costs for budget 2022 in the Ministry of Interior, once again using the opportunity to call, including colleagues on the left, and to remind that in the forty-fourth National Assembly it was from them that the proposal for budget 2021 came to increase staff costs by 30% for the employees of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u382	Mr. Terziysky, just a moment, because t. 2, as you pointed it out the increase under art. 12 of the sum of 272 thousand. £400. is shared by policy of para. 2 with the corresponding increase in costs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u383	By staff.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u384	How exactly are they distributed? Because there is no continuity between the amendments that you mentioned earlier as text.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u385	Yesterday on art. 1 Editorial proposals were made by colleague Mladen Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u386	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u387	To be rejected, but we are now making a proposal under art. 12
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u388	The sum of 400... as can be distributed by para. Two? How to distribute in which row. 1, 2, 3 or 4?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u389	What order are you asking me for?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u390	Point 2 of your proposal is...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u391	The increase under art. The amount of 282 400,0 shall be allocated to the policies in para. 2 with the corresponding increase in staff costs. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 policies include policies to combat crime and to protect the state border and fire protection. These are the policies of the Ministry.. the corresponding 15% increase in the respective policies.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u392	Okay, Mr. Terziysky. I think I understand what you're saying. Is there a line to that statement? I can't see. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u393	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, our proposal from the parliamentary group of GERB Ms. Atanasova and a group of MPs is in art. 13 in the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 we offer an increase in the basic monthly remuneration of the employees in the Directorate General "Execution of Punishments" and the Chief Directorate of Security in the Ministry of Justice, and our idea is to ensure the economic and social stability of the employees. You know, letters have been received from both associations and from the General Directorate of Punishment and from the Chief Directorate of Security to the Ministry of Justice, asking them to meet with the Minister of Justice, to debate, to reach consensus. We believe that in the previous budget of 2020, we have increased by 38% the monthly salaries of employees and we believe that this policy should be maintained during this budgetary year. Specificity in the powers of employees in those structures, which are also included in the national security protection system, require them to be secured by normal monthly remuneration in order to be able to carry out their duties and commitments in a calm manner. In this regard, the ruling majority, both in their election campaign and in the coalition agreement, said they would undertake the release of pensioners in individual ministries, including in this ministry, and they are not very few. In order to take such measures, given that this profession is extremely unattractive, we should help with an increase of 15% in the amount of 30 million. lv. to increase the salaries of these employees, with a view to making it more attractive. Thank you. Please back us up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u394	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any lines to Mrs. Alexandrova's statement? I can't see. Here's your speech, Professor Baltov. After Professor Baltov Dr. Krasimir Sabev, Associate Professor Lachezar Ivanov and Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u395	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the funds allocated to health care are only 4.2% of the gross domestic product. There is talk about the effectiveness of the allocated funds, but they are extremely insufficient and the additional payment in the healthcare system is already over 50%. I will again address the subject of assistance and medical devices for people with disabilities who are directed to the National Health Insurance Fund, namely the transfer of 38 million from the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund. From 1 January 2022, assistance and medical devices for people with disabilities shall be transferred to the National Health Insurance Fund. So far they have been in the portfolio of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The specification of aids, gadgets, facilities and medical devices established by the National Health Insurance Fund is, notice, since 2008, and the specification for the repair of prosthetics is from the 1970s. The lowest value of the aid paid in the last three calendar years has been established in the specification and this is actually the aid paid by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy since 2008. That is, we have nothing innovative and modern to ease and make these people's lives much more active and more workable. Carbon feet, silicone casings, hydraulic microprocessor transmissions, these are high-tech devices that are not included in the specification of these prosthetics. It is imperative to make changes, expand the lists and specifications of aids for people with disabilities, and to set adequate values to which they are to be paid. In recent years, however, the funds allocated by the budget to people with disabilities have not increased smoothly. It is evident that in recent years they are 38 million, including 2022. We have the assurance from the ruling coalition that during the June update it will be considered on this issue and I really appeal then to make a decision, because yesterday, if you have read, there is a publication about a young girl who is raising money for it 10 thousand. BGN to give him a prosthesis of the upper limb. Something you understand that doesn't fit the specification at all. In fact, this is also one of the examples that shows how direct payments will not decrease, on the contrary they will increase further because of the search for hidden compensatory mechanisms to increase the health resource. I mean, I hope this thing really goes down through the budget update in June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u396	Thank you, Professor Baltov. Is there a line to that statement? I can't see. For speech Petar Petrov, to diversify the groups. Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u397	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We made an offer in art. 12 with a desire for more state-related in the sector - Security - namely a request to increase staff costs by 10% - by the sum of 180 million. lv. We did so because we believe that in the state budget for 2022, unfortunately, the government does not hear the calls of the employees in the Ministry of Interior. They do not hear their demands for a better standard of living and for better living conditions, although, when I asked Minister Rashkov a question in early February: will there be an increase in wage money, he said: there is no way, the finance minister will not give, however there will be an increase in material technical security. Then on Sunday, just a few days ago, several thousand people from the Ministry of Interior protested at this entrance across the street. I was there and I talked to them and I was asked to ask the minister the next time I saw him, but I take the opportunity to ask the ruling coalition, as long as there are 800 BGN at stake. to an employee per year for clothing, a jacket costs 500 BGN, whether the minister or one of my colleagues here can explain to me how a new officer can buy a summer uniform, a winter uniform and a parade uniform with this amount of 800 BGN.? I met with some officers in a district directorate and told them that the minister had promised material and technical collateralisation this year, and they said to me: but we have already received it in the form of two new Szcodes, one of which is 50 thousand. km broke an engine and good thing it's the old Astris to take over and patch things up. That's our material-technical collateralization. [[Reply from the DPS block: "Who is the directorate? "]] Lovech, Lovech Directorate. I don't want to talk about it. I asked the chief of police at another district headquarters again on Sunday: what is the salary of the incoming policeman at work? He told me: About £1,200, but you know they are constantly available and the amount is extremely insufficient. This is precisely why we have made this proposal because we believe that the state-owned sector of Security is neglecting itself, and we believe that so far all power has not wanted materially well-insured and stable police to reveal crime and to carry out preventive activities against crime. I spoke to the protesters on Sunday and they told me: explain to these MPs and your colleagues inside that it is necessary for the Ministry of Interior to work illegally second jobs to make ends meet. We explain to them that we are applying to go on a mission abroad along the line of international cooperation only to make some decent money in euros, but we have to look at our children on Skype. And I say to them: well, I will explain to them, but the ruling coalition will not give you a 10% increase. The other day union representatives were in a meeting with Prime Minister Kiril Petkov and he refused to raise their salaries and they called me and asked me: OK, what should we do now? And I said to them: Well, at the Inner Commission at the beginning of the month, the minister said that there are 9 million for a gym, which, of course, will still be in a private company, will not come into your hands at 40 leva. for the gym, well will be distributed to the respective gyms. And they said to me, "But that's not our biggest problem, 'cause we don't have the money to support our kids and our families. This is precisely why, colleagues, I call on you as a ruling coalition to take it a little more seriously, with attention to the sector that provides public order in the country, which in the last two years has made it crazy, where police have dragged them into the RZI, in elections and at the same time have made them fight crime. That is why they have neither good material security nor receive salaries to allow them to lead a normal lifestyle. That's why we proposed our increase, which we think is even less. We see that colleagues from GERB have offered 15%. The police themselves said on Sunday at the protest that 20% was the minimum that would be adequate, but let us have a little more concern about a major sector, because without it the state would become anarchy. If you do not do so, esteemed rulers, I guarantee you that very soon the police will not go to the gym, but will go to early elections. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u398	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to Mr. Petrov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u399	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Petrov! I would rather ask how you comment on the fact that for the Council of Ministers the money has been raised by 100 million and there is nothing for the police? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u400	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Any other lines to Mr. Petrov's statement? I can't see. Do you want a hole, Mr. Petrov? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u401	Colleague Dimitrov, I wonder how to answer this question, because this question is not only you asking it, many others are asking it in the Ministry of Interior system. I apologize, mate. It is also being asked by many others employed in the Ministry of Interior system, who cannot answer not only why these millions are there, not only because 4.5 million are being given to the Commission for the files that we consider absolutely unnecessary expenditure. Because this is the way social policy is being conducted in the sector. Security is being held by the current leaders that, unfortunately, more and more policemen will be leaving this system, only in search of a better paid job, even if they do not want it and not only in Bulgaria, but also abroad. I wouldn't be a bad prophet if I said that there's a massive sense among the population that maybe domestic crime is increasing. And it only increases and only because at the moment the state is not making enough efforts to ensure that police officers do their normal activities. As much as you do not believe it, Bulgaria is not only Sofia, Bulgaria is all the other large and small settlements where crime prevention should take place. There must also be a openness which, unfortunately, without good financial security cannot be achieved. It can't be achieved with just one new car and people are glad that their old cullets are still doing some work to be able to carry out their shifts. In a large district town, which is third in size in Bulgaria, the duty at a district police station can be performed by only two people and one car in 24 hours. This is unacceptable, honourable Members, as much as you do not believe. In order to change this and to ensure that the Bulgarian state will fight and prevent crime, more money should be allocated for salaries to keep qualified valuable personnel in the system and not to go to private companies or abroad. Because, I say again, unfortunately, there are children looking at their phones and video screens so that they can support themselves. It is not good to do this, honourable Members, so I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u402	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. For a statement? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u403	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to a very serious topic. I'm gonna talk about § 15, which concerns the transplant law. I'd ask everyone here who's listening to me right now to grant three million for a transplant. We're talking $3 million. BGN, which will give a chance and opportunity to people who have lost all hope of life. The only thing we're talking about here, if you can hear me right now, is helping save their lives. The transplant law in Bulgaria was adopted in 2004, I purposely focus on this, it has been updated many times and I would like to say that in 1986 Professor Chirkov made the first heart transplant. I say this in memory and with respect to this extraordinary surgeon, who, I pay attention to, has acquired his skills and opportunities in Germany, I purposely focus on this. I'd like to address you from this tribune for the 3 million. lv. and I will read exactly: the people who need kidney transplantation are 865 people; the people who are expecting liver transplantation are 43; the people who are expecting a heart transplant are 41 and the people who are expecting a lung transplant are 20. We are talking about just over 1,000 people who are listening, watching and waiting to get some chance and hope. We're talking $3 million. Here it was said that extracurricular activity was given 100 million, honourable colleagues. 100 million! And I'm addressing you, if you can hear me, let's make this gesture to these people for $3 million. lv. I don't know, you will judge, as they say, you have both the knife and the bread. I would like to say something very important because there is little talking about the people who are waiting for the rescue operation. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the highest achievement in the field of transplantation in Bulgaria was carried out in 2017. Again, I would like to read some figures, namely that the kidney transplants in 2017 are 40, the heart transplants, the heart transplants, the liver transplants, the liver transplants. I'll say two words here, I know there's a colleague who'll understand. The lung transplant in Bulgaria, unfortunately, is something that is a myth. The first liver transplant was performed by Professor Lyubomir Spasov in 2004, when the Law was introduced, and the first lung transplant was also done by Professor Spasov. Why would I say that? Because in 2019, when he made this transplant on 26 October, the Bulgarian state, yes, I know, the Bulgarian state did not prepare a team, did not prepare colleagues to perform this transplant. You'll say, "How many are there?" All people who suffer from pulmonary hypertension sooner or later go to a stage that is precisely a lung transplant. I'm reporting these numbers and a little history to pay attention to raise your heads from your phones and hear that I'm praying for $3 million. lv.! It's not funny, colleague, it's not funny, because tomorrow none of us know if a kidney or something is going to be necessary for a transplant. Then there's the big tragedy not only for the person who's expecting this transplant, but for his family. What are you going to give that money for? It is very important to me to say that this money we will give to the so-called transplant coordinators who are not paid enough... Didn't I hear?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u404	I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u405	...for donor-service teams, for medical facilities equipment, for the purchase of the appropriate equipment and, last but not least, I would also like to say about the training. In 2019 and 2020, the state finally paid attention to the Ministry of Health to send training teams, and it costs money. That's why I'm calling you one last time. Please, colleagues, I know that art. 1 has been accepted a second, but I'm asking you to give that 3 million. BGN so that we can support the development of transplantology in Bulgaria. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Thank you for your attention. I apologize for exceeding the time, but I think the subject I was talking about is extremely important for people who, you might say, have no chance, except for this one we can help. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u406	That's right, Professor Ivanov, I was merely indicating that time is up to you to navigate towards completion...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u407	How many seconds have I exceeded, I apologize? What, 18 seconds? Thank you for your chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u408	Not to stop, Professor Ivanov, but to navigate towards completion, to finish the sentence. Replies to Associate Professor Ivanov? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u409	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Maybe I should say that I have a private interest in this problem because I'm over 43 years old in the kidney transplant team and I have some specifics to understand what this is about. The first kidney transplant in Bulgaria was performed on 6 February 1969. 14 years after the first transplant at the hospital, we were in Paris, meaning we were in time and in our actions extremely up-to-date and accurate. Another clarification was held by Professor Chirkov in 1988, but they were unsuccessful. A child. Usually transplants start with people who have a beating heart in brain death, and then switch to living donors. The liver transplantation started with the participation of foreign specialists and started with a living donor, and the child While a Bulgarian team, fully performed liver transplantation, was carried out at the Alexandrovska Hospital...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u410	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u411	...someone will have to pay for it, because I was the director of the Alexandrov hospital when this transplant took place Professor Dimitrova and a team. The patient was from Sliven, which ended well, and then during the follow-up, there was an excessive concentration of one of the immunosuppressive therapies. I would like to tell you about the transplant in Bulgaria at all. [[the President signals that time has run out]] That there are trained specialists, there are teams, there are no donors. Why aren't there any donors? Because before I say it, I would like to inform you that donation is a process which in Bulgaria has been resolved the legislation has been updated and is fully in line with European legislation. But we don't have an organization or a system to conduct this thing. We wanted nine years ago, and we created...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u412	One minute more!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u413	I'm sorry, thank you. I think it's interesting. But we're not going to solve the donation until there's resistance and until there's a real evaluation by the labor society of the people involved in this activity. You can't sit in the hospital for four days for a donor and for that to say thank you. I apologize for the overdue time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u414	Thank you, Professor Kirilov. Second line? Professor Mikhailov. And third line, Professor Baltov. Prof. Ivanov, I gave more time to Prof. Kirilov because he rarely speaks and is still the oldest MP in the National Assembly. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u415	They're all equal!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u416	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Dr. Ivanov, with all due respect to you as a colleague and the subject you are referring to, I am obliged to remind you that in the Forty-fourth National Assembly at the initiative of the BSP for Bulgaria we held a meeting, we read all these historical facts, we read the catastrophic state of the Bulgarian transplant program. You remember what year that was? You remember what happened after that? I remember, however, as a transplanter because I am a transplanter, I am not a ventriloquist, but I am a hematologist and a transplantist, and you know what my merit is to the development of cell transplantation in Bulgaria. Nothing happened, Professor Ivanov! Nothing happened! Some regulations have been issued. I'm sorry someone might get offended here in this room, but he doesn't have the knowledge, he doesn't have the dynamics, he doesn't have the systematics to deal with it. I tried to talk to him, but there was no response. And now we're standing on the same ponta. With 3 million, Associate Professor Ivanov, I'm telling you this frankly as a colleague, you're an intelligent person, you won't solve the transplant problems! [[Replications from the MPs Lachezar Ivanov and Kostadin Angelov.]] No, Doctor Angelov, please don't! Let's not sell cucumbers to each other. And you and I talked about this last year when Covid started. You know I never allowed myself to talk to you about transplant issues in this difficult environment. You remember that, don't you? Let us be to the memory of those people who die one after another and the list we brought out here of 18 people that nothing happens to but death! And with a few hundred others waiting, you know, for an organ, and how many others waiting for a cell! That won't solve it. We need systemic measures here, we need a lot of things that need to be done. [[the President signals that time has run out]] We really hope that this will happen as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u417	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Professor Baltov for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u418	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! In fact, what we have to say is that there are 3 million allocated in the budget, but they are extremely insufficient, and that is why we want them to become 6 if they do not understand the Members of the Chamber. To have transplants, to have a network of coordinators at all, a structurally new system is needed. There have been training in the last five years, there are trained people who can do this work in all major district hospitals. But these people must somehow be engaged in order to be able to relate to it. Kovid's crisis has really stopped, but once we're out of it, it's the only way to increase transplants. Transplants are made not only of organs. They are made of cells, of bone marrow and of bones. I do bone transplants myself. I think we all need an increase in this budget, which I ask you very much, if you will, to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u419	Thank you, Professor Baltov. Docent Ivanov, come in for the doppelganger. And please, colleagues, don't be mad at me if I signal you the third minute again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u420	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I thank Professor Mihailov, thank you for the lines they have made for me, and I am glad that you have heard me and that you have heard my request. I absolutely agree with Professor Mihailov on what he said, but here, I say again, 3 million, plus 6 million, is a necessary policy, Professor Mihailov My colleagues know very well when there is a situation, these people don't sleep for 48 hours and watch. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, that's right. I hear I'm being replicated here. That's right, mate. And that is why I am pleased that from different parliamentary groups I have received agreement and I hope that this 3 million, because always the budgeters are interested in where it will be taken, I say that this money could be taken, that this 3 million levs will be taken from the extracurricular work, which is 100 million. I think that's where I address the financiers, in fact I have no one else to turn to, I only address you and the Budget Committee, to be taken from this particular feather. Thank you for your attention. Thanks for getting the corresponding lines, which is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u421	Thank you, Professor Ivanov. Professor Kostadin Angelov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u422	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to address you with a similar problem, namely the need to create a new blood centre in the city of Bourgas. This is a problem that has recently gained extremely serious needs for the following reasons. In the active season on the territory of Burgas district outside the local citizens pass over a million visitors. The cases of emergency medical care requiring blood transfusions or the use of blood products are over 10,000. At the same time, hospitals and medical centers in the area are forced to wait for hours, and sometimes for days their necessary blood products meet medical standards. Why? Because the nearest blood center, located near Burgas, is the center in Varna, which is approximately 150 km away, and the next center, which is located on a straight line along the highway is Stara Zagora, which is 170 km away. In fact, Burgas receives blood and blood products from Stara Zagora. On the territory of Bulgaria we have five blood centers - one in Sofia, which is the national one in Plovdiv, one in Stara Zagora, one in Varna, one in Pleven. Dear colleagues, there is no point in talking about the need for blood and blood products. Since today was about war, I would just like to remind you of a bad case of the Bulgarian history of the attack in Sarafovo. Then, when there were many wounded, sick and it was literally a carnage at the airport, doctors, surgeons and resuscitators, including all the doctors from the district who had gone on vacation then, all went to the hospital in Burgas. The need for blood was terrifying. However, the possibilities were minimal, as the distances were very large and it was precisely because of this absence that many lifesaving operations were compromised and impossible to happen. I can get a line on why when I was a minister, I didn't do anything about it. I'll give you an answer. We've done enough. Then even if we had granted these funds, it wouldn't have worked, because only the staff funds wouldn't have solved this problem. The staff are now assigned to the Burgas Hospital. There are enough biologists in Burgas, there are enough doctors who can work. There wasn't a building back then. Now, thanks to the efforts of the mayor of Burgas, such a building was found and that is why we do not want the amount needed for the purchase or construction of a building or for the purchase of equipment that will be the commitment of the municipality of Burgas, and only the provision of 7,5 million for the maintenance of the staff of the blood center of the city of Burgas. That's the first question I've ever wanted to talk to you about. The second question is the remuneration of doctors, nurses and nurses in medical facilities in the country, Master Pharmacists and Assistant Pharmacists. Please once again, now is the time to reconsider your decision. We can increase the budget of the Ministry of Health by 118.5 million. BGN, with which the remuneration of doctors, nurses and nurses who receive through the Health Insurance Fund will be doubled from 600 to 1200 BGN, from 360 to 720 and from 120 to 240 BGN respectively. I want to tell you that the crisis that the Bulgarian healthcare system went through was terrifying. It still is, but we only owe to Bulgarian doctors, Bulgarian nurses, Bulgarian nurses. Because regardless of the decisions in this Chamber, regardless of the orders issued by the Minister of Health, the plans of the government, if the people were not there, Bulgaria would have failed in this kind of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u423	Thank you, Professor Angelov. - What's the line? I can't see. Dr. Krasimir Subev is listed for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Subev. This is the last recorded colleague to speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u424	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! I would like to further develop Professor Angelov's topic about the Center for Transfusional Hematology in Burgas, because hardly anyone who worked in the hospital knows what compromise of surgery, laborers bleeding at night and lack of blood means. I ask those who are in charge of the quadruple coalition to hear these words. These are suffered situations, in 27 years I have seen many such cases. Years ago, a mother died in Devon from blood loss. The psychotrauma of the loved ones, the death of the woman, the psychotrauma of the doctor who was there, the hospital in Smolyan is 50 km from Devin, 50 km in mountain areas is one hour. There is no way 50 km to deliver blood at a difficult time, but what is left for 170 km in the direction of Stara Zagora Burgas. These are great kilometers, these are great distances of time, which is absolutely impossible when it comes to saving a human life at a difficult time. Professor Angelov gave an example of the bombing in Burgas. I am sure that every doctor working in Burgas region has suffered, every doctor who has been on the night shift, every doctor who has had a birth, every doctor who has operated on nights or on Saturdays and Sundays knows what it means to bleed, and at the same time not to have the opportunity to discharge and save another human life. Therefore, my request hear this appeal of the opposition! This is not a whim of about 7,5 million for staff is a small part of this budget that we are currently looking at for 2022. I know that you reject all opposition proposals. I therefore ask you, indeed, as Bulgarians, as MPs to support this 7.5 million and to be able the Burgas Hospital, Burgas District to have a Center for Transfiguration Hematology. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u425	Thank you, Dr. Subev. For a line, Professor Mihailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With the greatest respect for fellow Members who ask these questions, they are very serious. But I want us to go a little lower and go back in time. The questions, I say it as a hematologist, about the problems of transfusion haematology, about the declining donors every year in Bulgaria, about the trade in blood products, Professor Angelov, about the need for new centers, I speak very seriously, BSP put four years. You remember what difficulties the introduction of Nettech was. Bulgaria was left behind by all European countries with the possibility of early diagnosis of transmissible infections. Not to remind you of the difficult case 20 years ago, when the entire biotechnology industry of Bulgaria collapsed because of the infected patients. All of this has been passed over for years by the government of health care. Now we're in the same metamorphosis. With all due respect to the colleague, he said the right things, I can't say that you don't say the right things either, but now all of a sudden, out of neglecting these problems, it's not possible for us to become their callers. It is not possible to ask, by calling this budget at the beginning,.............................................................. and to bring so hundreds of millions here...... here 3, here 20, here 50 and ask them...................... it is not possible to happen. Let's be realistic. The problems you are putting in place are extremely serious, but step by step we need to move towards their increase, not now that we have neglected them as healthcare managers for years, to suddenly become from the people who created this problem to become part of its solution. It's neither correct nor honorable. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u427	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Second line, please, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u428	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Dr. Subev, I thank you for speaking as a doctor from this tribune and for not allowing in any form a political dividend from the medicinal biological product blood. I never imagined that from this tribune of MPs from any political party, he could afford to make a political dividend out of the blood of the Bulgarians. In no way did I imagine that anyone could turn back, Dr. Subev, looking back and not wanting to solve the problems ahead. This is a huge problem for Bulgarian healthcare. So from this tribune, I want to tell you that you said extremely true things, but you forgot to say that the net technology was purchased a few years ago. Thanks to this equipment in Bulgaria, blood transfusion is safe. Thanks to this technology, we have an increase in the number of blood donors. We don't have a problem-free blood donation, we don't have a problem-free organ and cell transplant thing, like the blood transfusion itself. But reading lectures from this tribune absolutely doesn't have to. You set a very clear example, an example from the practice. The theories of this tribune will not help the residents of Burgas region, nor those in need of blood transfusions especially in the summer, when an ambulance must travel from Burgas to Stara Zagora, these are the important moments. And stretching here from this tribune like gum the locums of the parties and their achievements will not help the Bulgarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u429	Thank you, Professor Angelov. Is there a third line to Dr. Subev? Docent Sylvie Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u430	Mr President, honourable Members, we have come back to the truth that everyone is right, but apart from the financial and medical problem, there is another problem that we have been neglecting him perhaps the last 20 years where we can achieve a serious effect on the proper consumption of blood and blood products. This is the autotransfusion that no one had the will to impose and solve this problem, where many quantities would be released from the planning operations so that emergency operations could be covered. As for logistics and distance, it's all a matter of organisation, and we've seen it as young doctors, and we've worked it, and blood has been received from both 50 and more kilometers. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u431	Thank you very much, Mr. Kirilov. And now for the douche bag, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u432	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Professor Mihailov, perhaps you will understand me best and you have understood me about blood transfusions, so I rely on you as a coalition partner to support this idea, to convince your colleagues, there is no substitute for blood, there is no way at three o'clock in the morning a bleeding mother to replace her with something else and the blood bank to be 170 km away about this. Professor Angelov, the last thing I want is to accumulate a political dividend, these things are suffering. Doctors who work in emergency centers and hospitals in which blood transfusions take place know very well what this is about. Mr. Kirilov, yes, perhaps years ago you were doing well. We can give many examples of how we have all been doing. In 1997, during surgery of a liver from an echinococcal cyst in a small municipal hospital, I had to give blood as an anesthesiologist to the patient, while the distance of Rudozem is 23 km away, and in order to save the person. So these are old stories. We can't rely on these technologies. Support this 7.5 million, I think all the doctors will be pleased with our actions. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u433	Hristo Gajev wanted the floor. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u434	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor on my proposal in art. 11, which I've done. We are talking about an increase in the cost of the defence budget, in the case of staff, as I have suggested, so I take the opportunity to withdraw my proposal in the second two points, i.e. the second two lines, namely in point. 1 "Current expenditures" shall be replaced by the amount included in this item. 1.1. The amount is to be replaced, that is to say, to remain only the first line of my proposal. That is, an increase in costs, including current expenditure and capital expenditure by 77 million. If something has become clear today, I think it is the right decision to invest more in our defense. If we haven't learned our lesson from today, we won't learn it anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u435	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Only the first line of your proposal remains, I understand. Any lines to Hristo Gajev? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u436	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will make my speech in connection with demographic policy and those things that are laid down in the budget relating to it. Firstly, we at ARGUING believe that one of the serious problems of our country is precisely the demographic problem. As we can see, statistics show that our country in the last 10 years has decreased by more than one million people, which is an extremely serious problem. A problem that many governments did not pay any attention to. The Bulgarian ethnicity disappears literally from the map of Europe. And in this regard, I want to do, to pay more attention to art. 14, para. 2 in the budget-related policy tables, line 6: "Policies in the field of living, demographic development and social investment'. That's where you set aside $1 million. 132,000. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u437	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u438	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, $1 million. 132,000. lv. How do you plan to restore the demographic balance in the country? How do you plan to fix demographic policy in the country? If you do not know how to do it, contact your Western partners, see how they make demographic policies, consult them, they will give you ideas. I guess you don't have one million. 132,000. lv. You certainly cannot make such policies, and there is no way to restore the balance in the country. This also shows a tab that is provided by the Ministry of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, I will show it here [[shows table]] I don't know which camera can show this tray and see it. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked I'm sorry, but you've made a three-year forecast that shows the same data about children in the country. What's the prognosis? What kind of policy is this? Is that the demographic? And this is your main point in the program, excuse me. Your policy is zero for our country's demographic problem. Zero! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u439	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines for Georgi Georgiev? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion under art. Art. 11 to art. 15. Let's move on to the vote. Honourable Members, take your seats and please be quiet in this Chamber! First of all, we will vote on the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev, No 47-254-04-40. The proposal contains three separate points, the second and third points have been withdrawn, only the first to apply to the amendment in art..11, para.1, II Costs. We are voting on Hristo Gajev's proposal, not supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Atanas Zafirov? Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u440	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u441	Vote in this House 212 MPs and online 1 The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is the MPs Hristo Terziyski and Mladen Marinov, No 47-254-04-65, and the proposal was amended within the discussion. I'll read it in his modified version. 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in row II, the value of the expenditure, the number of the total amount of the expenditure to be recovered shall be replaced by the amount of the expenditure referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph (b) in row 1. Ongoing costs. The number.....2 030 395,0.. is replaced by..2 302 795,0.. (c) of row 1.1. ==References====External links==*Personals========References======External links==*Personals======External links==*Personals======External (d) of row III, (e) of row 1 The increase under art. 12 with the sum 272 400,0 is allocated to the policies in para. 2 with the corresponding increase in staff costs. The same change to reflect in art. 12, para. 3 where the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments can be committed in 2022 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that can be accumulated in 2022 by the Ministry of Interior. This paragraph shall not be amended. We are voting on the proposal of the MPs Hristo Terziyski and Mladen Marinov. The entry number ends at 65, not supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u442	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u443	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u444	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u445	They voted 216 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online.. a total of 218: 87, against 121 in the Chamber and 2 online.. 123, abstentioned 8. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MP Petar Petrov and a group of MPs. The incoming number ends at 105. It's on page 77, guys. The proposal is not supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u446	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u447	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u448	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u449	Vote 208 MPs in the House and 2 online "210" total: 81, against 122 in the House and 2 online " 124" abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The incoming number ends at 107. The proposal is on page 79 of the report, not supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u450	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u451	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u452	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u453	They voted 213 MPs in the House and 2 online. 215 total: for 86, against 123 in the House and 2 online. 125, abstentioned 4. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is of the MP Kostadin Angelov and a group of MPs for amendment in art. The entry number ends at 85. The proposal is on page 84 of the report, not supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u454	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u455	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u456	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u457	They voted 210 MPs in the House and 2 online.. in total 212: for 86, against 115 in the House and 2 online.. 117, abstentioned 9. The offer is not accepted. With this, we have exhausted the proposals for amendment. We are going to vote on the main text. We are voting for members from 11 to 15 including members by importer, supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u459	And Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u461	In total, 216 MPs voted in the Chamber and 2 online members 218: 126 votes for the House and 2 online "128" against 87 abstentions 3. The proposals have been accepted. Mr. Karimansky, come in. [[Noise. MPs from GERB-SDS leave the plenary room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u462	Under art. 16 there is a proposal of the MPs Kostadin Kostadinov and Tsoncho Ganev. [[Noise.]] The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 1, para. 5, t. 1.2 et seq. 11.2.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u463	Colleagues, a little quieter, please! Let's hear it anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u464	Proposal of the MPs Krasimir Valchev and Dessislava Atanasova. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 1, para. 5, t. 1.2. Colleagues of the opposition, here you have accepted your proposal, so if you want to listen to it. [[Noise and lines.]] Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal and I should therefore read it: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments shall be made: 2.1. In para. 1: 2.1.1. in item II 2.1.2. of item II 1 "Current expenditures" "Current expenditures" "Current expenditures" "Current expenditures" "Current expenditures" "Current expenditures" "Current expenditures" "Current expenditures" " 837 947,9 "is replaced by "Current expenditures" "Current expenditures" 2.1.3. of item II This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 1.1. The number of the number "sixteen' is replaced by the number "sixteen'. 2.1.4. of item II This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 1.1. "Personal," p.o.b. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N3, N3, Staff without delegated budgets. The number 2.1.5. in item III "Budget relationships (transfers) - (+/-) 2.1.6. in item III "Budget relationships (transfers) ', p. 1 "Int. III" "Budget" with the central budget "Supreme budget" "1 597 849,1" is replaced by the number "Supplied" 1 602 149,1 "Supplied" is replaced by the number "Supplied" and "Supplied" is replaced by the number "Supreme" is replaced by the number "Supreme." 2.2. In para. The following amendments shall be made: 2.2.1. c. 1 "Policy in the field of comprehensive, accessible and quality pre-school and school education. Lifelong learning. 2.2.2. t. 2 "Politicals in the field of equal access to quality higher education and the development of scientific potential' is replaced by 2.2.3. c. 3 "Budget program" "Dimitry" is replaced by "Dimitry" 7 732,9 "Dimitry" is replaced by "Dimitry" is replaced by "Dimitry" and "Dimitry" is replaced by "Dimitry" is replaced by "Dimitry" and "Dimitry" is replaced by "Dimitry" is replaced by "Dimitry" and 2.2.4. in line 2.3. In para. 3 the following amendments shall be made: 2.3.1..................................................................................... 1 The maximum amount of the commitments for expenditure that can be made in 2022 shall be replaced by 2.3.2. ............................................... 2 - Maximum amount of the new cost obligations that can be accumulated in 2022 - the number..371, 193,7................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The proposal, as you understand, is not supported. Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski and a group of MPs ending 135. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) Adopt the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science for 2022 as follows: (According to the table in the Report.) (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 under policy areas and budgetary programmes as follows: (According to the table in the Report.) (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2022 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2022 by the Ministry of Education and Science, as follows: (According to the table in the Report.) (4) Determine transfers from the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and to the State Higher Schools as follows: (According to the table in the Report.) (5) In the transfer under para. 4 t. 15 are included funds of 355,1 thousand. lv. to ensure the activity of the Research and Exam Laboratory in Sports at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. (6) Funds of 43 580.1 thousand BGN, read in the transfers under para. 4 of the budgets of the state universities as part of the subsidy for maintenance of the training, above the one formed under art. 91, para 1, t. 1 of the Law on Higher Education shall be used to ensure the amount of salary achieved for the lowest academic position determined under the conditions of art. 92, para. 1 of the Law on Higher Education, as well as other positions of the academic staff in state universities. (7) In the designated transfers under para. 4 for state universities under art. 91 of the Law on Higher Education for State Higher Schools, additional expenses for scholarships for students were estimated, amounting to 5,500,0 thousand. BGN with effect from 1 January 2022 Under art. 17 has a proposal of the MP Elena Guncheva and a group of MPs: Art. Seventeenth para. 1 is amended as follows: - in the table under art. 1 Section I. Revenues and transfers - Everything, 1. Point 1.2.2. the number instead of 2. In paragraph 1.2.2.3. Union of the People's Chitalishtes, the number In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 in the table under para. The following amendments shall be made: 1. point I "The policy in the field of preservation of movable and immovable cultural heritage, the number 2. In the table in the column "Everything', the number "..344 491,8................................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Kostadin Kostadinov and Tsoncho Ganev graduated, number 39: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by 5.1 "III." Budgetary relationships (transfers) 5.2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 "Budgets' with the central budget. The number "307 891.8' is replaced by "337 891.8'. 5.3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Seventeenth para. 2 t. 1 "Politicals in the field of the protection of movable and immovable cultural heritage' the number 5.4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Seventeenth para. 2 "All' is replaced by "344 491,8' by "374 491,8'. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs ending with number 115: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17 is created a new para. 4 containing the following content: The funding standard for the Chitalishtes is increased by an additional 10% above those provided for in the budget and the necessary funds are at the expense of the central budget. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Tsveta Galunova and a group of MPs, ending with number 119. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Tsveta Galunova and a group of MPs, ending with number 120. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is In Al. 1 in II. Expenditure, 1. Operating costs, the number?286 575,2? is replaced by?291 875,2? In para. 2: 1. A policy in the field of preservation of movable and immovable cultural heritage, the number In the column "Everything', the number " ".344 491,8' is replaced by "..349 791,8'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17. Under art. 18 has a proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 18 the following amendments shall be made: ..2.1. In para. 1: 2.1.1. in item II 2.1.2. of item II 1 "Current expenditures' is replaced by.1223 909,7 "is replaced by.1225 809,7 ". 2.1.3. of item II This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 1.1. The number "59 521,6" is replaced by "61 421,6" and is replaced by "59 521,6" by "61 421,6." 2.1.4. in II This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 2.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2.1.5. in item III "Budget relationships (transfers) " (+/-) ', the number 2.1.6. in item III "Budget relationships (transfers) ', p. 1 "Int. III" "Budget" with the central budget "Supreme budget" "The number "Supreme" is replaced by the number "Supreme" "Supreme budget" "Supreme budget" = "Supreme budget" = "Supreme budget" = "Supreme budget" = "Supreme budget" = "Supreme budget" = "Supreme budget" = "Supreme budget" = "Supreme budget" = "Supreme" = "Supreme" = "Supreme" = "Supreme programme" = "Supplied"===============External links=====External 2.2. In para. 2, c. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 3.1. The budget programme is replaced by the number "Species of Meteorology, Hydrology and Agrometeorology'; the number "Species of Meteorology, Hydrometeorology and Agrometeorology' is replaced by "Species of Meteorology and Agrometeorology'; the number "Species of Meteorology and Agrometeorology' is replaced by "Species of Meteorology and Agrometeorology' respectively. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21. Under art. 22 has a proposal of the MP Nikolina Angelkova, ending at 59: ...................................................................... 22, para. 1, II. The expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Tourism + 10,000,0 thousand is increased. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • As in art. 22, para. 2, p. 1 Tourism sustainable development policy number 23 962.0 thousand lv. It's 33 926, 0 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u465	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I open the discussion on the texts of members from 16 to 22 inclusive. Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u466	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I remember the previous years when I was a minister. As minister of the press, I've always been in art. 16 on the second reading here, in the chair. There's not a single minister tonight, not a single minister, not a minister, not a minister of finance. We have a change, we have a new management. It is a pity that this is the attitude towards the budget. All these things we don't do to politically brag that we've offered something. They make sense for those involved in the institutions concerned, for the work of these institutions, if the ministers hear some of the things we have said. Here, Mrs. Anastasova has told me more than once that the salaries at regional education departments are falling behind the teachers'. That was indeed true. The first year, we couldn't make an additional increase in funding, but the second year, the third year we did it. After all, we increased the remuneration at regional education departments by 70%. Because after twice increasing the fees of teachers, they largely started leaving employees at regional education and becoming teachers. In other words, we could not provide for the main function that regional education departments had to perform. It made sense to hear from us tonight and the Minister of Environment and Water about the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. I hope someone tells him. Maybe the colleagues from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. Tell him he won't be able to secure the activities of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology with footage if there is no income policy. There work people with education mainly in the field of physics. Very few students study physics, it is very difficult to keep students who study physics because these are usually students with very good skills, with very good performance indicators in other areas. Not to mention the discrimination that is being done against the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The criminal action that was launched at the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. I hope that he has heard this.. the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev that science in Bulgaria is not only in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, but also horizontal. There's also science at the Agricultural Academy. We are currently increasing the funds, Minister, of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, but not of the Agricultural Academy. I don't know how you're gonna explain it. [[Calls Minister Ivan Ivanov.]] Did you ask the Minister of Finance for the Agricultural Academy? [[Calls Minister Ivan Ivanov.]] How do we explain that because of the historical failure one of the Bulgarian sciences will be divided into another academy, it will be discriminated against at the moment. Unfortunately, even the increase for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences will not help to overcome the main problem that we have and the main challenge that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has. This is the reproduction of scientific potential. You mean the detention of young scientists, the detention of PhD students. Because the editorial note, which was made on Mr. Karimansky's suggestion, is that the funds should be given for projects. Mrs. Anastasova, they have enough funds for projects. "The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences doesn't have funds for salaries. Yeah, you'll say wages are low because of previous managements. I gave you an example of four years of fees at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences were increased by 69% with 9% cumulative inflation, i.e. 60% real. Now, if these funds are given to projects, yes, one part will probably be for remuneration, but anyway we will have a minus 10% income policy in all budgetary organisations. Unfortunately, I heard the words of Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev. He believes that first, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, first, a garden must bind fruit, some flowers to bloom and then water them. I mean, as long as we don't have results, we don't have to do any income policy. Explain to him, please everyone, that there must be a base budget first. Firstly, we must have minimum salaries that give a signal attitude to young people who want to work in a system, and only then build up with a system based on results. There is no way to keep in any system, there is no way to attract young people to work in any system, especially where it requires special expertise, especially where it requires difficult education, if there is no ahead of the minimum wage growth in the respective job. It is the same as the teachers at higher schools with the 20 million that Mr. Gechev suggests to give, on the one hand, will be insufficient. However, I admire it, but on the one hand, it will be insufficient, on the other, as the text is written, they will not be able to guarantee an increase in minimum wages. I mean, the minimum salary for an assistant will be lower than the minimum salary for a teacher, even after that 20 million. Make an editorial amendment, convince Mr. Gechev, not in art. 16, and in the Transitional and Final Provisions. Let him consult with the Ministry of Agriculture if necessary. In fact, the problem is not enough for both policies - both for quality, and to ensure minimum wages - is that 20 million is a very low amount. You will still have problems with the fact that you are running away in every way from having a high inflation income policy. You won't last long on this. Find a way to convince the finance minister. I know that capital expenditures are important to you gentlemen and ministers and deputy prime ministers, but people are also important. Nicely labeled it as a public budget, but all employees in the public sector have a 10% real income reduction compared to the same period last year. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u467	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Is there any lines? Blasvest Belev, Andrei Chorbanov and Mukaddes Nalbant.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u468	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Valchev, I would like to congratulate you, first of all, on the policy that you have been conducting for very little time and the results of the teachers' pay are visible. I completely agree with what you're saying. Really, congratulations. But just talking about income, damn it, it's not gonna happen. You're the guy you found after the PISA tests what is the level of education of the students. It is high time for income policy to be linked to results policy. You know very well that in secondary school it is, I would say, the weak element where the relationship between primary and higher is broken so that at the outcome we have really educated people. I'm sure education policy needs good managers. Because budget funds increase every year. They're increasing by millions. Management of these funds is the weak link. For example, I will give you the Higher Naval School in Varna, you have been there, many times, you know, what was the state of the school 10 years ago, what is now and what is the level of well-being of the lecturers. No way, the teachers... A professor at the Sea School received a salary of BGN 1700, which is roughly comparable to the salaries of teachers. Far less than a professor at a civilian high school. With good management, thank God, poor people at sea school don't. The funds in the budget are only one part of the problem. The funds need to be linked to the results. I am convinced that the policy of money follows the student, the money follows the student, is extremely wicked.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u469	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u470	I'm done. An appeal for an increase in funds is not enough, and people must also be required to give what is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u471	Thank you, Mr. Belev. I thought it was an inappropriate expression that slipped out of your mouth. I believe it was an accident, but it's not right. The second line is from Andrei Chorbanov, the third from Mukaddes Nalbant.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u472	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, just to tell Mr. Belev about matters of religion and religion, we can comment on the expressions later, so it won't be a good time. Mr. Valchev, we've talked about this before. Indeed, the money that is given for education and science is not enough and will never be enough, because at least for me it is the greatest value in society. Under no circumstances should we oppose teachers with university professors and scientists from both academies. I personally believe that a policy should be respected over the years in which the status of this social group should be increased, because the future of the country depends very much on it. So it was positive that teachers received a more serious reward. On the other hand, however, the rewards of scientists are catastrophically low, but it must be said where all this comes from. Yes, indeed, in recent years the incomes of scientists have increased. However, it all started with a person called the then Minister Djankov, it all started since then. Cutting the budget was so high, so serious that whatever increases there have been in recent years, we have not been able to compensate for this total deficit. This name, which is mentioned only badly at the Academy and at every Institute of BAS, has a voodoo doll with which scientists scare their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u473	The third line is from Mukaddes Nalbant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u474	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In this Parliament, apart from colleagues from the parliamentary group to which I belong, the person I have known for the longest time and with whom I have worked for a long time is Mr. Krasimir Valchev. Yeah, he's a very good financier, but something about his look at education is limping. Nothing personal, dear Mr. Valchev. Because yesterday he replicated me, I want to remind him that during the years when he was not only a minister but also a secretary general, the percentage of gross domestic product for education was very low. The year 2010 after the Triple Coalition, this percentage fell by almost one. The following years I have labored to ask the Ministry of Education and Science, as we know, but the official answer is still more reliable, the percentages such as 3,5, 3, 6, 3.7 were really shameful for the Bulgarian education. Now, yes, he may have been taller this year too, but there is one story: the more, the more. What do I mean? Delegated budgets, which were introduced on 1 January 2008, led to so many problems that the higher the growth of the percentage of gross domestic product, the more these problems are growing. Dear colleagues, Bulgarian society has been very misled by delegated budgets. I am not proud of the fact that during the period when the teachers' strike was held and delegated budgets were introduced, I was the Chairman of the Council of Industry in the Ministry and I stood closely for 45 days to two ministers of education Daniel Valchev and the Finance Plamen Oresharski. However, I was the only one who could not fight these delegated budgets. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I've told everyone the last few days what's gonna happen. There's been a one-year closure of 400 schools. For a year! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm really gonna ask you for half a minute. Yeah, maybe the good news is that the network is being optimized, but the bad news is that since 2008. Until 2018, as my colleague pointed out, the results of PISA have finally brought us down on results in the European Union. In addition, the notion of decentralisation is misleading for the Bulgarian society because the delegated budgets do not make decentralisation, but within the system centrally determine the funds and empower the directors to manage them. Decentralisation, colleagues, by all certain definitions, is the granting of powers to municipalities in particular to the European Union. And here someone saw in the municipalities some vague enemy and tried to take away their right to make municipal policies. Thank you very much. And I apologize once again to colleague Krasimir Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u475	Thank you, Mrs. Nalbant. I gave you twice as much time as I could. Here you go, Mr. Valchev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u476	Mrs. Nalbant, and I'm going to tell you with an apology that you said a lot of wrong things and your analysis is very wrong. First, look at the last four years, in fact 2017 - 2021, education costs have increased from 3.7 to 4.5% of gross domestic product. The average teacher's salary increased from 88 to 124% of the country's average. One of the main reasons we do not have a good education is that we have been saving from teachers in recent decades and the lowest was the teacher's salary compared to the average 2007. We have changed this social and political choice. I am glad that the current government proposes to maintain this choice of 125% of the average salary for the country. Because we have a hundred factors here I agree with Mr. Belev, on which depends good and quality education, but the most important factor remains the good, prepared, motivated teachers. The increase in wages is not only a condition, but is a must. Where wages are higher than average, educational results are higher. There they manage to attract better students in pedagogical education and pedagogical profession. If for years we have been saved by teachers, this is why students with the weakest results are involved in pedagogical education and pedagogical profession. We can't have a good education if we save on teachers. That's what you were doing, Mrs. Nalbunt. Just when you were Deputy Minister, delegated budgets were adopted. Delegated budgets are not the main problem, they are a financial distribution formula and powers of directors that do not depend on municipalities. They don't go for a top paper or a pen to write business notes to the mayor or get the city accountant to give them money. There's no way the funding doesn't depend on the size of the school. Can you at 550, on the one hand, and 50 students, on the other, give the same funds? At least they have to pay different salaries. It always depends on one or the other. With us, it depends on one and the other. The system is relatively stable and if there are any problems, they are quite different and are not in the financial-distributive formula. As you can see, the last few years have been increased, they've been returned. A large part of the activities. The funding is a large part of the activities, which was terminated 1997. 1998 after the bankruptcy of the state. The day-to-day organization of the school day, you know, it's been terminated, interest activities have been terminated, the financing of extracurricular pedagogical institutions. The system is now relatively stable, and the same goes for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I agree with Mr. Chorbanov here. Yes, we have an increase, this increase is from a low base. You can say it's late, but it's a fact. That's 69%, after all. I wish the current responsible, innovative governance even more to raise the funds, but really, we take out inflation and then, because 69 minus 9 in four years You're going from minus ten now, which means for four years from now, by the way, three budgets remain, and one update, you have to raise them with... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mrs. Nalbant's been talking longer, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u477	Yes, it is, Mr. Valchev, but still.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u478	You have to raise them by 80% real.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u479	And you, in your initial statement, spoke more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u480	I'd love to have a chat with Mr. Belev sometime, because I see he's gotten into it. In fact, very often quoted PISA, this is the last thing I will say, but if you look at PIRLS and TIMSS, our results are very good, they are better than Western European countries, better than average European countries. What's the difference? The difference is that PIRLS and TIMSS measure according to the curriculum, and PISA is like an intelligence test, has a lot to do with one IQ test of Mensa for example. That is, our system is too ambitious to provide knowledge and too unambitious to transform them into skills. And this approach, called a competence approach, we've started it, but we've done it on a quarter, on a third of the way there are more steps to do. I would hope that the current ruling majority, the current leadership of the Ministry of Education, will do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u481	The weather, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u482	Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u483	Yes, indeed, I have given Mrs. Nalbant some time, but let's stick to the time written in the Rules. Mr. Secretary, come in. Just a second, Mr. Stankov. You? For procedure, you'll share, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u484	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened with interest to the debate, especially these and the claims of Mr. Valchev, until recently Minister of Education. I was interested in remembering the past eight or nine years when we were having a similar debate in this House, as a representative of the National Assembly at the time, he was defending all the gay ones that we now, as governors, are imposing. He was in the role of ruling, we were in the role of opposition. Unfortunately, during those nine years in which I have been present and voted on a budget, I have not seen any positive trend in particular, say, the Agricultural Academy to be at the height of which an academy is expected to be. Unfortunately, in the last nine years, ten, twelve, nothing has been planted to have anything to water now and to grow. The soil is empty, it's not planted. This soil will plant it and it will grow. Money for the Agricultural Academy will be available, and very soon after the necessary reforms, because I have no recollection here that the government has recently responded precisely in this direction, that this institute will rise to the necessary heights. This will happen, don't worry, it will happen for sure. In general, the problem lies in the entire higher education. Yes, they have made efforts for the secondary education results, unfortunately, you can see the annual results in areas of what they are. Especially in my field, where I am elected as a Member of the National Assembly, in secondary school the average score based on exams is nearly three. So, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, it is the result that will be given by what is being done, because I will say again that watering the unsoiled soil does not make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u485	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For procedure.. Hamid Hamid Hamid. [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] You're retiring her, okay. Jeco Stankov is for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u486	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Whether intentionally or not, Mr. Karimanski included in the debate and art. 21, which covers the budget of the Ministry of Energy. There is a specific line in which less than a billion leva are laid down, related to the financing of non-bit consumers, whose funds have been allocated only until March. My request and procedure is for you, Mr. Chairman, to also invite the Energy Minister, as well as the honourable Mrs. Ninova, Deputy Prime Minister, and Mr. Ivanov, Minister, are present in the Chamber. To be able to be present in the Chamber both the Finance Minister and the Energy Minister because the topic related to art. 21 is also related to their future actions. I have another procedure. My request is also that you put the vote to the vote, given the fact that in art. 21 are precisely the means for non-bit consumers, the debate to be broadcast until the end of art. 21 and BNR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u487	Mr. Stankov, your proposal is to broadcast on BNR, only BNR, and BNT is not. Dear colleagues, there is a procedural proposal from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov the current discussion, which covers art. From 16 to 22 inclusive, broadcast on BNR, only BNR, no BNT. That's the procedure, guys. Voting mode. We are voting on the proposal of Zhecho Stankov. Colleagues online. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u488	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u489	Tsvetelina Zarkin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u490	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u491	They voted 185 MPs in the House plus 2 online. 187 total: 58 against 111 and 2 online.. 113 total, abstentions 35. The offer is not accepted. We shall continue with the discussion under art. 16 to 22 inclusive. Stefan Shilev is listed as a reference. Excuse me, Tsveta Galunova was before that. I'm recording you, Mrs. Nalbant. Mrs. Anastasova, I've got you on tape. Within the framework of this discussion, there are quite a number of entries. Here you go, Mrs. Galunova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u492	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I know that it is late, I know that we are tired, but I would very much like to draw your attention to a matter of little social importance, namely culture, because it is very important to survive not only as individuals, but as people, and as a people. It is extremely outrageous what is set out in the draft budget for culture, namely only 0,6 s and less than 1% of gross domestic product. For this reason, I, as well as hundreds and thousands of other people, are going with these tapes for several days to protest that the money that has been allocated for culture is extremely insufficient. I would also like to draw your attention to an issue that has gone very far in recent weeks, namely the issue of museums and that they have made a request, which was for a 50% increase in their subsidy, and the Council of Ministers voted only 5%. Even after the current increases, the money allocated to them is extremely insufficient to cover their overheads. The state is the largest employer and as such it should be a good example of this. And I would like to quote the words of Finance Minister Asen Vassilev, who said in one speech that only incompetent employers pay low wages to their employees. And in this sense, I would like to call on you to support the proposal that we have put in place since the age, namely to respect the demands of museum workers and workers for a 50% increase. That's actually 29 million. That's only $29 million. And here I can immediately compare that we are giving hundreds of millions for vaccines, tens of millions for tests of children and I cannot agree that we cannot separate 29 million for the institutes that protect the cultural and historical heritage of Bulgaria. And in the end, I would like to remind you that a nation that does not develop its culture melts into a foreign one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u493	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. Are there any lines? There's a line. Here you go. Honest Mitev for speech or a line? For a line. It's for a line, Elena Guncheva. Here you go. For a statement, I've recorded 10 people, just to let you know. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u494	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues, honourable colleague Galunova! Yes, the subject is very relevant. I also thought to make a statement on the subject, but I suppose that in this proposal you include galleries that are not less affected by museums. I would like to quote one of my fellow citizens, Atanas Burov, the famous diplomat, statesman and financier, who says that who does not appreciate the prepared people of a country, he undermines its future. It is no coincidence that I quote it precisely in the spirit of today because Atanas Burov in his professional biography and mostly political career or rather mission comes to the sub-chair of the National Assembly and as such fights on the front, is wounded and receives the order of valor. I, too, cannot stand by the sad view of the historic hill of Tsarevets, where museum workers during the week insisted on a decent and fair pay. However, I congratulate the President of the Budget Committee, who pulled the ruling coalition out of the confusion situation, showed a professional reflex and a great deal of improvisation to vote on yesterday's additional funding for the museums. But I still believe that nearly 150 Bulgarian museums, which should be a temple of historical memory and spirituality, are placed in a mode of survival and vegetation. I find it disastrous to oppose the two pillars of spirituality and enlightenment, but the imbalance is fracking. Under the Cultural Values Act, they are publicly available and subject to protection by state and municipal authorities. And in this regard, dusting should be of public importance. I continue to believe that economic recovery and upliftment are linked to the spiritual awakening of the nation, so I hope we can find a solution to art galleries as well. In them and in the Bulgarian museums the average wage is between 700 and 800 BGN, so I hope, colleague Galunova, to include in your proposal the Bulgarian galleries, which are not less victims and have almost identical problems with those of the Bulgarian museums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u495	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Second line. Just a second, I thought someone had given, besides Elena Guncheva, someone else for a second line. Okay, Yavor Bojankov and the third of Elena Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u496	Mr. Chairman, on the brink of your patience I will make a line in the line. Mr. Nikolov, who is so concerned about closing, is one of the main drivers to close one of the schools with hundreds of years of history in the village of Polykraishte, so it's a little strange to me when he is now so concerned after 12 years of targeted policy in which they have not taken care of the people of culture in any way, but now, you see, two or three months after the beginning of this government he is very concerned and his history does not suggest that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u497	Yeah, I just remembered who I didn't give a line to, but... I apologize, Mr. Mitev. I apologize very much. Mr. Bojankov, your line should still be aimed at the main statement. Elena Guncheva has the third line. And then the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u498	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Miss Galunova! I don't agree with you. The budget of culture is not only insufficient, it kills Bulgarian culture. What the past decades have been devoted to culture is shameful, and I would call on all my colleagues today to correct this mistake, because highways, tunnels and bridges can always be built, but a 13-century history, a culture that has been on our land for thousands of years, cannot be restored. An artist is not built after a public contract and after a year or for a term of office. A culture has been created for centuries. For years, education, maintenance, collection, storage is needed. Our children should go to the museum and not see dusty windows where the exhibits are torn and where it's shameful to even enter. Because I recently took my son to a museum and I was ashamed of him for allowing this state of museums in Bulgaria. And I take my hat off to those people who work there for some miserable salaries that can't even compare to the cleaning women's salaries and the secretaries in some offices. I call on you to truly support this proposal and to allow Bulgarian culture to at least survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u499	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Here you go, Mrs. Galunova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also thank my colleague Nikolov for adding. Yes, museums and galleries go hand in hand. I personally met with representatives of the National Art Gallery, whose workers and workers had come to the National Assembly to protest such proposals and the planned budget. Because it was about the proposal that we voted on yesterday, which even some of you said were wrong about voting on the 12 million. lv. That 12 million. BGN, which we voted on yesterday, does not affect the museums of municipal alimony. This is very important and I would like to call on you, too, if you have not met with museum directors or museum workers, to get acquainted in depth with the issue, as I have held many such meetings and there are 111 museums with state subsidies for which we voted these 12 million. BGN, however, 49 or 50 museums remained on municipal support, i.e. they remained without state subsidies without the 12 million. lv. and only and only rely on the favor of the municipalities, which, as we know, are currently agonizing financially. Therefore, I call on you to support the request of museum workers, not to enter into bargaining on the subsidization of museums, because they cannot ask for BGN 29 million and we can give them 12 million. lv. and expect them to be satisfied with that. We can't bargain with culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u501	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u502	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u503	Wait a minute! Wait a minute! You are welcome for personal treatment, then for procedure.... Mr. Mitev. Mr. Nikolov, just so I don't have to give another personal explanation, don't mess with Mr. Bojankov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u504	I think, Mr. Bojankov, about your parliamentary experience, which is greater than your years of service, you must have learned that there is no such procedure. [[Strong noise and shouting from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And we don't discuss the cartoon budget. Otherwise, I think you are more important there, as your attitude towards culture comes down to films, such as Kung Fu Panda and the like. Thank you. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS and shouts: "Bravo! Bravo, Mitte!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u505	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. [[The National Representative Yavor Bojankov comes out on the stand.]] Mr. Bojankov, you for? [[Heckling]] Mr. Bojankov! Mr. Bojankov, I haven't given you the floor yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u506	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u507	Wait, wait, wait! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Bojankov, please step back for a moment! Mr. Nenkov, please don't do this from the spot! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u508	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u509	Colleagues! Mr. Bojankov, what is your request? For procedure. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u510	I am doing a procedure, Mr. Chairman, for yes, I said it with this agreement, knowing that I am on edge, ultimately of the procedure, but Mr. Nikolov went beyond the edge of this procedure in his personal explanation of my reply and I am obliged to give two words clarification in this procedure. Mr. Chairman, you should have interrupted it to you because he was talking about cartoons, kung fu pandas, and in fact what I said that he was never sensitive to this topic, because when these events took place, he was a partner with the shot businessman Peter Hristov [[Shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The donor of GERB, master of 50 million public procurements and then, at that time, when this financial flow, waterfall, as you like to call it, was going in this direction, he was not so sensitive to the culture and schools that closed in the field, but now he has become quite sensitive. [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u511	Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u512	Dear Mr. Chairman, procedure in the manner of conduct. Because what we just heard wasn't a procedure of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u513	How could it not be?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u514	It was more of a personal explanation that Mr. Bojankov had no right to because he was given a personal explanation. Otherwise, it was basically a rural story in the culture debate. That's what happened. You could have had it in some other debate, but in the debate on culture, I don't think that the people who are standing and if they happen to be watching this debate deserved this stupid procedure in a way that wasn't in the way of conduct. I'm leaving this for Mr. Bojankov's account and at your expense, Mr. Chairman, because you could have interrupted it. It's not worth talking about in this debate! Thank you. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS and shouts: "Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u515	Here you are, Mr. Mitev, for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u516	It's the way it's supposed to be. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm going to ask you, because my line has been dropped, I'm going to use a brief line to what we've heard since we've been reborn, which is absurd once again. [[Strong noise and shouting from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u517	Mr. Mitev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u518	We have, are we...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u519	Mr. Mitev, to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u520	...100 million. lv. more about culture this year. 100 million! 40% more than last year...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u521	Mr. Mitev, to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u522	...and to say that we don't give for culture, is a complete laughter and ignorance.. read your budget and see it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u523	Mr. Mitev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u524	Plus 12 million extra!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u525	Mr. Mitev! [[(People's representative Tsoncho Ganev to the stand, away from the microphones:]] Colleagues! Mr. Bikov! Mr. Bikov, please, the debate really... [[(Replications. People's representative Tsoncho Ganev: I want a reply! I want a line!]] Wait a minute! [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev. People's representative Tsveta Galunova wants the floor. Replies of the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev to the Vice-President. Noise and lines.]] Colleagues! Wait a minute! Colleagues, please take your seats, everyone! To this tribune, colleagues speak when they are given the floor. Please take your seats. [[People from different parliamentary groups near the stands want the floor.]] Mr. Dimitrov, please take your place. Mr. Dimitrov, please take your place. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] Mr. Dimitrov, take the seat, please. [[Heckling]] I'll take it to impose punishment and think about who to do it to. Mr. Dimitrov, please take your place. Mrs. Galunova, I don't think you're entitled to a personal explanation. [[Tsveta Galunova wants the word for procedure.]] Okay. I didn't give you the floor! Please step down from the stands! Colleagues, look! It's 9:45. The debate was going well, we're risking getting out of good graces. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I dropped it, Mr. Nankov?! How? When I asked Mr. Nikolov not to mess with Mr. Bojankov! Is that how I missed it? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I do not speak on behalf of Mr. Nikolov, nor on behalf of any of the MPs. Are you suggesting that I impose punishment as a nanny? [[(Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] We're MPs here! I think that each one of us should be mature enough not to turn the stands into some kind of circus. I am making a remark to Mr. Mitev because he did not have the right to make this remark in substance in the procedure unofficially, because I have to do to Mr. Nenkov, who made an insult to Mr. Ganev, who made an insult and so on! I'm not getting into this stuff! Colleagues, Mrs Mukaddes Nalbant has been recorded for speaking. Mrs. Nalbant, please come in so we can return the debate to its normal tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u526	I want a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u527	To speak, Mukaddes Nalbant.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u528	I have a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u529	Here you go, Mrs. Nalbant. I heard you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u530	It's the way it's supposed to be. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u531	Mrs Mukaddes Nalbant for speaking. Then I'll give everyone a procedure. Mrs. Galunova! [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Nalbant, you have the floor. Colleagues, please take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u532	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I'll take the floor under art. 17 for culture and I will start with the name of a Bulgarian village of Tatarevo. Is that right, Mr. Minister of Culture? The renovation of a community center in Bulgaria made a popular young man with an interesting biography and education and made him a minister of culture. He's renovating the village's community center, from which his grandparents are, and my congratulations, Mr. Minister! And now let's get to the point about the Chitalishtes. Since the Minister of Culture is here, I am extremely pleased to put this issue right in front of him. The first community center in Bulgaria was opened 166 years ago, long before the Liberation. The Chitalishtes in Bulgaria, honourable colleagues, are in the UNESCO register of good practices. Yes, we in the Committee on Culture heard, met, heard the problems of the Opera, the National Theatre, the Philharmonic, the Museums, the People's Library. These are all wonderful cultural institutes that have their financial problems. Dear colleagues, I am a teacher and I can say this out loud, but I would ask that we really hear from each other because we are talking about something unique. The unique, honourable colleagues are the Bulgarian Chitalishtes. Because everywhere in the world, in the capitals of the countries there are both theaters and operas and ballet. With all due respect and respect that I have for them, but something that is not anywhere in the world that is unique to our country, which should live because in these community centers, honourable colleagues, is cultural life, however modest it is, spiritual life, social life in over 2,600 settlements. So much more or less are the Chitalishtes in Bulgaria at the moment, some of them have defended themselves. If we really want to preserve our identity in culture, if we want to keep not only museums, but what makes us really very rich with the modest means of community centers, let us not allow them to be closed or shut down. I hold in my hand, honourable Members, a letter from the representatives of the Bulgarian Chitalishtes. Although I'm not wearing my glasses, I'm going to try to read a sentence or two right now. The increase of 10.3% of the amount of a subsidised Chitalishte is 12 666 BGN. per year, which makes for every month 1055 leva. The minimum wage of 710 from 1 April 2022 with the corresponding insurance and taxes is 923 BGN. Clean amount for receiving from a Chitalishte worker.. 505 BGN. In the amount that remains per month, all other costs are included. Honourable colleagues, in these long-unrepaired buildings are being done rallying, gathering dance groups, gathering choirs, performing rituals, traditions, the place where the social life is living is there, in every village, outside the big cities. My proposal, in fact, the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, is modest, we have imported it and propose a new para. 4. (4) The standard for financing the Chitalishtes to increase by an additional 10% above those provided for in the budget, with the necessary funds at the expense of the central budget. Dear colleagues, now is the time to prove that we are patriots. When I asked the Committee on Culture several times the question of how much the percentage of gross domestic product increased for culture from 0.40 to 100 million absolute values and so on, it finally came back to what I had argued with my colleagues Dear colleagues, a total of 0.6% for culture is sufficient for the Chitalishtes all in Bulgaria and not to mention everything that is included in the cultural sphere. Really...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u533	Time, Mrs. Nalbant.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u534	... Indeed, I ask the Minister of Culture to really do everything necessary to protect the sphere for which he is responsible and to help each proposal to be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u535	Thank you, Mrs. Nalbant. For lines? Mrs. Galunova, then is Iskren Mitev and his colleague from the DPS, forgive my colleague, Stoil Stoilov. Here you go, Mrs. Galunova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u536	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me the floor after all. Chitalishtes were actually there when our country was gone and they appeared the small islands of culture in small settlements. In this sense, I support Mrs Nalbant's proposal ahead of me. I believe that more funds should also be allocated to the Chitalishtes, because at the moment the subsidised figures provided for Chitalishtes are not enough to support them, let alone to maintain the building fund and I use the case to address the Minister, who is now among us, for which I congratulate him that he is here because I know that he has resumed the Chitalishte, and I sincerely hope that he will defend this position for us before the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers, because the Chitalishtes are a pillar of Bulgaria and I believe that our attitude towards them and towards culture as a whole is indicative for us as a people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u537	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. Second line "Stoil Stoilov," third "Stoil Stoilov," member of the DPS. I'm sorry, if you'd like to make a statement. Mr. Stoilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u538	Thank you. To ask, Mrs. Nalbant, how do you feel about these additional funds that you propose, how do you propose to make sure that they are not actually spent inefficiently, so to speak, because at least in our Pleven area we have received many signals about fictitious Chitalishtes that actually receive a subsidy but do not actually operate. It would be my concern to give money without reforms.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u539	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Here's a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u540	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister, Dear Mrs. Nalbant! The Minister of Culture has run a community center, he has rebuilt a community center and that is the argument today to be a Minister of Culture. As a Member of the National Assembly, I would like to hear personally his opinion on this issue of financing Chitalishtes in the country and what is his attitude towards this case. That's what I'm interested in. I want to know what the Minister of Culture thinks personally, as we have never had the opportunity in the Committee on Media and Culture to hear his opinion on the budget, and this is the basic law that finances this socially useful activity, and you know that without culture there is no development of any country. The Chitalishte is the foundation of the country's cultural activities in small settlements. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u541	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. For the doppelganger, Mrs. Nalbant. Here you are, Mrs. Nalbant, and after your doppelganger, the minister will take an attitude. I ask you to respect the time that the statement was quite long.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u542	Yeah, yeah, this time I'll be brief. Dear colleagues, a short time ago I gave the numbers for a reason to calculate the difference. Of this standard, which is set for the Chitalishtes, there remain 200 leva. I don't know what corruption, what abuses, what walking inappropriately and illegally there can be with 200 leva, with this money the Chitalishtes are heating up, doing some repairs, if they can afford, changing a light bulb or something else, buying costumes, buying different things needed for the Chitalishte. But in principle, an honourable colleague, the one who gives the money, is obliged to control it. There's no reason to look somewhere unknown when the person who has to carry out this control is here. Dear colleagues, I do call you, even what we offer is small, because when you visit your hometowns, I suppose... [[(The President and the People's Representative Iskra Mihailova are talking behind the speaker's back. Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change..............................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u543	Excuse me, Mrs. Nalbant, continue your ass.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u544	As I made a proposal yesterday, which I have called on all of us to unite, to have a national consensus, to have a national agreement, to have such education, in the same way I now appeal to all of you. I'm gonna cut my ass off. I think people who have relatives, relatives or are from a village know the meaning of the Bulgarian community center. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u545	Thank you, Mrs. Nalbant. Sorry to interrupt your speech. Mrs. Mihailova, I tried to explain to you that after this procedure you will have the floor. Mr. Minister, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u546	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers! I am extremely excited right now because it is perhaps one of my most intimate topics, namely the Chitalishte. It is my honor that MPs mention the name of my favorite native village of Tatarevo. It is my honor that you are familiar with history, but I will tell you what was the purpose of this whole odyssey with Tatarevo. The aim was not at all to make a festival that took place in 2021 for the seventh time in a row. The goal was with a group of young enthusiasts and collecting money, unfortunately, mostly from rich Americans in Los Angeles, to revive the scene in order to use this scene precisely for activities, to fill it with content. [[(Applause from.. We continue Change............................................................................................]] It was my idea so that once I took my path again, it could be used by everyone. That's the goal of the community centers. They're community property. Unfortunately for me, however, this scene was locked the moment we left, and I quickly realized that if I didn't come back, it would remain that way. I do not agree, unfortunately, that the social life of every small settlement took place exactly in the Chitalishte, and you could have come to my village of Tatarevo, certainly the social life was not in the Chitalishte when I went there to restore it. What I'm about to say is my personal attitude, and I'm sorry I forgot which gentleman asked me, but my personal attitude may seem contradictory to you, but that's the truth. I, as Minister of Culture, no matter how much I love Tatarevo, no matter how much I continue to go back there and with my own resources to do what I can, knowing that there is no activity on this stage, unless my friends and I return, I would never allow to spend government money on the Chitalishte in Tatarevo at this stage. [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] , and in every other Western community center where there is no activity. Activity is what makes sense of these scenes. For this I will fight and disagree, Mrs. Nalbant, because the scene was usable and I can tell you that after we restored it, I have put concerts there with minimal funds, really minimal, literally with 200 leva, as you say. 200 leva. something can be done, however minimal it may be, but it is not done if there are no people to do it. That's my personal attitude. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u547	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, Mrs. Mihaylova is the first to wait for the procedure, then Mr. Ali. Mrs. Mihailova, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u548	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. I just want to apologize to Mrs. Nalbant for accepting your invitation to come over and talk to her behind her back and interrupt her speech, and I sincerely apologize for that. Mr. Chairman, you refused three procedures and called me to explain to me that this was because you wanted to calm down the room. Please tell me where the Rules say what the President wants and how he applies it without it complying with the Rules. You refused three procedures, then you admitted to me that you refused them, and before that you allowed a colleague from your political formation to come and make a reply to a final statement, which had ended with the backdrop. He made a replica of the back, then you refused these three procedures. How, Mr. Chairman, does this contribute to good tone, to order, to justice in this Chamber, which you then tried to make an argument for all those violations that you committed? And I take the opportunity that I am in a procedure to say one more thing to my colleagues in the ruling coalition. Today, your Prime Minister has called... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u549	I have the procedure, Mrs. Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u550	...the position to stay here and make a quorum when the quorum ruined it by you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u551	And you're breaking the rules right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u552	Explain these things to your Prime Minister so that he does not expose himself in the public domain, as he is also required to be our Prime Minister and we do not want to expose him like this! Thank you. [[Applause from ARRANGEMENT.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u553	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u554	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me the floor after all. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is entirely to you in the manner of conduct. To remind you once again from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, that we live in a parliamentary republic. And in this sense, not only us, the MPs, but also you as President and as the first among equals, you must respect both the Constitution and the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, which has the status of law. In relation to art. 90, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 Reg. 91, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria on 15 December last year through you to the Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov was asked a question... [[Laughter and cheering.]] Colleagues, I cannot understand why you are clapping for the fact that the President of Parliament is not following the Rules? Is that why you're clapping? Through you, Mr. Chairman, we asked Minister Boyko Rashkov a question on 15 December last year that there were over 20 thousand Bulgarian citizens who were harassed, who were repressed during the elections and during the election day. Last year. This week, and last week in the region of Burgas, where I am from, my colleagues who were candidates for MPs, colleagues were harassed, were used to the police and were forced to sign a Protocol that they would not agitate. Therefore, I ask you: please correct the status on the website of the National Assembly, where it says that this question is answered because 20 thousand Bulgarian citizens are waiting for an answer from you. Follow the rules, follow the Constitution of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u555	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Mrs. Galunova for a procedure. Mr. Hamid, there's plenty of time until we get to you. Here you go, Mrs. Galunova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u556	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you because you have not given procedures several times, and you have not given any right to a personal explanation. I call on you, if you are having difficulties dealing with what you have as a responsibility at the moment, just to give up the place of Nikola Minchev, who is already among us. I would like to return the debate to its core, because here were two proposals, one of which is related to museums. Let us return the focus back to the proposals for an increase in the subsidy for museums and an increase in the subsidy for Chitalishtes. So I'm asking you to stick to this. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u557	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. Mrs. Nalbunt. [[Heckling]] Yes, Mr. Cholakov, and you're on the list.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u558	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable ministers! I'm taking the floor by procedure, but my procedure isn't the way it's supposed to be. My procedure concerns the Minister of Culture because it is strange why Radoy Ralin reminded me: I am not afraid of the Minister of Culture, but of the Minister's culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u559	Mrs. Nalbant, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u560	Because, honourable Members, here a minister has allowed himself to say that he is not interested and will not give money for something that is in his portfolio. This is unacceptable! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u561	Mrs. Nalbant, you know perfectly well that your procedure is also not mentioned in the Rules, and you have allowed yourself to abuse it. Mr. Totev, come in. Then there's Mr. Cholakov. Are you speaking, Mr. Totev? Mr. Totev to me in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u562	It's not in the way of conduct, it's a statement. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u563	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u564	You can look at it any way you want. Whatever you want to write it down.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u565	Mr. Totev, a moment. [[Conversation away from microphones.]] Mr. Cholakov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u566	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please very much, let us find the appropriate legal and procedural form in which Mr. Totev can make a statement, albeit for one minute. He has something very interesting and important to report to the Chitalishte in Tatarevo. Please give him the floor. What he has to say is important.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u567	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Hamid for procedure, and then Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u568	I'm offended that you didn't give me the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u569	Are you Mr. Karimansky for procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u570	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the last 15 minutes, and more, yes, thank you, Mr. Bikov, we've been listening to everything else, but not a budget debate. [[speaking indistinctly]] No, it's not a budget debate. [[Noise and lines.]] Well, if we're listening to a budget debate, we need to be specific, with motives and arguments. [[Noise and lines.]] There were 15 minutes in which there was no budget debate and I am making a remark to the President to lead the budget, not to listen to reading and cultural activities. [[Noise and lines.]] If there is a hearing, the Minister of Culture and you ask him questions then. Now you don't ask questions to the Minister of Culture. Please read the Law on Chitalishte Activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u571	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Stefan Shilev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u572	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen and ladies of Parliament, honourable ministers! I would like to refer to the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water to change the subject a little. In fact, the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water has not actually been changed in terms of the remuneration of employees, with a slight exception. This little exception is the national parks that receive a compensatory increase of 20% in their remuneration. Of course, in the previous year or year and a half there was an increase in the remuneration of regional structures in the MOEW. I don't know if any of you, I suppose, are familiar with the work of the regional structures of the MoEW. These are RIEWs, pool directorates, regional laboratories, which are part of the Environmental and Water Executive Agency and national parks respectively. They are the regional structures that conduct the Ministry's policy on the ground. They're the ones who, when there's a problem, go to the right place and try to solve it. They are the ones who control the implementation of policy on the ground. What's going on? In the current budget, we see an increase of 20%, at the risk of repeating the remuneration of only national parks. We know that official inflation is more than 10% in the last year, but when we talk about food products, which is actually extremely important, this inflation is already going to 25 [[Heckling]] Please, if you want, take a line after that, of course. What I want to say is that the lack of an increase in the remuneration of regional structures working on the ground is a bad signal. It's a bad signal for people who get 24-hour shifts every Saturday and Sunday with two emergency teams. When there was an accident like this in Iganovo in 2015, then you go, then you send a laboratory, then you send a RIEW. These people, I don't know if you know how much their pay is, for the 24-hour shift? Ten cents an hour! Ten pennies! So what do we do now? We don't even give a signal to them, at least as it was with museums, although it was extremely low 5% below the increase of the minimum wage, which is 9.2%. All this gives us reason for me and I suppose many colleagues from GERB, not to support the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Of course, there are other aspects that colleagues will explain, but we will most likely prepare a proposal during the update to increase the remuneration of employees in regional structures, especially the MOEW. I want to stress again, when there is something, they are there when there is discontent with the citizens, they are there when there is discontent with the structure in Sofia, they are there because that is their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u573	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Is there a line? A line from Manol Genov. For speech said Toma Bikov, Jevdev Chakarov, Petar Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u574	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Shilev, this question that you are asking right now is not from yesterday. If you remember, this moment with the wage hikes of employees in national parks we have discussed it because for years their salaries have been forgotten. They were just forgotten, abandoned. So let us give due recognition in this budget that the funds for their remuneration have been increased. If we have to go back, you have also been the administrative head of such a unit on the territory of the city of Plovdiv................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I think they've worked for less before. So it's unnecessary right now with the environment to have populism, and there's no politics there, there's an environment there, whether we protect the air, whether we protect the water, whether we protect nature. I want to take you back to something else. Then, when ten Italian carabinieri discovered the deal with the Italian waste in Bulgaria, from which serious shocks in your government followed. Have a memory and remember who brought up the debate here, who brought up the question and what happened next? So it is better for me to be humbled, to be silent, and this issue really put in the budget update, because I think this coalition has a bearing on both the environment and the people who work to protect it. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thirty seconds, Mr. Chairman, to remind you what happened then.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u575	Mr. Genov, you've already been over time for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u576	The regional inspections in Bulgaria are tens of them. They didn't do as much as for ten Italian carabinieri who discovered and exposed the illegal export from Italy to waste in Bulgaria, and we welcomed them here with Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u577	Thank you. Colleagues, please stick to the time. Is there a second line to Stefan Shilev? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u578	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Shilev, I remind you that at a meeting of the Committee on Environment and Water, we were looking at the Ministry's budget. This meeting was attended by the Minister and experts from the Ministry. They have adopted the proposed budget without any objection, so I do not see why you are proposing a change of the framework after the minister himself has adopted. Your concern for environmental protection is touching, but why didn't you react in the same way when the environment was being destroyed in Belashtitsa? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u579	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. The third line from Ivan Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u580	Mr. Chairman, ministers, fellow MPs! Third day, we're already struggling with the budget. It's a hundred times about salaries. The Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister explained several times that results will be needed first, reforms and then there will be an increase in wages. Enough work, enough work, we need results.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u581	Stefan Shilev for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u582	Thanks for the lines. And now, in due order. Mr. Genov, thank you for your reply, you have deviated exclusively in your reply. It was not at all about what I was talking about, but what I said was that there really was 20% in national parks, which of course is something to be noted, although these 20% went down for last year and for this year, that is, they are no longer there. They compensate for the increase in... In fact, prices in the last few months. Regarding what you said about the transfer waste from abroad, of course, no one is faultless we should say that this was our coalition partner at the time and made a lot of changes in relation to the transfer of waste. And as far as the reporters are concerned. Yes, I have given two reports, I even tried from our regional inspection to make sure that no numbers are removed because, you see, RIEW Plovdiv, frankly, not always, not to say that it has always been the stepchild, because in some other year there are always numbers taken from RIEW Plovdiv, and the loading of the inspection is not very small. Surely there are people who know this here. As for Mr. Georgiev. I live in Belashtitsa, I'm one of the biggest winners, Mr. Georgiev, for protecting the environment. Thank you for what you said about careers, because thanks to the two penal decrees that we have made for environmental pollution, the Minister of Energy in our government has stopped careers. So thank you for your comments.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u583	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. All right, here you go, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u584	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because this tribune makes false suggestions, completely replaces the subject. You yourself said to stick to it. Mr. Georgiev from BSP, you are infernally delusional, you don't know the case at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u585	Mrs. Kanazireva, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u586	And just so you know, we didn't just take measures, we were the only ones with an act by the Minister of Energy...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u587	Mrs. Kanazireva...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u588	... Temenuzka Petkova were stopped both careers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u589	Mrs. Kanazireva, please, it's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u590	Please, Mr President, really follow the item and order of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u591	I'm following the point, but... And in this procedure you made a statement or a line, I don't know how to point it out. I give the floor to Desislava Trifonova. One second, I give the floor to Desislava Trifonova because she specifically asked, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u592	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u593	So I don't need to be yelled at by Mrs. Kirova on Kostadin Angelov's recommendation. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u594	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to talk to you a little bit about art. Art. 19 and art. 20. These two ministries are the Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Innovation and Growth. We will not support the proposed budgets for several reasons. First, for us the division of the Ministry of Economy is artificial and was done only to find a position of one particular person. Secondly, the division of the two ministries increases the general administration. Thirdly, the total state number of the state administration is increasing, given that the government of Kiril Petkov announced that it will make cuts. Fourth, both ministries have the same strategic objectives. I don't know, fellow Members, have you seen the budget forecast of the ministries in programming format? Equal strategic objectives are announced there, for example, with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises. The money has been given to the Ministry of Innovation and Growth, and hard work has remained in the Ministry of Economy and Industry. With regard to their strategic objectives for small and medium-sized enterprises, I am giving you an example of what is envisaged in the Ministry of Economy. For example, the budget programme "Promoting small and medium-sized enterprises and industry', such as the Ministry of Economy by 1 million. $100,000. lv. support small and medium-sized enterprises and make them more competitive. We do not even know how many businesses will be supported, with what values, especially at these inflation rates, we do not even know what the projects will be. With regard to the Ministry of Innovation and Growth, in addition to all operational programmes, I apologise, not all of them have been allocated nine million to attract investments, nine million. Minister Lorre announced in the Economic Commission that in addition to those nine million, they still have 13 million in the budget somewhere else. We asked him where they were? We didn't get an answer. To this day, we have no answer from him where this 13 million more will come from to stimulate investment. The worst part of the Ministry of Innovation and Growth's programming material is that they intended to attract only 600 million investments. That's half as small as last year. They've set great goals for each other! Finally, the Ministry of Innovation and Growth, in fact the Minister does not see it here, apparently believes that its budget is not important, the Ministry wants 900,000. lv. for systems of the Bulgarian Investment Agency. Colleagues, I can tell you that this money, in the way they want it, is for projects that have already been implemented, and it has been established through the Operational Programme of the Bulgarian Investment Agency. I want to quote you on what the Agency wants to create a register to find out how we're going to spend 900,000. lv.? Register of foreigners with the right to residence. Open the Rules of Procedure of the Bulgarian Investment Agency and the Investment Promotion Act, it does not have such functions, it simply does not have such functions as Excel format, we have no idea. We'll make a register of industrial parks for 900,000. BGN, provided the Ministry of Economy and Industry plans to approve 27 zones for three years. For 27 zones we're going to make an information system?! The other register is for high-tech innovative projects. Unless the Agency is planning to approve hundreds of innovative projects with the budget of nine million that are at stake and with another 13 million that are somewhere but we don't know where. I don't know why we need an information system especially for something that has already been carried out through the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness." Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u595	Thank you, Mrs. Trifonova. Are there lines? Venice Angova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u596	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Trifonova, I am trying for the third time to explain to you what is the difference between a start-up and a small and medium-sized enterprise. I explained it to you in the Commission in the first vote, and I explained it to you afterwards, and that's why I'm asking you right now, I'm asking you in front of the entire audience to understand the division between... [[noise and lines.]] The National Assembly. To understand the division between a start-up and a start-up and a small and medium-sized enterprise from the real economy, please come out and explain the difference? What do they need? Why is it necessary to make a targeted development policy? And why are these two ministries actually being created? You know the answer very well because I have presented it to you in the Commission many times, so in your duplicate I appeal to you to distinguish between startup and real business from the real economy. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u597	Thank you, Mrs. Angova. Is there a second line to Desislava Trifonova? Hristo Gadget, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u598	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was a little surprised at your speech by saying that funds are provided for the Register of Foreigners to be carried out by the Ministry of Innovation, provided that such a register is maintained by the Ministry of Interior and it has existed for years. Now I don't know if this duplication of functions is going to be, or something new, I just wonder, I don't know what that would be necessary for. Since the Ministry of Interior is the authority in the country that maintains the register of foreigners and who resides where. The personal documents that are issued are actually issued by the Ministry of Interior, which is why I'm surprised. And the other thing that we may and should criticize you is that, as far as I know from those who are in charge of the speeches and the lines that have been made before, money is given against results. What results exactly do we expect from a ministry that has just been created and will there ever be?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u599	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Is there a third line to Desislava Trifonova? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Trifonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u600	As colleagues in the Chamber say start-up, Mrs. Angova, is the Ministry of Innovation and Growth. In terms of start-ups, how many percent of them go bankrupt? Ninety-eight percent. You have lied from this tribune, and that is that you and I have commented on the topics of small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups, there has been no such thing in the Commission. The other thing, the surest thing to promise something and it won't happen is when it already happened, so what you want to do right now is lie to society about some money that has already been used, and you know it very well. And with regard to the budget of the Bulgarian Investment Agency, I want you to tell me where are the 13 million, which will further target the investment, and why are they not in the budget now and are not visible? Is Mr. Kiril Petkov going to negotiate in the dark another 34 million for a certain company that has gone bankrupt several times already? [[Noise and disapproving shouts.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u601	Here you are, Mr. Karimansky, for procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall! This discussion can also be held in the Commission, as we understand it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u602	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs from the left and right! You've been a lot longer MPs. [[Reply from DPS.]] No, wait, don't rush a little bit like the wagon in front of the horse. I don't know if he remembers anyone on the left and on the right of a second vote on the budget, either of the three, as if we were looking at the first vote. [[Reply from DPS.]] No, it wasn't always like that, because there are people from the Ministry of Finance and they remember more than you do. You seem to have white spots. Please, we are at the second vote on budgets and such free writings that you are doing here are absolutely untenable! Let's stick to a second budget vote and have a really meaningful, meaningful debate, if there's going to be one, and not everyone has to say what they want from this stand. [[Reply from MP Halil Letifov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u603	Mr. Letifov, and I will answer. Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I also call on my fellow Members to be more focused, to really be on the substance of the dispute, anyway we have seen the bill in the first vote, and within the financial framework itself under art. 1 we were quite specific. It's okay. After all, that's all I'm calling for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u604	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u605	Is that necessary, Mr. Letifov?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u607	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u608	Mr. Chairman, thank you for giving me the floor in the manner of conduct, but it is really important that the order of the House is violated tonight. I understand that colleagues are tired, but that is how we voted. But that doesn't mean that we're going to break the rules, that doesn't mean that people's representation here is an audience. Yes, if Mrs. Angova's title is Re, the rest are an audience and we are the Republic, but it's not. Then, Mr. Karimansky, when he says that colleagues have white spots, art. 153 in this respect there are six points, you can apply one of the six points, the sixth being the removal of up to three meetings. Believe me, it will calm down if you apply t. 6 in relation to Karimansky. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u609	That's right. 6 If we apply to the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance for a second vote on the budget, it will be really very serious. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Ninova, come in. After that, Ivan Totev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u610	Mr. Chairman, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am glad that finally, somewhere around 11:00, there was also a talk of economics, because without a working economy there will be no money left, but I am not happy about what I heard in the Chamber, because it is the least surprising. Dear colleagues, you have legally obliged us by the end of March to present you with a register of industrial zones. I was only here two weeks ago answering a parliamentary question why we do not respect this deadline and this register is not ready and I promised you that by the end of March, as required by the law adopted by the National Assembly, there will be a register of industrial zones. So the question of why the budget provides funds to build such a register is pointless. It's under the law. Secondly, it sounds even weirder why we're making a register of foreigners. I do not assume that there is a MP who does not distinguish between foreigners at all and foreign investors in particular. We are obliged and in the budget it is envisaged to make a register of foreign investors and it is absolutely logical to be public in order to be subject to control, to know where investments are moving, to be able to control this process. And third thing to explain on the issues that were put to the budgets of the Ministry of Economy and Industry and Innovation and Growth. Dear colleagues, the Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and their policies go to Innovation and Growth, but in the Ministry of Economy and Industry are the foreign trade representatives of Bulgaria and one of their duties is to present in their work abroad the potential of Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, although in a small amount, the budget of the Ministry of Economy and Industry provides funds for this. The functions are very clearly scheduled and distributed. The Agency itself and policies are towards innovation and growth, along with the program, but the foreign trade representatives of Bulgaria have the task to participate in the whole process of attracting investors and it is quite logical that this task should be secured with funds. The two ministries will work hand in hand in terms of economics, investment, growth and industry, and this is absolutely normal. You can't split up in this area and not have cashiership, and you can't help the structures of one or the other. As far as the specific numbers provided for in the budget of the Ministry of Economy and Industry are concerned, I would just like to draw attention to some more, which are obviously being ignored at the moment... the increase of funds for consumer policy. At the moment, in the crises we are in, I have told you more than once, consumer policy has become the priority of the Ministry, and in this part the budget of the Ministry has been increased precisely to cover this policy. I remain available for all other specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u611	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. And now Ivan Totev - come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u612	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. President, I believe that when we are having such a diverse debate, namely a lot of topics in a set of speeches, it is good even with a little compromise to listen to each other, as I have told you that Mr. Shilev, taking the topic, will spoil the good debate on culture. Now we're talking about other things, and we need to go back to culture. I wanted to say two things. The first is that I felt personally affected or rather slightly ignored by the Minister. And the second part of my speech should have been to support colleagues who wanted more money for the Chitalishtes. I take this opportunity to thank all my fellow Members who voted for the funds for the museums this was very welcome by all museum workers. I, as a person who has been extremely helpful in the development of the museum case, am very happy about it. The example I want to give is that Plovdiv, as you know, will always remain European Capital of Culture. During this wonderful event, which lasted a whole year, Plovdiv Municipality had a special program of some funny ones, if I may say so, 250 thousand. BGN, which gave life to the Chitalishtes, as my colleague Atanasov said, to the whole of Eastern Rumelia, an active life. Mr. Minister, this Chitalishte in Tatarevo was one of the beneficiaries of the European Capital of Culture for the Vloggers Programme. I feel like a guy who's got so little wind in the back of the sails to become a minister and I was expecting a thank you to hear here, but it doesn't matter. [[Arrival in GERB-SDS.]] The important thing is that we have still helped with our small cause............... the European Capital of Culture................................................................... [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] So the example we gave with 250,000. BGN, Mr. Minister, you can probably check this out, because I suppose you know our mutual friends from the Foundation Plovdiv 2019. So when colleagues come out and want more money for community centers, keep in mind that with very little money, many miracles can be achieved, even if someone becomes a minister. You've got a big budget, you've got 40 million for business. [[Reply from the National Representative Venko Sabrutev.]] Who replicated me from the gym? Mr. Chairman, here's this gentleman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u613	Mr. Sabrutev! He even confessed to it himself.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u614	Mr. Sabrutev, come on, don't replicate me from here, please, because there's no way that's gonna happen. I'm sorry, but I haven't let them talk to me for eight years at the City Council. [[Arrival in GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u615	A little more serious, colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u616	So, colleagues, if we can't vote here more money for the Chitalishtes, I think there is enough money in the culture budget. And Mr. Minister, do some project funding program. With very little money you can achieve really very good things. This isn't about asking for money for this or that community center. You know they want very little. We've given 500, 1,000, 1500 leva each. And they've done wonders. What you have done is respect for everything you have done, of course, it is extremely positive, should not be overlooked in a debate in which a debate then comes out Stefan Shilev, says something about water and suddenly culture goes into the canal. It doesn't have to be like this! You must be a minister who is powerfully defending the development of culture in Bulgaria, and the Chitalishtes are an inextricable part of this. Good luck to you!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u617	Mr. Totev, was that all over the budget? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u618	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since yesterday I've been listening to art. 1, when we voted, and now your colleague Dani Canazireva spoke about the European Capital of Culture, you are saying today about the European Capital of Culture, I want to remind you of one thing - I, as municipal adviser 2015 - 2019 - exactly for the European Capital of Culture and Mrs. Dani Kanazireva, were sending out signs of abuse during the European Capital of Culture. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Me and Mrs. Danny Kanazireva, who has her own group on the City Council, then we filed complaints with the prosecution, we wanted AFFI to check everything out! I want to ask you, Mr. Totev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u619	Colleagues, get on the budget, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u620	...do you now find time to talk about this exactly when you have even one mayor in Plovdiv, who was also 2015 against you, and now you want to show again? [[Reply by National Representative Zhecho Stankov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u621	I hear you, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u622	Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u623	Mr. Petkov, we get it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u624	European Capital of Culture. And, Mrs. Kanazireva, no, there is no one of the citizens to come to Plovdiv to film with something that was made for the European Capital of Culture. Because then there was to be a concert hall, Mr. Minister of Culture, 2022 no one can be filmed. Movies had to be done, 2022. No one can be filmed. Do you know what you've done? Yes, one trap and one hotel Imperial. [[Applause and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u625	Colleagues, budget theme. The line was not on the budget, but the main statement was also far from the budget. Please, Zhecho Stankov's comment was correct, but it also applies to all the main speakers in the case as well. Is there a second line to Ivan Totev? Mr. Yordanov, come in. I believe your line will be filled with analysis of the numbers we see, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u626	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Surely there are numbers in my line and it will be very short. Mr. Totev, the scene on which the European Capital of Culture was opened is the same scene that we used at the stadium Vasil Levski, and it cost us 600 thousand. lv. And you spent $2 million, you thieves! [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u627	And the third line to Ivan Totev is waiting. Rosen Turtle.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u628	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Totev, for what 250,000? lv. We're talking? The budget of Plovdiv 2019 started at 10 million and last I think, without swearing it, ended at 25 million, and what happened to Plovdiv at that time was a complete failure. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And I think that all MPs from Plovdiv here are 22, come your six we will leave them, but 16 MPs from Plovdiv and the district can confirm it. It's a disaster! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] For what, 250 grand? Mr. Atanasov, are you talking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u629	Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u630	Dear Mr. Chairman, no one is a prophet in their own city. [[Voices by "Keep On Changing": "Eee!"]] Mr. Turtle, it's a good thing you didn't swear, because when St. Peter gets here, he's gonna say, "Where have you sworn?" [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Yordanov, this abominable lie that was spread by your superior was quickly disproved and this gentleman with the sound nickname [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria and DPS]] She called the D.A.'s office. What's the matter, sir? [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, yeah, personal explanation later.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u631	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u632	You filed a complaint with the D.A., of course. He's one of those guys who said how it was going to be in the honey barrel, in the sense that he's going to use it. And because he's a very good city councilman, so now they don't have a group councilman from BSP there. Things are very good. [[Applause and laughter by GERB-SDS.]] And to ask him, how many councillors does he have? Because GERB has a zero! And your municipal councilors voted with my friend Mr. Zdravko Dimitrov. It's clear. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They are not your councilors, so BSP in Plovdiv I do not know. So this was a wonderful project and just Plovdiv people here two Plovdiv people, and I say this, already to Plovdiv people I turn: two Plovdiv people to come out of the stands. Tosko Yordanov excluded him, he is not from Plovdiv and will never be, he cannot be from Plovdiv...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u633	His wife is from Plovdiv!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u634	...but two Plovdiv people to go out on the stand and say such things against Plovdiv, that is a shame to you! You are a great shame to Plovdiv...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u635	Mr. Totev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u636	You're not. Don't worry. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u637	Mr. Totev, behave yourself!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u638	Thank you. Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u639	No, you don't have to tell me. The statement you started had nothing to do with the budget, so, of course, you set that tone on the lines. Please! [[National Representative Dani Kanazireva wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] They didn't hurt you, Mrs. Kanazireva, please. They said with you! The next statement is Mladen Shishkov. Mr. Shishkov, come in. [[Relations from the National Representative Danny Kanazireva.]] Please, ma'am! Please, Mrs. Kanazireva! Let there be, in substance, speeches within the debate. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov. [[Replications between President Nikola Minchev and the MPs Dani Kanazireva and Alexander Ivanov. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u640	She hires a lawyer now? What's going on out there?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u641	You have the floor to speak. Mr. Shishkov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u642	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to reassure the House a little by returning the debate within the State Budget Bill to a second vote and, as you said, the numbers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u643	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u644	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers! Although it is very difficult to talk about a budget in view of today's events, I will try to make a brief analysis of the budget in the sector of Ecology and talk a little about the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water. My colleague Shilev made several marks on it. I would like to take a slightly more detailed statement on the so-called budget. This budget has one positive and not a bit negative. The positive is that the funds for the environment in 2022 are significantly increased. However, the negatives are that the means of air, of water and, notice, of climate are not increased. They shall remain within the budget of the previous year. However, significant growth is noted in the habitat resources of animal species, as well as in informing the public about decision-making. I, too, have a great desire for the pink flamingo and the white kestrel to live well, but it is much more important for me that Bulgarian citizens breathe fresh air and drink clean water. But let's look at the numbers in detail, like I said. Number 1. In the budget programme "Assessment, water management and water protection" there is an unexplained decrease in expenditure in percentage terms. It is not a coincidence that the Priority Axis "Water" has always been at the forefront of the tables and has always been assessed with the highest risk to the environment and human health. In this respect, a proportionate reduction in the budget is inexplicable. I hope that one of my fellow Members will provide an adequate explanation for this decision because, unfortunately, I do not see the Minister for Environment and Water, who should be present in the Chamber when discussing this budget. And I would like to ask: is this the way to fight for the clean environment with reducing clean water resources? Number 2. A significant increase in expenditure is also observed in the waste management budget programme. This increase is logical against the background of the criminal procedures that Bulgaria tolerates. Number 3. There is also a proportionate reduction in costs in the air traffic sector, but this is probably due to the significant increase in funds in the PUP. We hope that an adequate mechanism will be established to assess and finance priority sites. And attention! Number 4. It is very impressive to see the significant increase in the budget in the budget programme "Save, strengthen and restore ecosystems, habitats, species and their genetic resources." In the last three years, colleagues, the funds for this programme are between 7 and 9 million. For 2022 the funds are 25 million, that is, almost 2.5 times the increase for habitats. Are the new rulers telling us that the habitats of clean water, clean air, and clean people's dwellings are more important?! With all due respect to biodiversity, which has its permanent place in the country's policy, but until all problems with the living conditions of the Bulgarian citizens are resolved, a priority for every ruling should remain the environment in which people live. I very much hope that this sharp turn in the policy of the Ministry is not influenced by the minister's profile. I hope that his motives, as well as those of fellow members of the ruling majority, are exceptional and only selfless. Don't let it turn out that we've given money to the wind or to the right organizations. Number 5. Another budget programme marks a significant increase in its funding, namely "Informed public participation in the decision-making process and the implementation of control mechanisms'. This increase seems illogical against the background of all other changes. It's a shame how a million-two budget in the last three years has been rising three times this year and it's going to be 6 million. Can one of our colleagues explain exactly how he will inform the public about three times the amount of money in comparison to the past years? Number 6. An interesting impression makes the almost double budget cuts in percentage for the management of climate change activities. Contrary to all the requests we've been given in recent years, the climate seems to have been left on the second floor and taken somewhere in the corner. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. Is the climate no longer a matter for the government? We would be grateful if someone would explain this reduction in budget expenditure as well. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u645	Thank you very much, Mr. Shishkov. Replices to Mladen Shishkov? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u646	The way you're driving!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u647	Here you are, Mrs. Kanazireva, for procedure. Tell me what I did wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u648	Dear Mr. Chairman, this is the second time I have addressed you in today's sitting and I ask you not to allow this mahlenian manner of conduct from this high tribune, which I personally respect. I address the MP from Plovdiv and I will tell him the following: there is no one better than me who knows the problems of the city and has offered solutions, constructive solutions! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u649	Colleagues, no lines, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u650	Yeah, I've criticized and signaled. From everyone else I accept criticism, but not from the BSP, because if I remind you of the history and sins of Plovdiv, I will list: Fair, Old Town, urban transport and many, many more objects that thanks to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u651	Mrs. Kanazireva...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u652	...of your party...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u653	...you're out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u654	... were spent and sold in the city of Plovdiv some of the emblems of our city! So keep your arrogance, your self-confidence, have a little more respect for this tribune! And once again, Mr. Chairman: please do not allow such expression and behavior from this tribune. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u655	Thank you. After completion of the duplicate by Ivan Totev I think I summarized the speech, the lines and the duplicate, how much they were related to the topic at all. Are there any other procedures? [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Simov.]] Are we sure of this procedure, Mr. Simov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u656	Dear Mr. Chairman, we are sure of this procedure, because when a person like Mrs. Kanazireva comes out here, who is trying to become a political saint and who says that there is great merit to Plovdiv, it is good to interrupt such people. That Mrs. Kanazireva's biography is full of...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u657	Mr. Simov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u658	...migration from party to party, it's not my fault! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u659	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u660	Mr. Simov, let's stop...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u661	After all, Plovdiv does not deserve people like Mrs. Kanazireva who take all the credit! I'm a Plovdivian... [[Calling from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u662	Mrs. Alexandrova, don't yell at me like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u663	...and I know that Mrs. Kanazireva is not a good advertisement for Plovdiv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u664	Yes, it wasn't. Was it Mrs. Kanazireva's? That's enough! I'm sorry, but neither can you, Mrs. Kanazireva, nor Mr. Simov, take such procedures. You both did, just as Mladen Shishkov had put the debate back into the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u665	Procedure, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u666	Jevdet Chakarov has long been waiting for a statement. Mr. Hamid, let's hear your procedure. Jevdet Chakarov for a statement after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u667	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, despite my little internship in Parliament, I have witnessed several debates on the state budget. At the moment, this debate has gone out of bounds and I fear it will be difficult to return it to the state budget. I ask my fellow Members to show some respect for the ministers who have come to answer questions about the state budget. We've heard, colleagues, it's about clean water, it's about fairing the generals. Colleagues who have concerns that they haven't been drinking clean water for a long time, and something else has turned this debate into a fair, and my procedure is to end the debate because it's going to get worse. [[(Applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u668	Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u669	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Hamid, my request to you is to withdraw your proposal, given the fact that we are talking here about a debate on several members. I will also appeal to Mr. Karimanski to simply not make the summation of many members who are heterogeneous in their kind. Mr. Hamid, don't we have a chance to discuss art. 21. I thank the Minister of Energy for being here. There are many important things in art. 21, which is related to the budget of the Ministry of Energy. Please, really, if it's okay, withdraw it. We've always been constructive on our part. Expect a constructive debate in the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u670	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Indeed, until now there has been no statement under art. 21. We get it. Thank you. [[National Representative Hamid Hamid withdraws the proposal.]] You're withdrawing the offer. I also appeal to the Members of the National Assembly to be focused on their speeches, to actually be on the ground. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u671	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Chairman, we really need to calm our emotions down and get to the point about the budget. I would like to take very briefly the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water. I would also go to the Minister of Culture for the Chitalishtes for support. With regard to the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water, I will not go into detail. I had a more detailed intention to see the different policies. I would like to take account of what colleagues Mr. Shilev and Mr. Genov have taken on the payment of the administration, in the central administration, in the Ministry of Environment and Water. There is undoubtedly a partial success here in view of the fact that several times after questions asked in previous formats of the National Assembly and in the ruling majority of ministers and deputy prime ministers. In view of a question being asked, this disproportion in the payment of the Ministry of Environment and Water administration was corrected, but after my question was asked to the Minister of Environment and Water about the numerous criminal procedures to our country, the justification and explanation was that the payment was much lower than other ministries and other departments. I turned to the deputy prime minister at the time. There was a partial solution in view of not all structures being approached with an increase in wages. I believe that this disproportion of inequality must be overcome. In modern times, the pay at the Ministry of Environment and Water is far behind the other administrations and offices. This needs to be corrected, I hope, with this budget. I also addressed the Minister as an appeal to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ecology. You've made such a commitment. I hope this will be done. We cannot fail to take into account what is being done as a positive step and what is being done about the enterprise's budget for environmental management activities. We hope that there will indeed be a special feather there for small and medium-sized settlements, something for which we appeal, and we hope for building infrastructure there to be serious funds in view of the provision of a very serious resource on this feather. I am addressing the Minister of Culture in view of the proposal made to increase the budget of the Ministry of Culture in the Chitalishtes section. I'd offer him a good time to come by to see some community centers that turned to me. They will not be in Plovdiv region, Minister. For example, in the village of Radibosh, the municipality of Radomir, the village of Vokil, the village of Paisievo, the village of Rujno, the village of Boel in the municipality of Dulovo, the village of Sini Vir, the municipality of Kaolinovo. You will see Chitalishtes where without a team, without special clothing you will not be able to enter there, step into these Chitalishtes. It is hardly necessary to say once again about the historical heritage, about what they have performed as a function for all of us, about spirituality. So my appeal is to see them and the call of the people who are there, they will welcome you. To make nice projects these Chitalishtes everywhere in these and elsewhere, to be restored and functioning normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u672	Thank you very much, Mr. Chakarov. [[Applause from DPS.]] Are there any lines to Jevdet Chakarov? I can't see. The next speech is from Nikolina Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u673	Thank you. I will make the procedure brief and after that statement. Mr. Chairman, my procedure for you is...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u675	...to propose to Mr. Karimanski, after the debate on these articles is over from 15 to 22, then to read a member by member and especially where there are proposals so that the debate does not dissolve and jump from topic to topic and get what is so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u676	I get it. Thank you. Come in with the speech now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u677	My speech relates to my proposal for an increase in advertising funds on the budget of the Ministry of Tourism by 10 million. lv. additionally. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I see the Minister of Tourism was here, but he's gone. Yesterday in the framework of the discussion under art. 1 of the State Budget Act I proposed an increase in funds for tourism, which is one of the most affected sectors of the pandemic, and given today's circumstances related to the military actions of the Russian Federation on the territory of Ukraine, this will have an extremely detrimental effect on Bulgarian tourism, given that both Russian tourists and Ukrainian tourists were of the important for Bulgaria and were targeted markets for Bulgaria in a portfolio of tourism. The Minister of Tourism shared several times during the hearings in the portfolio tourism commission that he wants to have focused advertising, to be able to restore the tourist flow to Bulgaria. These efforts we support, but money is therefore needed. It was said yesterday that the budget of the Ministry of Tourism is historic. As I said, I do not see anything historical in the fact that the budget is increased by 2 million. And 111,000, a million and a half of which for staff and a million and a half for advertising. At $23 million. 926 thousand. in policies relating to the sustainable development of tourism, which also relate to the means of advertising provided for this year, the amount of EUR 22 million. And 37,000. The increase is insignificant and I think that all of you who declare that you are concerned about Bulgarian tourism and its recovery would be right to support at least this 10 million. as additional funds to the budget of the Ministry of Tourism, although yesterday you rejected in art. The 1 120 million that were planned to enable the sector to deal with all the crises that need to be met from the effects of the Kovid pandemic to high electricity prices and to the efforts it is making not only to recover, but mostly to survive. I'm counting on your support in getting the Ministry of Tourism an additional 10 million. lv. for advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u678	And thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Replices to Nikolina Angelkova? Here you go, Mr. Kralev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u679	Dear Mrs. Angelkova, in order to help our colleagues make an informed decision, we should also give a reference to how neighbouring competitive markets stand around us. From the advertising budget of the Ministry of Tourism is purely 18 million. BGN, which includes booths, marketing surveys and advertising campaigns. In comparison, neighbouring Greece has 80 million, Croatia 50 million. a budget, Turkey has 100 million. Euros. It is very difficult to reach these figures, to pursue such competitors as our neighbouring countries, so I pay attention to my colleagues with these figures from the neighbouring markets, the tourism sector carries around 9 billion in the Bulgarian economy. The expectations of the branch organizations are the budget of the Ministry of Tourism to reach, if not this one, in the coming years at least 90 million. BGN, their arguments are 9 million tourists per year come to Bulgaria, 10 BGN per year. Travel tax, that's where the budget money comes from. This sector really needs our support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u680	And thank you, Mr. Kralev. Are there any other lines? I won't. A hole from Nikolina Angelkova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u681	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! Mr. Kralev, you are right, it is very difficult to fight and be competitive when you do not have the necessary budget and financial resources, you should compare yourself with the extremely high budgets of Greece and Turkey and Croatia and Spain and Italy, not to mention. Unfortunately, Bulgaria is at the bottom of this indicator. Therefore, once again, I call on you, all of you, who, in your words, claim to support the sector of tourism, let us not do a social experiment with the sector! Let's not let the sector be like in the surrender, but help it survive and recover and continue to carry more than 8 billion. in the country's gross domestic product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u682	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. The next speech to go back to the educational theme. Antonia Dimitrova, you're retiring, all right. Kostadin Kostadinov was also on the topic of education, I think. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u683	Mr. Chairman, I will return the discussion on the subject of culture because there have been a lot of speeches. I want to say something that few people might realize, as I have worked for four years as director of one of the largest museums in the country. In our museums are preserved treasures, which in a variety of rough and inaccurate assessments, because there can be no such assessments, exceed between two and three times the value of Bulgaria's gross domestic product. There have been various speculations over the years that almost they can be paid off twice or three times the debts of our country, which, of course, cannot be done because they are national treasures, but they have been accumulated for almost a century and a half since the third Bulgarian state exists. Every year, this treasure grows. New and new artifacts are discovered each year with the activities of Bulgarian archaeologists, which then, thanks to the efforts of the Bulgarian Conservatives working in museums and in the restoration workshops for conservation and restoration, acquire a species that is as close to the original, after which they become part not only of the Bulgarian but also of the world cultural and historical heritage. As a result, it enriches not only the Bulgarian but also the world culture. At the same time, the salaries that people receive in the field of culture, those working in the museums at the moment, the clean amount that they take very little exceeds the amount of minimum wage, it hesitates between 750 800 BGN. purely, these are the amounts received by museum workers. This is because in 2010 not only museums, but also all cultural institutions then in the country, as well as the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, including a defeated blow was struck. Then the effect of Dyankov swept away the Bulgarian culture, then were blown up from the inside, both BAS and the museums, as well as the Chitalishtes, as well as the galleries, libraries in general everything else you can think of. Years, years later, this effect has not yet been fully overcome, even with the amount that it eventually took to add to the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, that 20 million. BGN, however, can not even reach the level, naturally in line with the inflation index after 2010 of the budgets that these cultural institutions had during the period until 2010. We have a proposal for the amount voted on to be increased, it has been increased, of course, albeit by mistake, but the good things ever happen and in this way, and we believe that this is something that needs to be supported. People who work in museums do it to a large extent, not for a salary, but for a cause, only there is one small detail about people with a cause getting old. The average age of staff there is about the average age of employees in any other similar institution. Unfortunately, as is the average age of teachers, welders, nurses and we have a very serious problem with the work resource in our country and we will see it very soon. Those people who still work, not because of wages, but because of the cause, are gradually retiring. In their place, new people are hard to find, because those who came could not be motivated by this salary, and in our time the cause is difficult to motivate. For this reason, the Bulgarian museums are threatened by many different things, but are generally threatened by removing the quality of their work, which is not good for the state. A few years ago, there was a big problem because of the reduced alimony some of the museums couldn't afford to even pay for security. We've come to a situation, I won't go into detail because I just don't want to give this information, but we've come to the point that museums that store treasures for dozens, not to say hundreds of millions not to have night security. Some of them could barely afford to pay the S.E.L.D. This creates very serious risks, thank God, so far there has not been a breakthrough, but the last two years because of the so-called anti-epidemic measures Bulgarian museums have been placed under a quarantine and it has come to a situation where even their small own incomes have been minimized to symbolic sizes. In practice, they remained to rely only on the subsidy, which limited them even further. As a result, museums agonize. I call for thought to be given to increasing their maintenance and we have made a proposal in this direction, which I think it is reasonable to support. I believe that the Minister of Culture could also help here, by the way, given that he is most likely familiar with these things. But the most important thing that we have to unite around is this: from our attitude to the people, and our people to culture depends not only on how we feel about our past, but on what our future can be. A nation that does not respect its past, who does not care for it, who does not try to promote it and who does not promote it, because, as we see at the moment, the soft power of contemporary cultural influence is mostly linked to this type of policy, unfortunately, there is no future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u684	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mrs. Galunova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u685	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And right now, people who work at museums work for minimum or close to minimum wage. I would like to call on you to support a 50% increase in museums and I will explain why. When an increase is voted for museums in 2010, it is then reduced again. In fact, within a few years, the position in which museums are located in 2015 returns to the position in which they were in 2010. This leads to the fact that the basis on which we are currently raising the subsidy is low. Even if we think that 50% increase is a lot, it's actually a little bit because the base is very low. When we increase even with a large percentage on a low base, the money is still low and not enough. In this regard, I would like again, as the vote is approaching, to bring you back to the topic and to call on you to vote on the proposal that we introduced for a 50% increase and to give that 29 million to the Bulgarian museums and galleries that they need to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u686	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Thomas Bikov for a statement. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u687	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I'll continue with the budget for culture. The first thing we need to say is good that the budget for culture is increasing. Henceforth comes the question, and we have yet to see how effective it will be spent, of course, and what it means effectively. This means determining what is the purpose of the Ministry of Culture and in general of the Bulgarian cultural sector, how far it goes. When can we expect some short-term and long-term results. What I am impressed with in this budget is that it focuses much more on capital expenditure, which in itself is a good policy, but we also need to respect the situation we are in right now. The situation is that we are in a crisis situation. As of today, it is becoming even more critical and hardly anyone can predict what scale this crisis will reach, including in the economy. I would like to stress that people who are not highly paid are working in the sector of.... and they will be one of the victims in this situation. Unfortunately, the current budget does not predict income policy. Here Finance Minister Asen Vassilev said that money will be given for results and so on something that sounds good. However, I will tell you and I hope, in the process of work and I am sure that you will understand that results cannot be achieved if these people are not at least compensated for this blow, which they will take at the moment and the administration of the Ministry of Culture, and the administration of the various funds in the Ministry of Culture, and some of them allocate serious financial resources against salaries of BGN 1000. 1200. And then we wonder why not the best projects have won, but the worse. For me, the announcement that's being given is a misguided approach. First you have to raise these people's incomes, by the way, in our last government we showed in education what happened. In education, the teachers' money has been shockingly increased in four years by 100% and you can now see many young teachers, skilled teachers who have started work because they have been attracted to this profession and have seen that it has a high social status. Capital expenditure will result after a year, two, three, and we currently need to resolve this crisis that we have to keep these people, to see these people who is doing what and what they are doing, where, if you want to optimize the process and then start demanding results from them, and before that set a specific goal. What a result we ultimately want from culture. Just to have some culture, to have fun with some culture, to export a culture that is already the more serious thing, of course, to maintain our national identity, because culture, in my opinion, has the primary purpose of this, culture means identity. This means the soul of the Bulgarian nation and this cannot go on a project basis, as stated. Yes, there should also be projects, but I call on you in my mandate, however long it is, to balance, to water this garden of Bulgarian culture with means so that people do not escape, because projects will win some, and others will not win, and not always earn the best. Whatever standards you set, whatever mechanisms you do, not always the best can win a project. We should not allow ourselves in these difficult times to sacrifice culture for other things. I hope that the budget of culture will increase and there will be more money in the update. I hope, then, that there will be an understanding that people in culture are more important than buildings in culture and more important than capital expenditure. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and shouts: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u688	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. A line to that statement? For speech Temenuzhka Petkova, then Zhecho Stankov and Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u689	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! First of all, I would like to say that I will only speak on the subject relating to the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 on a very important topic, such as energy, and in particular the budget of the Ministry of Energy. In the last 30 years, perhaps, we have been in such a situation for the first time that we have started the year without having adopted a State Budget Act. The state budget law has not been passed in the context of unprecedented several crises.. health, social, economic, and as of today also a crisis related to the development of a military conflict that is happening next to us. For the vision of a government and how it will solve these crises, how it will come out of them gives an answer precisely to the State Budget Act with clearly defined policies and objectives in it. Unfortunately, at this point we are the end of February and we do not have such a budget, we do not know what the government's vision is about how it will come out of these crises. The state budget is strategic not only about how public finances will be managed. The adoption of the State Budget Act is extremely important from the point of view that it gives an answer to the question what will be the state's participation in the country's economy. And this, in turn, is extremely important for every economic entity to be able to plan its activities. Colleagues of the ruling majority failed to give this predictability to the Bulgarian society so that individual economic entities could properly plan their activities. It is in these conditions that we have read from the Political Party GERB and the Union of Democratic Forces of the Budget of the Ministry of Energy that gives us reason to be very concerned, because in the budget of the Ministry of Energy we do not see any provision for compensation after March 2022. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Keep in mind, honourable Members, that from now on, the trend is that these high prices will remain and the situation will become more and more complicated. However, what we see in the budget of the Ministry of Energy concerns two decisions of the Council of Ministers of 30 December 2021 providing a total of 860 million for compensations that concern, note, the period of December "January 2021" and 2022 respectively, and February and March. After March 2022, no such compensation is foreseen. This is the reading of the budget of the Ministry of Energy. And in this regard, honourable Members of the ruling majority, I do not want to be angry with us that we call this budget not a State Budget Act for 2022, but a State Budget Act for the second quarter of 2022. I would be happy if we could hear from the Minister of Energy what is actually foreseen as compensation funds and what is the maximum amount of approved commitments for expenditure that can be assumed by the Ministry in 2022? The situation is indeed extremely complex and I call on everyone to behave responsibly and to take the necessary measures so that we can guarantee a compensatory mechanism for the Bulgarian business, for the Bulgarian non-bit consumers. This is extremely important if we want to ensure their lives, their competitiveness, especially in the context of this military conflict, which is developing only one hand away from Bulgaria from today. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u690	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. - What's the line? I can't see. To make a statement, Jecho Stankov. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u691	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will also make my statement mainly in art. 21 of the State Budget Act, and I will address you and the Minister of Energy. What we have seen over the past few months, we have seen again in this budget. A kind of déjà vu which, unfortunately, does not help either business or non-bit consumers or citizens on the territory of the country. What do I mean? In October and November, aid to non-domestic consumers paid off December. For December and January, they paid off at once February. We are running after events, and I am sure here that the Minister will understand that when business is not sure and does not immediately receive its funds as aid, he is clearly and simply betting the higher price of electricity in his final product, which leads to very large costs that are paid by all of us, people, and from there we come to an increase in inflation. Unfortunately, this effect is also seen here in the budget, because what is described in art. 21, para. 3, proves again that funds were provided by the end of March, as you yourself stated, if I am not mistaken, yesterday. These funds are infinitely insufficient and show that again by the middle of the year, until this budget is expected to operate before an update is made, there will not be enough funds for the business or there will be any need to make amendments and equilibristics in the process as early as the first quarter of the Act. Moreover, the amount pawned by 996 million should be significantly increased, at least because the Deputy Prime Minister himself and the Minister of Finance said that after yesterday's actions 400 km from the Bulgarian border this budget is largely obsolete. What do I mean? Only yesterday and today the price of gas on spot markets reached a value of 148 euros per megawatt hour, and the price of oil at the moment exceeds over 105 dollars. I say this because, Minister, you know that these are also the components at which future gas prices are calculated on the territory of the country, for which at the moment there is compensation only for households, which will be infinitely small against the background of expected prices, at least promised by suppliers within Europe for 2000 euros per 1000 cubic meters. So in this regard, we would love to see and hear from you the measures imposed to help both non-bit and domestic consumers for electricity. I say this with the clear awareness that the moratorium works until 31 March, so from now on, except for non-bits, for electricity must also be laid down for domestic consumers. Moreover, the price and the formula by which the aid is calculated to non-bit consumers is mainly based on the arithmetical price of the exchange, and the more correct model would in any event be to be considered on the arithmetic price, which would also lead to greater aid to the business. Because when we stand in front of non-bit consumers and tell them: yes, we give you such a percentage of the increased price, then in the end, I give you an example for the last month, they receive help of BGN 141 when their energy bill is BGN 550. at a megawatt hour. Or in other words, non-bit customers have to pay again an account of over 400 BGN, which is re-entered into the final product and even more aggravates and raises inflation. I hope that what I have touched on in my speech will also be possible in your exposé to hear the details, because in the end, in the new situation, we are placed in short time and I hope that you will have the opportunity. We will support an increase in aid to non-domestic, in this case and special aid to domestic consumers, including a reduction in household VAT. The other thing I want to address is that in the last few months, the Ministry of Energy has rather become a paying agency. What I appeal to you is, on the one hand, either to raise and ask for more money for the staff, experts who work tirelessly to reach the aid to everyone, or, on the other hand, to propose to the Council of Ministers that these activities be redirected to paying agencies or other agencies, or, if you will, to operational programmes such as the Operational Programme "Competitiveness and Innovation." At the moment, given that no procedures have been launched or open application procedures, I believe that the experts there have much more time and opportunity to deal with these tasks. I'm saying this in your service so that you can subsequently engage the Ministry's employees to help. [[Reply: "Search! "]] Time is sunny, mate. [[Radio.]] So my proposal is constructive in terms of taking advantage of the full capacity of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u692	Mr. Stankov, one minute has passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u693	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your tolerant time. Thanks again. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u694	Thank you, too. - What's the line? Professor Angelov, a line maybe? Here you are, Mr. Dobrev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u695	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Without underestimating the importance of the proposals made and those made by all my colleagues, it seems to me that the most important topic in this budget is energy, and I will tell you why. Since last year in the crisis we are seeing, although it is not economic, but it is a crisis related to inflation across the European Union, and especially in Bulgaria, caused by the fact that energy resources are very expensive. This leads to inflation. In the European Union about 5%, in Bulgaria twice as high as 10. We have repeatedly said that the main reason in Bulgaria for inflation to be significantly higher than in the European Union is that there is no adequate compensation in Bulgaria. In this regard, we pay attention again, as we did in July last year when the budget was updated, that it is appropriate to set additional buffers in the State Budget Act in the part of the Ministry of Energy. You heard from Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, you heard from Mr. Stankov that some compensation, insufficient in our opinion, is available until the end of March. The situation with the war in Ukraine shows that prices of energy resources will not calm down in the next few months, as we all hoped with the warming of time. Today, there were times when the price of gas on international exchanges reached 140 euros, compared to pre-sales prices from this energy crisis within 8 euros. So we have 10, 15 times the increase in the price of gas, which needs to be adequately compensated. In this regard, our main thesis here is that funds must be laid down for compensation of expensive electricity and gas after the end of March 2022. And if I may, one more general remark. In this State Budget Act there are 737 proposals for budget corrections. This, according to the government, is one of the best budgets ever created in the country. There are 737 suggestions for adjustments. And notice, perhaps someone will be tempted to replicate me that this is because the opposition has made many proposals. My answer is that the opposition first has its job, but even more importantly, these 737 proposals make 204 adjustments on the part of the ruling party. The ruling parties have tabled 204 proposals to repair the best budget created in this country. In view of this and in view of the situation in Ukraine, I suggest to you that I regret that the Finance Minister and Deputy Prime Minister is not here to postpone the subsequent examination of this budget, to return it to the Budget Committee. We heard yesterday that the finance minister rightly pointed out that this budget is no longer up to date. But if it is not up to date, now is the time before we close the budget with the vote on the last paragraph in it, review it in the Committee on Budget and Finance and make such adjustments as you think are adequate for the international situation at the moment. Even before the war in Ukraine, this budget was inadequate in terms of economic growth and inflation. That's not what we opposition say. This is what the BNB said, said the European Commission, said the International Monetary Fund and various other organizations. Now, with the war in Ukraine, this budget is even more inadequate. In order to save plenary time, it would be best to return it to the Budget Committee, to apply the adjustments that you think are right, and to submit it again for consideration. We have time. Until 31 March this year, the extended State Budget Act of last year is in place. I tried to be brief, I know you're in a hurry to announce the Law, but these 737 proposals, if we vote them two minutes, are 1500 minutes, or 25 hours. I mean, I don't see that happening fast. We'd better take our time. We'd better make the necessary adjustments. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u696	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. There are lines to Mr. Dobrev from Krasimir Valchev and from Zhecho Stankov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u697	Mr. Dobrev, I do not agree with you that the number of proposals is an attestation for the adequacy of a budget. This budget is inadequate with one main thing, and it is that there is no income policy, or almost none, except for teachers, with double-digit inflation, which has all the prospects because of the crisis and the war to deepen. Notice the justifications for no income policy, one is that it will provoke inflation, we will enter an inflation cycle, to a much greater extent we will enter an inflation cycle. To a much greater extent, we can cross inflation if we have adequate compensation for increased energy prices. If they had listened to your proposal last year to make the component of the debt to society with negative value, today we would not have 4% higher inflation than in the European Union, energy inflation would not have penetrated the final prices. The main reason for inflation is the government's unwillingness to compensate in time and the sufficiently high prices of electricity. The energy. The other excuse that we won't give money to unreformed sectors. So we wait in a garden for everything to be okay, and then we take care of it. I mean, if we have fruit, then we'll... They insulted all people in this way, including the Minister of Agriculture just now, saying that no one has shown results in the last ten years. That's what the finance minister said, and we're not gonna make up for a 10% reduction in incomes today, because people don't deserve anything, they haven't worked in recent years. I understood his words that nothing has happened in recent years, even though a lot of people have done the job, even though their responsibility as governors... [[the President signals that time has run out]] [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u698	Mr. Valchev, the weather. Jeco Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u699	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Dobrev, what I did not hear in your statement that t. 5 on the agenda on which you and I, as an importer, are betting and we want to support 100% compensation in the same way as it was supported by the ERPs, to apply to municipalities, churches are not currently seeing it reflected in this budget. Moreover, the Chamber rejected it and did not allow it. What I also miss is that this budget should be wagered in addition to covering and compensation for staff, funds to implement Brussels' policies. Undoubtedly, one of the policies that needs to be achieved is the level of renewable energy. Let us not forget that it is as in electricity, as it is in biomass. In terms of biomass, I also expected you to take attitude. That's for you to decide. I personally missed these supporting points, which are very important and are part of the agenda of both the public and should be part of the agenda of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u700	Thank you. Is there a third line? Radomir Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u701	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dobrev, I would like to address you and make a friendly note. You said a lot of true things. What you said in the end was also true that this budget should now be stopped and returned to the Budget Committee and start reviewing it again, because it clearly cannot be a state budget in this situation anymore. You're thinking stately, unfortunately, because that logic will not be accepted, Mr. Dobrev. It will not be accepted this logic from the Chamber. Our colleagues will vote on the budget, vote on it as it is, all our proposals only stop them from voting on it. I do not know if you will agree with my opinion, but I think we should let them vote on it as quickly as possible, because this is the last excuse that we should now vote on a new budget and then see what happens. To allow them to vote on this budget as quickly as possible in order to begin to see the failure of this policy and that government, which will begin as soon as they adopt the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u702	Mr. Dobrev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u703	Dear colleagues, thank you for your comments. The procedure must be returned to the State Budget Act in the Budget Committee in order to correct this State Budget Act because, as you said, it is inadequate. We are trying to move quickly this budget. I myself speak for the first time in 22 members and speak only on the ground. Yes, there have been procedures from time to time, but in my opinion, they've been required by what I've seen in the room. Without slowing down and eating more of the time, I suggest that he return to the Budget Committee to bet buffers in connection with the war in Ukraine related to the price of electricity and the price of gas. Only today had the price of gas at one point jumped by over 50%. You never know how things are gonna turn out in the next few days. If we close the budgetary procedure, any budget corrections will take no less than two months to be implemented. If we don't put aside money for this kind of compensation now, there's no way that even the government can have it. The government has them because, in fact, high electricity prices fill the budget treasury through the financial results of energy enterprises. The expected profit of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" for this year, if things continue like this, is likely to amount to more than 3 billion. BGN, i.e. there is much more money for compensation than business needs. If adequate compensation were given and the price was compensated as for the ERPs, as Mr. Stankov said, that is, full compensation was given and compensated until the price of the regulated market, then we would not have this additional inflation that we currently have. It is not 4% above the EU average, because if we see the consumer basket, in the main food products, inflation is above 25%, and this is seen by every Bulgarian, going shopping in the store. Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u704	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. To speak, Mrs. Mihailova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u705	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Ministers gentlemen, colleagues! We are not in a position to support the budget, especially in its part.................. I take the opportunity that we are in a particular situation, that I also address the Minister. In policies, as a motivation you have described, you have recorded that you are fighting for sustainable energy development, and one of your main points there is total market liberalisation, including domestic consumers. Given the situation that we are in, we have been talking about it for years, but at the moment it is a very relevant topic, rather, it should be thinking about energy independence. I will also repeat some figures that we commented several times during the day, but today the price of gas by noon had jumped 19% compared to yesterday, and by 5.30, when I last checked, it was 57% growth. In such a situation, we believe that Bulgaria's overall energy development policy should change and think rather of the absolute energy independence of our country as part of our national security, given the situation we are in. A number of coal thermal plants in Europe have been closed. In recent years, their action has been replaced by gas. We are now seeing how this affects Europe, given that Europe is still dependent on gas imported from Russia. As we can see, the sanctions themselves that are being taken in this direction are not... they are some kind of butaphorical sanctions that he makes so that I do not deviate from the subject, but they are not related to what would hit Russia financially if these were the objectives, including the objectives of those present in this House, as it has become clear today. In this direction, I think that we, Bulgaria, should think about how to protect ourselves and not think about liberalization at this particular time, but think about the new nuclear capacities that you, by the way, had been set up as promises, not to oppose each other two projects of the nuclear power plant that we have, but to think about everything that we can realize. We can also use the environment created to keep our coal plants maximum, because they, as you all know, work with a local sulphur resource that makes us extremely independent. With regard to the differences in these policies that we find extremely important and important, I note to you that there is now an opportunity to review the direction in which we are moving in energy policies. And you announced today, not you personally, Mr. Minister, but the Prime Minister, that groups have been formed to overcome the risk that are starting hard work. Use, if these groups are comfortable in this direction and because one of the topics there is cybersecurity, perhaps you should reconsider at a time when different countries of ours, which have nothing to do with our independence, have a conflict, one of them to deal with the cybersecurity of our nuclear power plant We must also rethink this sovereignty of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u706	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Please, we are in the second vote, not at first, to discuss principle. - What's the line? Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u707	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, accept the fact that I have great respect for the National Assembly and that we are here shows exactly this. I've said a few times that we know our place. The ministers should come here and report to the National Assembly. This is the highest authority in the parliamentary republic. Allow me now and do not take my words as an example, but what is happening is absolutely unacceptable. You're making a mockery of parliamentaryism. I'm looking at you, colleagues. [[Returned to GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u708	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u709	You mock over 6 million Bulgarians who are waiting for this budget...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u710	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u711	...because good or bad in everyone's judgment, it helps with something of 6 million Bulgarians. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Dear MPs from GERB, take at least come out if you need the group, work out a single opinion. Listen to what you're saying within 15 minutes You're just your group: a lot of left-wing budget, a lot of money is spent, money is spent on a muck, it's going to increase inflation. The second: "No money is distributed, there is no income policy. " - Which of these two things is true? [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "Both!") Both!]] I ask you: did you support the increase in minimum wage, did you support the increase in motherhood, food vouchers, people with disabilities' money, 9 million to help farmers and not order? Did you support that? No! Then why are you saying there's no increase in income? You have not supported it, it is your political will, but to stop what is happening here. I'm making you a second offer. Center your thesis! Why we don't have a budget for so long, the government is late, you're putting in a budget only in February, it's going to be one criticism from April. In just two minutes is the next thesis by GERB: This budget should not be accepted, let us return it to the Commission and look at it from the beginning. What exactly do we do? Is it a problem that we're late on the budget, or is it better that he's not here, let's get him back, let's start over, so we can be two more months late. We'll stay here as long as we need to. It's our constitutional obligation. We will defend this budget because we are convinced that there are policies in it for people. Let's do this professionally and with mutual respect. You have these, fighting for some politics, doing it professionally and with mutual respect. Leave the contradictions with each other. Six and a half million people are waiting for something to happen in this budget, and you are sitting here, mostly addressing you, colleagues. [[Returned to GERB-SDS.]] We've been in all sorts of ways, and we've been your opposition, and now you're our opposition. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] The situation is very different at the moment. When you were in charge, we didn't have an energy crisis, we didn't have an economic crisis, we didn't have a social crisis of this magnitude, and since yesterday you know what's going on in the world, and what will be the consequences. You didn't, not because you ran well. Don't make me start with that. I'm trying to keep a good voice, though. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I can tell you, I can. Six million in Expo Dubai, 500 million for dams and one renovated. I can still keep going.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u712	Mrs. Ninova, let's get to the point, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u713	Yeah. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u714	Colleagues, please, quiet in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u715	I turn with respect, I call on us to reduce the debate to a professional discussion about the budget. We're here, listening, answering, arguing, but doing some work. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u716	Thank you. Zhecho Stankov for a line to Iskra Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u717	Mrs. Mihaylova, I don't agree with what you said. I want to tell you that this is an extremely right-wing budget, which does not give enough money and aid. That's what I'm trying to tell you. These aids, which did not reach the business in time, are currently not at stake. So what you will see and the energy poor, who sooner or later must be brought out in relation to the regulations and directives of the package - Clean energy for all the free market players - which I am sure Mr Svilenski will bring back all the others who are currently on the free market of the regulated because this has been declared several times. So this budget right now will in any case only pour oil into the fire and increase inflation. Right budget with insufficient funds for non-vibe users. We don't see anything aimed at domestic users either. I thank you for the expert debate in art. 21 of the budget, in which I dare say that we are actually concentrating with you, as part of the opposition, and with colleagues from the government, to discuss in detail a member under Article plus a paragraph, plus the policies that must implement those funds that are inside. I have taken the liberty of making a request, a recommendation to the Minister of Energy, in order to reduce the administrative burden within the Ministry, to redirect all the actions currently being carried out by the experts in the energy sector, who must take care of policies and not become a paying agency. So I hope for your understanding and understand that ultimately this right-wing budget will not help domestic consumers, on the one hand, for which we have to define which are the vulnerable group and, on the other hand, for those we have to define as energy poor to see sooner or later some figures against these two graphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u718	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. The second line is from Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u719	Ms. Mihailova, we have heard concrete proposals relating to the war in Ukraine, which require the return of this budget to the Budget Committee. I would like to point out once again that only the ruling parties have proposed 204 proposals for budget repairs before the war in Ukraine. After the war in Ukraine began, the finance minister and deputy prime minister said that this budget no longer corresponds to the world's realities, neither its economic growth nor inflation nor the other budget parameters are adequate today. Why, at 24,10 hours, do we adopt a budget that was proposed 204 times for a correction by the ruling majority before the war, and after the war in Ukraine was declared by the finance minister as inadequate to reality? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u720	Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u721	To the GERB gentlemen who replicated me. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today you were one of the people who voted for Bulgaria to accept sanctions in relation to the conflict. However, this will in no way help the subject we are discussing. I use Mr. Stankov's words in terms of energy poverty. There is something that is written in the policies motivating the budget, and there is: dealing with the endangered groups as a result of the introduction of the liberalised market. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, it may have been high time for us to learn this lesson, the government to stop causing problems, and even with the saying of these problems, to start looking for ways to solve them. There are two sentences in the first paragraph of this motivation, one of which says what we are going to do and the next, what problems we are going to create by doing this. Perhaps, use these groups that you have currently formed, and rethink for two months, I would not want to return anything to be considered, but there in 2 months we will be reunited on this topic anyway, think about it in this direction because it makes sense to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u722	Thank you. We're not bringing anything back for examination, and there's no such procedure anyway. Any other speeches? I can't see. There was a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u723	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the Council of Ministers! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct and it is on the occasion of the speech of a member of the Council of Ministers Mrs. Nino. Mrs. Ninova, and directly to you, you in exactly what role...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u724	No, to me. To me the procedure, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u725	To you, Mr. Chairman, the procedure is that you had to interrupt Mrs. Ninova's statement to the Deputy Prime Minister and member of the Council of Ministers, as it was neither in substance nor in relation to the paragraphs in question of the State Budget Act and was directed towards a certain political power. First of all, Mrs. Ninova, we didn't understand what role this was in, and that's why...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u726	To me, the procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u727	...you should have interrupted it, Mr. Chairman. Because if it is in the role of Deputy Prime Minister, we have the impression of the majority today that this majority should break its coalition agreement because it does not trust its own coalition. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u728	Mrs. Atanasova...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u729	If you do, ma'am, as a party leader, this tone cannot be held by any other parliamentary group but that part of your parliamentary group whose leader you are. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u730	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u731	And one last thing. If you think that's a tone you're holding at an indecent party meeting where you're excluding a member...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u732	Mrs. Atanasova, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u733	...of your party leadership, you're mistaken. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u734	Colleagues, please order in the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u735	Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u736	I understand your procedure. Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u737	If you please, Mr President, keep an eye on the rules of procedure, as well as on MPs who currently do not provide an atmosphere in the Chamber, you are therefore directly responsible for the conduct of the members of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u738	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova, I understand. I think that a very large part of the MPs abuse the fact that we are not interrupting for the purpose and otherwise the MPs even when they deviate from the subject. Maybe it's time we reconsider this approach. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u739	Dear Mr. President, you should have taken Mrs. Atanasova's floor away, as she has been sitting in this room for 12 hours and has not understood what is happening that today we have gathered to adopt a budget, and you have been harassing the budget all day yesterday, today, sabotaging the adoption of the budget. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] And when you were told in your eyes what you were doing with Bulgarian citizens, how you mocked 6 million Bulgarian citizens, it hurt. But that is what Bulgarian citizens see. [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u740	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u741	Why do you not want to accept the budget of the state?! [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Stop yelling. Easy, easy, stop yelling. Don't worry about the quorum. The budget will be adopted within today and be sure. No matter how much you sabotage it, no matter how much you practice, no matter how many speeches you make, no matter how many lines you make, the budget will be accepted and you will not pass the numbers, dear former rulers and for a long time standing in opposition from now on. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u742	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u743	So, I wish you a pleasant evening, a pleasant day after that, until the adoption of the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u744	Thank you. Minister Nikolov for speech. [[Loud noise.]] Mrs. Alexandrova, I can hear your voice from somewhere, please. Happy birthday, but you don't have to, please, let's keep the good tone. [[Applause.]] Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u745	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Happy birthday! I hope the next one is happier in a better environment. [[Laughter]] In today's situation, speaking with honest lies is a crime for me personally. And I'm going to say some of them alone. So far, we've heard that we're looking for predictability during a war on price products, which, if anyone could explain to me how it happens, I'd be very pleased. [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]] We'll get to you, Mr. Dobrev, don't worry. We'll talk about green energy, no problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u746	Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u747	We also heard that it was running after the wind, that is, a payment must be made before a real expense has been incurred before there is an invoice. We have also heard speeches about components for calculating natural gas. I will not recall who made the latest changes in the way of calculus and expenditure for Bulgarian citizens. We also heard a particular figure of 2000 euros, which yesterday was quoted in just one tweet. I am pleased that these tweets are read and quoted by a former minister, Deputy Minister, and I apologise, as well as a member of regulatory organisations in Europe. I'm only going to make one difference between a weighted average and a arithmetical price so you can understand it and stop this compensation thing. If the person standing next to you eats only pork, and you only eat cabbage, medium-sized eat pork with cabbage. However, weighted is something else when there must be compensation and that is why it is done. [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]] We'll get to you, Mr. Dobrev, don't worry, I told you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u748	Mr. Minister, I'm asking you on the budget...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u749	Yeah, on the budget. Compensations include two components - the costs of electricity, whether natural gas or electricity - are formed on the basis of two components, which you can see them on each charge - volume and price. The price, if you can see it in Europe and compare it after the compensations and before the compensations, will draw the conclusions where Bulgaria is located. In terms of volume, you can also draw a lot of conclusions back in time, why we are three and a half times more energetic than everyone in the European Union. On the fact that there are no adequate compensations, I assume that colleagues in the coalition government of BSP will envy you, but that we should leave it for the next budget. Mr. Dobrev, you yourself said that the price of natural gas was 10 euros per megawatt hour. Where is it? Do you know how many years ago it was 10 euros per megawatt hour? I know how much it is, if you want, I'll show you on the phone later. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Currently the price is 119 euros, Mr. Nankov. Unlike the one sitting next to you, the current... Three years ago, Mr. Nankov. Three years! Not yesterday, it's protocol. Thus - the adjustments to long-term contract formulas can be very long-term to quote them - I do not see the point. For inflationary elements too, because it is really time to decide whether the increase in monetary mass leads to inflation or not. You have good colleagues who have graduated from pretty good universities, with some of them we have been and colleagues in them. I would also be happy when you form or criticize a budget, to put in the same effort as you consider the Bulgarian Stock Exchange and the way in which you trade, as well as the components in electricity and gas. Regarding the level of renewables, they do not need to be subsidised only, it needs to ease regulation, so I guess you Mr. Dobrev, you know very well. And because we are in the situation that is today and that we have to deal with a lot of things, this will be my last speech, and the Energy Commission will again talk with many details. Thank you. [[Applause in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u750	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is a procedure by Lyubomir Karimanski, by Hristo Gazhev, by Alexander Ivanov, Temenuzhka Petkova, Zhecho Stankov and Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u751	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think everything has been said on the subject of these 3 articles. So I propose to the National Assembly an end to the debate on these three members. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change "ISN, "BSP for Bulgaria ", DPS and Reenactment.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u752	Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u753	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers, honourable Members! Mr. Karimanski, it has not been said and to tell you why it has not been said that a member of the cabinet is taking the opportunity not to mention any future measure to non-bit consumers that you have to bet in the budget. [[Noise in the room.]] A measure to domestic consumers that you have to bet in the budget. On the other hand, when a person has nothing to say, he makes personal attacks.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u754	Is that a reverse opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u755	Inverse opinion, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u756	Okay, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u757	So, Mr. Karimansky, there's a lot more to be said at the point. In connection with the financing, the same effect will be obtained if you do not withdraw your proposal, which was also received during the budget update last year, in which there was no adequate support for non-domestic and domestic consumers. Let me remind you that this has led to a moratorium on domestic consumers and late aid to non-domestic consumers. If we continue in the same way, there is no way for the minister to understand that running after the problem is not to calculate the aid earlier, but to at least give it every month, which seems to happen perhaps within a month.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u758	Mr. Stankov, we understand your position. Let's continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u759	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your patience and for your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u760	Thank you. Just a second, I'll write it down for the procedures. Nothing, I'll write it down: Hristo Gazhev, Temenuzhka Petkova, Alexander Ivanov. And 20 minutes ago, he had just finished his speech list. Did Stanislav Balabanov have one or not? Okay. Other comments, I think, have not been claimed either way. No, I didn't, Mr. Svilensky, I didn't stop it. So I am putting an end to it because there are no statements at all. But the procedures, of course, will be heard. Hristo Gajev goes first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u761	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm taking the procedure with one request. When you give the floor to MPs for speech or for procedure, sometimes it may be appropriate, especially in the later hours like now, to announce the parliamentary groups, so that there are no confusions from example tired MPs or guests of the House who cannot follow the debate when they are speaking. I give an example that, in principle, members of the Council of Ministers cannot see the two televisions, where it is written who is the speaker and which parliamentary group. Maybe it'd be really nice to put on a monitor to guide them there, too. Because it turns out that we had two speeches that were related to the budget of the Ministry of Energy, the Minister of Energy responded to them, but there was a lyrical deviation which was transferred as guilt to GERB, and it was not actually on GERB's speeches at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u762	Okay, we'll think about this monitoring procedure. Temenuzhka Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u763	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is also in the manner of conduct and it is related to the speech of Minister Nikolov. Since Minister Nikolov, in his speech, in 80% of his speech, did not speak essentially on the issues raised in connection with the debate under art. 21 and did not answer the basic question that was asked. And he, Mr. Nikolov, is related to the fact that, after March 2022, the budget of the Ministry of Energy has not provided funds for compensation. Prices are about to go higher and higher. You didn't think about the business, you didn't think about the non-bit consumers, the municipalities, the hospitals. There is no compensation provided, this is the big question and tell us what you think about this topic, because the year does not end on 31 March. And we say for a reason that this is a budget for the second quarter of 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u764	Mrs. Petkova, please, there are two more procedures that will most likely be in the same spirit - lines to the Minister in essence. Mr. Nankov, there are speeches, in this connection lines, but none from the place. Please. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u765	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Members of the Council of Ministers! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner in which you are directed. A few minutes ago, a parliamentary group chairman with very serious parliamentary experience tried to blame it on the fact that, if you see, MPs from the opposition, who have their own budget proposals, were speaking, and that was to delay the adoption of the budget. Allow me, Mr. Chairman, to ask you to ask your colleagues from this tribune when they speak and make such inaccuracies... See the chairman of a parliamentary group with serious parliamentary experience of what he is trying to do. Yes, Mr. Svilensky, I will quote and quote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u766	I understand, Mr. Ivanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u767	No, no, Mr. Chairman. I'll finish my procedure, I apologize. Mr. Svilensky is trying to distract me, but it's not gonna work. Mr. Svilensky will be reminded yesterday of whom the meeting was interrupted, the failure to fill the quorum in this Chamber. Mr. Svilensky tried to blame the opposition. To remind Mr Svilensky with his serious parliamentary experience who is mainly responsible for providing a quorum during the meetings and according to him the so important budget under consideration. And also, if the budget at issue is so important, ask Mr Svilenski, if he agrees with the Council of Ministers, why have the ruling majority tabled between first and second readings in this budget 204 proposals and not spoken to them? So, my procedure is entirely with you, Mr. Chairman. When Mr. Svilensky speaks from this tribune and speaks such things that are not related to reality and truth, interrupt him. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u768	Thank you. And now in my two minutes, I'm just gonna say... [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Svilensky, Mr. Svilensky, don't stand there. Mr. Ivanov, please come back. Mr. Ivanov, get back in place. One second, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Manev, please. Colleagues! Mr. Manev, please don't interfere in this conversation either, which shouldn't have happened anyway, please. I'm kindly asking you to... I told him too, I told Mr. Svilensky, come on. We'll see where there was no quorum, and I've also ordered a reference to who attended the votes. We're listening to Delyan Dobrev, the last procedure recorded is this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u769	Mr. Chairman, thank you. I promise not to mention Mr. Svilensky, so we don't have to heat things up any more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u770	Mr. Dobrev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u771	My procedure is for you. I would like you to pay attention to the ministers who take the floor to say that, according to our Rules, they must speak on the subject and answer some of the questions raised, not explain to us what pork with cabbage is. If for some ministers energy is reduced to pork with cabbage, for those present in this room this is not the case. I was hoping the minister would explain what he did when he went to Azerbaijan.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u772	But we're not at a hearing, Mr. Dobrev, so he can explain to us about Azerbaijan.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u773	Well, he had questions for him. Neither the compensation, nor the gas, nor the answer to anything. On behalf of a parliamentary group, I'd like a 30-minute recess.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u774	Take 15 minutes off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u775	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. In relation to upcoming votes, on the basis of art. 46, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall examine the quorum. Please register. Atanas Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u776	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u777	Tsvetelina Zarkin? Abort registration! [[Noise and lines.]] What does that mean? Whoa, whoa, whoa, One minute and one second. [[(Radio.) Laughter from GERB-SDS.)]] It's between 30 seconds and 1 minute! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Guys, don't do this! Registered 98 MPs in the hall and 1 online, total 99. There's no quorum. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u778	Name check! Name check!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u779	In the absence of a quorum...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u780	Run a name check!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u781	We've done it through the computerised system, colleagues, in a sense, different options. [[Heckling]] On the basis of art. 46, para. 4, I will first continue the meeting, but only discussions will be held without votes. The vote is scheduled for the next meeting, tomorrow, at 9:00 p.m., and we'll start with the vote. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "Tomorrow is 26th! "]] Yeah, I'm sorry about today, after 8:00 p.m., at 9:00 p.m. I said, for the next meeting, I don't think I said tomorrow, but okay. [[Definitions of MP Mustafa Karadaye with the Chairman.]] The votes will be scheduled for the next meeting, which will take place today at 9 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We'll continue our discussions. From the Budget and Finance Committee, Mr. Karimanski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u782	Article 23 supposed by the MP Iskren Mitev and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-136. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Venko Sabrutev, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Ganev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Member of the National Assembly. Rumen Gechev, made in the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. [[National Representative Halil Letifov wants the floor.]] You can't interrupt me now! The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. (1) Accepts the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for 2022 as follows: (According to the table in the Report.) (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budgetary programmes as follows: (According to the table in the Report.) (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2022 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2022 by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works as follows: (According to the table in the Report.) (4) Confirms the targeted capital costs for the purchase of property owned by the Bulgarian Industrial Association - Sofia, located in the city of Sofia total of 7 210.8 thousand. lv. Article 24 supposed by the National Representative Plamen Abrovski. The Commission does not support the proposal, so I must read it: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 (a) in row II, the cost of the number (b) of row II This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 1.1 The funds should be increased so as to allow an increase in the funds for the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the Forest Executive Agency by 10%; (c) of row III "Budget relationships (transfers) - (+/-) " and so on. 1 Budget budget budget to increase the funds so as to allow an increase in funds for the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the Forest Executive Agency by 10%. [[National Representative Halil Letifov wants the floor.]] You're in my way now! You're in my way!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u783	And you're in my way!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u784	No, you're bothering me now. You can't talk to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u785	I wanted procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u786	Later! Waiting for 51 members, then. "2." In para. 2: (a) t. 3 "Politicals in the field of forest conservation and increase and forest use' is replaced by "30 281,4'; b) of The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-45: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in row I, the amount increased by 55 833,80 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (b) in row II the cost is increased by 153 403,3 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (c) of row 1. The amount of current expenditures is increased by 146 403,3 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (d) of row 1.1. The amount is increased by 106 119.7 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (e) of row 2 lv. (f) of line III "Budget relationships (transfers) - (+/-) " the sum increased by 97 569.5 thousand. lv. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. The following amendments shall be made: (a) the amount increased by 117 608.4 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (b) of row 3 "Politicals in the area of conservation and increase of forests', the amount increased by 33 674,3 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (c) the amount increased by 2 120,60 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (d) of row lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Desislava Taneva and Krasimir Valchev. The proposal is not supported by the Commission: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24 para. 1, in line "III." Budgetary relationships (transfers) - (+/-) s) the following amendments shall be made: 2.1. c. 1 "Budgets' with the central budget. The number "seven-seven-six-six-three' is replaced by "six-four-six-six-three-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. 2.2. c. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 2.3. In t.2.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2.4.c. 2.1.1. For the Agricultural Academy, the number.32 310.0. is replaced by.39 310.0. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in point II (b) in point II 1 "Current expenditures' is replaced by the number (c) in item II This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 1.1 "Personal" is replaced by "88 387,64"; (d) in item III "Budget relationships (transfers) - (+/-) " the number (e) in item III "Budget relationships (transfers) - (+/-) ", p. "the number of "seven-seven-six-six-three-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. (f) in point III "Budget relationships (transfers) - (+/-) ", p. 2 Budget relations with other budgetary organisations (+/-)......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2.1.1 for the Agricultural Academy (g) Relevant changes to art. 1, para. 2. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 4 The budget b) of line The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniel Petrov and a group of MPs, No 123: Art. 24, para. 1 is amended as follows: - in the table under art. 24, para 1, Section III - in t. 2. "Budget relations with other budgetary organisations" (+/-) the number..32 310,0... 38 - in t. 2.1. Transfers granted (-), the number - in t. 2.1.1. For the Agricultural Academy, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24. Art. 25. (1) Adopts the budget of the Ministry of Transport and Communications for 2022 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u787	For a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u788	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We would like to ask you, on behalf of the GERB-SDS parliamentary group, to call a representative of the Ministry of Finance at least a Deputy Minister. That's too bad, because this budget we're looking at... [[(Reply from.. Continue ……]] Ah, great, good! Well, finally! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u789	Please order, colleagues, please silence!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u790	We have this problem that was identified just now. This is the first time we have the wrong budget. [[noise and lines from.. Continue Change............................]] Your medium-term framework does not correspond to the income in excise duties. I'll tell you why. Because in your medium-term framework you have invested 120 million additional revenue from an increase in the rate of tobacco products, however, there was no such increase in the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. I want to ask why. 1.5 has an extra 120 million in excise revenue? This budget does not correspond to tax rates and tax laws. You want us, and right now, my colleagues and I have been talking about adopting a wrong budget at first. There has never been such a thing in Bulgarian history! On top of that, you have a difference in the medium-term framework in part two and third. In one place you put an increase in the budget of 120 million of revenue and excise duties, and in the other place there are 100 million. There's no way you can raise that money because there's no such rate. So I'm going to ask a first representative of the Ministry of Finance to come by and explain why we're being offered the wrong budget, where the bills don't come out. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u791	Thank you. We found the discussion on members from 23 to 27 inclusive. To make a statement, "Petya Avramova. "
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u792	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let us return to the comments on the proposed budget at second reading. I will use the opportunity to make a statement by bringing together my proposals, which have been made in other members of the budget. I'll try to be as brief as possible. This budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has been adopted without a management programme because what the coalition agreement says does not correspond in any way to the budget which the MRDP has prepared for 2022. There is no reform in the next one, and there is no reform in this budget, a budget for three months with an ambitious figure placed in the capital expenditures of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. An ambitious budget of over 2 billion, laid down in the policy of maintaining, modernizing and building infrastructure, and I think it is a number that is set and that is not feasible for 2022. To invest those over 2 billion. BGN, requires a very serious administrative effort which cannot be realized in the remaining months of this year. Firstly, because there are no contracts and there is no possibility for these funds to be implemented in real construction activities. Of course, there is some chance that some of them will be paid off, and for activities that ended in 2021. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u793	Colleagues, I beg you to be quiet in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u794	...from the majority management you have reservations about the costs incurred in the Agency's capital programme "Travel Infrastructure" because you are using this item in the budget as a depot, as a cash register from which you are taking funds to finance other items and other activities in the budget. In this budget we should also see the policy, which is related to regional development, we should also see the policy related to the development of Bulgarian municipalities and the financing of activities for the development of settlements. Of course, there is no such policy in this budget. Bulgarian municipalities did not receive adequate support for the situation. Infrastructural sites, which are planned to improve settlements, cannot be financed by the municipalities' own resources. Over the years, they received targeted funds from the state budget and managed to implement sites and projects that are important to people in these settlements. This process, colleagues, must not stop. You have declared that this budget will be programmed and that projects will be financed. In this budget, there are no funds to finance projects of municipalities. I hope that in the budget update such funds will be laid down, and in these settlements there are Bulgarian citizens who are your voters. They expect good roads, expect renovated streets, pavements, squares, schools, buildings for public use. Investments lead to growth. We should note that as you predict capital expenditure in the state budget to be realised by state structures, there should also be an adequate increase in the capital expenditure of the Bulgarian municipalities in the same way. So people can feel it best, that's the way in which these projects are implemented to include exactly the small and medium-sized business that you are talking about wanting to take care of. We hope that you, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, will pay attention to all the proposals that I and my colleagues from the GERB-SDS Group have made in art. 51 with real projects to be financed and implemented. The funds that I and a colleague of mine, the national representative of Vratsa District, have also depended on your decision to finance projects of the municipalities of Vratsa district. In the proposal we have made are projects that the mayors of the settlements have provided us, and I believe that this experiment, which is a budget for three months, will be updated and the settlements will receive adequate funding for the implementation of their projects. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u795	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Indeed, one minute over time was, but thank you for your statement on the substance. Are there any lines to Petya Avramova? I can't see. Nastimir Ananiev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u796	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In fact, my speech has to do with an inexcusability. During the discussion of the budget in the Commission, it was very clearly discussed, discussed, confirmed by the Ministry of Finance and voted that the framework that will be in the budget is three years and not one year old. So I want to make a legal and technical or editorial change as you wish. On the basis of art. 80, para. Two...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u797	Just a second, Mr. Ananiev. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u798	Art. 23, para. 3, p. 1 - Maximum amount of expenditure commitments that can be made in 2022
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u799	On page 110, yes. 3, p. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u800	The maximum amount of the commitments for expenditure that can be made in 2022 and the number of the commitment to be replaced by the maximum amount of the commitments for expenditure that can be made in 2022 and the number of the commitment to be replaced by the amount of the commitment to be made in 2022. This is legal and technical because it has gone through the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u801	It's a billion when we put the thousands up. That's true, but this number here without the thousands on top is in millions. Okay, I'll put it in a number by number, Mr. Ananiev. 5 108 280.4. Tell me again only about the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u802	At the Commission, this thing was discussed and voted on. It was confirmed by the Ministry of Finance and therefore I am doing this editing to be correctly reflected in the budget on the basis of art. 80, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u803	I get it, thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Are there any lines to Nastimir Ananiev? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Nikolai Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u804	Mr. Chairman, I won't take up too much time with the people's representation. I'd like to bring some clarity. I think it's almost 2.5 billion. lv. is the increase in the commitments of the expenditure ceilings that the MRB may take over in this budgetary year. I think another figure was reflected in the Committee on Regional Policy... [[Reply from.. We continue the Change.]] Wait a minute. I am trying to help the President of the Commission because he is not motivated by why and what this requires. I'm gonna ask him that question, but to fit in both minutes, I'm gonna get to the point. I'm going to try to motivate him and ask him one specific question, but to fit in both minutes, I'm going to get to the point. First of all, this is not an editorial proposal. We're talking billions of levs here, and we're not talking 2, 3, 4, 5 levs. This, in our view, was to be reflected in the Report, as of course, was also adopted by the Commission and not by the stand to comment and to make a proposal, in this case in the face of the President of the Regional Commission Nastimir Ananiev that this is an editorial proposal which concerns several billion leva. And here the question may be for all of you. [[Heckling]] We're not talking about millions. We're talking about billions. And to make, of course, an informed decision about what is behind this proposal. This should not be an amount to be spent in the framework of the 2022 budget, and this is an amount based on the estimates I suppose the Office has made, and here perhaps the President of the Commission should give more clarity about the projects to be implemented within the next two to three years in order to be able to conclude these contracts... [[Heckling]] I know it is, but let me make this clear not from me, but from those people who are making the proposal so that they can really justify it in order to make an informed decision. It is not a bad proposal, but for us, I repeat: this is not an editorial proposal, this is a proposal essentially as voted in the Commission, so will be reflected in the Second Reading Report. Mr. Genov, it's not funny. This concerns several billion leva. And I say again: this is a very serious matter, because predictability has been done back in the years, as most major infrastructure projects are implemented not for a year. Two, and not for at least one budget year is to be able to really be legally spent these funds under the Public Finance Act is to make commitments that will accordingly be secured by resources within the next budget years outside of what we are currently debating. So if this is the proposal, the mistake may indeed be that this is not an editorial proposal, but it is a correct proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u805	Thank you, Mr. Nankov, for the line. Any other lines to Nastimir Ananiev? Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u806	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ananiev, we just read on t. One, you're making an editorial proposal, from what I understand. Maximum amount of expenditure commitments that can be made in 2022. You increase them from 2 billion. The Commission Eighty-five-nine-nine to how many billion?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u807	The Commission 108 million.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u808	So these costs are only for 2022? [[Heckling]] That's what it says here. Within a year, that kind of cost isn't acceptable?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u809	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u810	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Nankov! If it is legal and technical, let it be legal and technical, I have no problem with it, but anyone who has been in the Commission can look, see what is spoken, because, personally, I asked the question to the representative of the Finance, who actually confirmed the commitment itself. And this is the answer to your question, in fact, that these are commitments and they are for a three-year framework as a whole. [[Heckling]] It says: engagements, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u811	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u812	One second, Mr. Ibryamov. Just to be clear with Mr. Bayram. The text is: the maximum amount of expenditure commitments that can be made in 2022. [[Heckling]] I apologize for interfering with your dialogue on the ground, but just so we're clear. There was a request for a procedure from Jayhan Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u813	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At this late or early hour, of course, we are beginning to think more adequately and think of things that have been made, such as factual errors or some spelling errors in the Committee on Regional Development. I'm reading, Mr. Chairman, because I'm addressing you, this editorial amendment that Mr. Nastimir Ananiev did: ? (3)................................................................... Confirms maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that can be made in 2022 and maximum amounts for new expenditure obligations that can be accumulated in 2022 by the Ministry itself. Nowhere is it said that this is a three-year forecast, anywhere like this. 1 of para. 3 is the maximum amount of expenditure commitments that can be made in 2022 and the sum of two billion and something, respectively, is that correct? That's right. Mr. Nastimir Ananiev comes out with a letter he received from someone and makes an editorial amendment, which is essentially. I understand that you want to increase the size, but anyway you boast that July will make an update, and whether it will be you, that is another matter. So please don't at this late hour. Either we interrupt the meeting and tomorrow morning a little more clear mind to come and continue, or we really have our debates, to reason and accept then tomorrow morning, or this morning later, and to vote on the proposals that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u814	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. We're gonna vote tomorrow anyway, and today we're just gonna... It's okay, we automatically recorded your time. Nikolai Nankov this time for a speech or for a little exchange of speakers from the group? [[Heckling]] Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u815	First Denitsa Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u816	First Denitsa Nikolova, come in, Mrs. Nikolova. After that, "Alyzan Jehovah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u817	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, my assessment and analysis of the proposed budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for 2022 is that this is the least regional budget and I will tell you why. There are no ambitions in terms of how we will conduct regional policy in the country, and there are no funds at stake in the implementation of regional policy reform. In order to implement regional policy reform, we will most likely need to review the country's administrative territorial division after the last census of the National Statistical Institute. Apart from that, of course, we need to do a new re-regioning of the country's statistical regions. This will inevitably lead to a reform that will require its means. Note, however, that in the proposed budget for second reading in the policy for integrated development of the regions to achieve growth and improve the quality of the living environment there are funds of just over three million leva. This is absolutely insufficient to conduct regional policy in the country even more with a long-term horizon. Moreover, you aim at 4.8% growth for 2022, and you bet in policies precisely for integrated development of the regions just over three million levs. The second part on which I would like to draw attention is that a large part of the funds for the implementation of the country's regional policy are focused on the financial instruments financed by the European Union. Over 6 billion. lv. they are actually waiting for the European Commission's approval in connection with the implementation of the future regional programme, with the implementation of cross-border programmes, with the implementation of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan. In reality, however, not a single lev of these funds will most likely come by the end of the year at the Regional Ministry precisely for the implementation of the development policy of the regions. So in this direction, it is very strange to me how will we adopt a budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works without resources to conduct regional policy? In fact, in fact, all the capital expenditure that is set in the budget at present focuses solely on the renewal of roads in the country's territory and the investment related to the water sector. Yes, but we are not talking about the Ministry of Roads and the Ministry of Water Sector, we are talking about the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. So in this direction he will say that this is the least regional budget, the most ambitious budget related to the implementation of the country's regional policy. For this year there will be no target investment related precisely to the support of the regions in the country, to the reduction of imbalances, to balanced territorial development, and this will inevitably lead to a deepening of imbalances, and among all settlements we will not, of course, be able to improve the quality of life of the people in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u818	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] For a line? Nastimir Ananiev for a replica.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u819	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Nikolova, I agree with maybe half the analysis you read. I do not agree with the conclusions and I will tell you why: you have made a very good statement, but you said it will not happen. It's gonna happen. The point is that before we get to those conclusions that you summarized, we should get, first of all, the official data on population census, which will most likely be ready in October. I will remind you that we have an update in the middle of the year, so the plan that you have set out about will happen, the point is that we need the specific figures to be able to make the correct regional adjustment according to the census information and, of course, the other economic and financial state of municipalities and everything else. I would also like to mention, as you have said roads and water, remember that the budget also provides 30% for the capital costs of all municipalities in the whole territory. So it's not just about roads and plumbing. That's my line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u820	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Are there any other lines to Denitsa Nikolova? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u821	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev, for making a line. With regard to the implementation of regional policy and data from NSI, there are currently preliminary data. At the very least, you can start discussions with stakeholders in order to be able to form the roadmap, which is actually laid down in the medium-term framework for the implementation of regional policy and the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. It is unclear why this roadmap will be made in 2023. This map should already be made 2022, all the more so that it is prepared within the unit dealing with regional policy and should rather be updated, even if it should not be done again. So in this direction, I would tell you that they have sufficient preparation in the Ministry to enable both the Road map and regional policy as next steps, such as a long-term development policy, to be implemented. As regards the capital costs for municipalities, which are laid down in art. 51. Well, if you make some good estimates on all the data you have bet, you will find that these funds are extremely insufficient and that within each municipality you have an increase of the order of 200 BGN, if I am not mistaken, there was a municipality in Burgas, I think Karnobat, so in this direction I will tell you that these are extremely insufficient funds to conduct regional policy. If you will not have European funds, I can clearly tell you that you are doomed to failure. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u822	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Alyzan Yahova for the next speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u823	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My speech relates to the proposal of the DPS parliamentary group to increase the budget of the Agricultural Academy by 15%, which is about 4.8 million in absolute terms. lv. Since the beginning of 2023 Bulgaria will implement a reformed common agricultural policy. It, apart from being more sustainable, more modern, will also be more innovative. The new agricultural policy has one cross-sectoral objective and it is linked to modernisation of agriculture and rural areas by stimulating digitalisation, innovation and knowledge. Farmers will be encouraged to seek access to scientific knowledge and will be provided with such scientific knowledge, which means that research and development will be at every stage of agricultural production and processing, production techniques, pest control, animal diseases, climate change and then market implementation. This means that the role of the Agricultural Academy will be extremely important, as it is the only specialized research organization in Bulgaria in the sector of................................................................................... One year after the European Commission approved Bulgaria's Strategic Plan for Agriculture and Rural Development, we need to do two main things as a Member State. The first thing is to create a national CAP network that will actively involve researchers. The second thing is the construction of knowledge and innovation systems, which are part of advisory services, this is one of the main interventions of the new strategic plan. The increase proposed in the budget of the Agricultural Academy is 774 thousand. BGN, which provides only an increase in the minimum wage, which will not, however, ensure the overcoming of the serious differences between the remuneration of the scientific specialists at the Agricultural Academy compared to the same specialists of the same rank in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and in higher education institutions. For information only, the salary of an assistant at the Agricultural Academy is BGN 840, while in higher education institutions is BGN 1300. We therefore propose an increase in the Academy's budget, which is mainly to be used to raise wages, thus fulfilling ICJ Decree No 371 of December 2020 on equalising the salaries of specialists and scientists of one degree. I hope that this proposal of the DPS will be supported. I would also like to address my fellow Members on the left, to be consistent with their interests, their support, as on 4 November 2020 in the Committee on Agriculture they also want an increase in the budget of the Agricultural Academy precisely to raise wages. I just want to tell you one more thing that according to the World Bank data Bulgaria is in the last place investment in research and is even more difficult to keep young researchers in custody. Only 11% of those working at the Agricultural Academy are up to 35 years old. I hope you will support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u824	Are there any lines to Mrs. Yahova? To make a statement, Nikolai Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u825	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll bring it back to art. 23 The budget of MRRB, one of the largest investment budgets in the proposed project. Here is our astonishment why the Deputy Prime Minister of Regional Development and Public Works is not here among us. It's a late hour, it's clear, but we are still debating one of the most important budgets related to your government's capital and investment programme. It is important to say that a good budget, apart from a balanced budget, is the one that is feasible and realistic in the course of the budget year. Believe me, you will see very soon that this budget that you have bet is a huge balloon. A huge budget of over 2 billion. 300 million. lv. for capital expenditure, almost as much as for road infrastructure and if you do not implement the projects that we have launched, to finance activities that will be carried out within calendar 2022 on them. You, by the way, have staked a large part of these projects in the draft budget, you will not be able to absorb 30% of the capital costs. Believe me, I will be a prophet perhaps and I will tell you that over a billion and 200 million of these bets will not be used, but will be redirected to the update on other activities. I am convinced that the Finance Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev knows this very well and leaves a huge buffer. The second very important topic. Thunder-proclaimed campaigns, priorities that have gone into your management program, among other things, in the programme of one of the parties mandate bearers in PP 13 pages of your presentation, there you have placed five bridges on the Danube and one above Varna Lake and under the Balkan Mountains. You fellow Members have broken up your management program, your coalition agreement with your first budget. Not a single bridge over the Danube, even in front of project studies, preparatory activities or other procedures and what we started as a procedure, design even traded, you have signed a contract that we have, by the way, placed with European funding. But since you don't have a financial framework yet, you don't have a partner approval agreement from the Operational Programme "Transport" you bet the first payments 2022 from the budget. One more question is very interesting: at what price will you build? Believe me, colleagues, this topic is very interesting. All indications are not the time to speak today, and it is almost 2:00 in the morning, but next week we will give you concrete examples of specific projects that have already been agreed by your government, where the unit prices are not just 30. 40% higher, such as the votes we hear from the construction workers' Chamber, and we have single activities in contracts concluded by you, at times higher single prices than those that we have held 2018. So what do you suggest? From the same much, but in times higher prices, that is, with a much larger resource less built, rehabilitated kilometers and you will indeed see. I hope that you are making a conscious choice, but you will be convinced very soon that these comments that we are making now, I know that you will vote on the budget, will surprise most of you. I wish you success and indeed such a budget I think that its least realistic objectives for 2022 will not be met, does not deserve our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u826	Thank you, Mr. Nankov. - What's the line? I can't see. To speak, Desislava Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u827	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! My speech is to motivate the proposal under art. 24, which we have entered from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, with No 47-254-04-45, and the other one is No 47-254-04-86, two proposals are because I am a contributor to both I would like to ask you to support them. I'll start with the second one. The second proposal has the same theme as Mrs. Jehovah's proposal. It concerns an increase in the budget of the Agricultural Academy by 7 million. lv. The motives are exactly the same. Practically as proposed the project will currently leave the salaries of researchers at the Agricultural Academy the lowest of any other unit in the agriculture system. Provided that the Agricultural Academy outside its current functions and activities becomes also a key link in the new strategic plan for the new programming period with regard to the transfer of knowledge between farmers. Next, I would also like to repeat that the consistent policy of one of the parties in the coalition, which is now ruling, has always been about increasing this budget. I will ask for consistency and support of these proposals. Their offer is $4.8 million. BGN, said the colleague, we've offered 7 million. BGN, according to the vision of the scientists themselves at the Agricultural Academy. The next proposal is on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. First, I would like to start again with the thesis that the adoption of the budget, as proposed in the part of three units currently under the legislation in force, is part of the structure of the Ministry of Finance, namely BABB, IAG and the certifying authority of the European Agricultural Funds, can in practice lead to a partial non-constitutionality of the adopted budget in this part. This is in direct contradiction with the Public Finance Act and, on this basis, many initially put proposals into the project were dropped. In the proposal made, we have reflected this vision. It was also reflected in the proposal under art. 1. Next on the budget of the Ministry of Education, we have also reflected our view on a proposal to increase income in the system. There is no income policy in the proposed draft budget. We have proposed an increase in the budget in the part of the staff income to 20%. Especially in recent years, and given the inflation incomes in the system, in some units such as BABBH are lagging behind the incomes of this type of specialist in the private sector. In view of the inflation in which we are in the last months, the forecasts for then, the shortage of such specialists, which is also a major problem for the private sector. In the private sector, they can afford not to have income ceilings and to bring in such specialists from abroad. The Bulgarian state, unfortunately, as income levels we are far from such movements.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u828	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Are you for a line, Mrs. Kirova? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u829	Mrs. Taneva, I'm sorry, maybe because of the late hours, but I couldn't understand you. What's this about? Partially, what you said was unconstitutional. Is it possible, in all legal courts, that not only here in this House, representatives of the majority in general, could you assume that there are such opportunities in the budget? And if you could just explain to me what you mean. I really couldn't understand you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u830	Any other lines? Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u831	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We have clarified this in detail during the review of the budget at first reading and under art. 1. Yes, it is our opinion that before adopting the budget in this form as a structure of the agricultural system, several laws which govern this reform should have been debated, examined and voted in Parliament, if it is, of course, adopted, namely the discharge of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the Forest Executive Agency and the Executive Agency "Sertifying Audit of European Agricultural Funds'. These bills are not even in public discussion yet. But even if they were, the letter of the law, the principle of parliamentaryism, transparency, public debate required that these debates had passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u832	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Here you are, Mr. Letifov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u833	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will speak on the budget of the Ministry of Transport and I will take this opportunity to say also about our proposals which we have made in art. 50, and further down in art. 107. The Ministry of Transport has a large part of the problems that have grown in the transport sector, entirely as a sector. We have been announced that serious reforms will be carried out in the Bulgarian State Railways sector, or in the railway, in the railway transport, and we expect this year the service to be improved, such as quality, speed, financial result. Of course, the rest of the transport needs to be developed as well as the air, sea, land or road transport, which is very seriously affected not only by the pandemic but also by the crisis that has occurred as a whole. Most of the settlements and municipalities have a broken transport scheme or none at all. Transporters say that in over 200 settlements there is no transport at all. We think there's a lot more of them. Most of the municipalities do not have transport at all, and therefore we have made concrete proposals below in art. 50, in line 2, the number 50,000 becomes 100,000, or we have offered 50 million additional subsidies that are needed for carriers. We've also made a new proposal, a new order to make order 3 so far. In line 3, we have proposed for the extra 85 million long-distance bus lines, which, honourable Members, if you do not support, will actually support the crisis in the bus transport sector to deepen. Why am I saying this thing? Because you need to get a little more into the details of this problem, which there is in bus and coach transport not only in the railway, but in general the transport scheme is broken. It is not connected to each other, it is disturbed for small settlements, remote, weakly populated, high-mountain, in general and the long-distance transport scheme. It is important to support them, it is important that you understand that we are actually risking being left without this transport. Why? First, fuel increases every day. Most of the buses used for urban transport and short distances are on methane. Methane's gone up a couple of times. The salary of drivers who are in bus transport is the lowest. They choose, of course, to move into heavy goods transport and this depopulation continues. On the other hand, the problems of heavy transport after the so-called "Plan's" entry into force or the package "Mobility" is the other feather on which we will experience enormous difficulties. Therefore, honourable Members, I ask you to support our proposals further down in art. 50, which you promise you will do in July, but one help is important, first, as size, second, to be timely. It is therefore important to support these funds that we have now offered to give bus transport a chance for passenger transport to survive, but not only for the carriers themselves, but these are funds that are for municipalities and for the lines themselves. They are necessary to enable one in general to exist. The other thing that needs to be done is an effective fight against unregulated shipments, which have, of course, been a problem for years, but they, by industry assessment, represent more than 30% of the shipments. And last but not least, to see the statistics of the carriers, which say that for a grant of 1000 and nearly 500 companies apply only 565, which would mean that around 1000 carriers have already gone bankrupt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u834	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Is there any line to that statement? I can't see. Maria Belova is listed for a speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u835	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! However, we must say the good things in the budget under consideration. Our parliamentary group will support the proposal in art. 24 in relation to the 29 million envisaged. Three hundred thousand. lv. for the operation of the water protection service entrusted to the Irrigation Systems. We think this is a step in the right direction, but we still note that this is a very small step in the right direction after we took two big steps back. What do I mean? The withdrawal of the full rehabilitation of the Irrigation Systems at the Recovery and Sustainability Policy of 800 million. lv. is a deliberately missed chance by both the caretaker government and the current regular for a radical change in farmers' watering conditions. With its implementation, a potential water saving of more than 44% could be achieved. But the steps back in the topic "Irrigation in Bulgarian agriculture" is not only this. As I said, in the last two or three weeks we are also witnessing a case that we still hope the Ministry of Agriculture will remedy all the weaknesses.. it is about attempts to terminate the procedures under Measure 4.3., to which I am paying attention, there is a financial resource of 107 million to rehabilitate 24 irrigation facilities, which the procedure has started with the old regular government and approved by the minister of the service at the end of 2021. These investments would have ensured rehabilitation, as I said, of 24 irrigation channels, which would have increased the irrigation areas by over 200,000 acres. That's why we believe that aside from the $29 million we need. Three hundred thousand. lv. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food must have a resource in the sector of irrigation, because without irrigation there can be no Bulgarian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u836	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Replices, coworkers? I won't. To speak, Mr. Bayram.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u837	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! At the very first vote of the state budget in the Standing Committees, we asked the ruling majority and the Finance Minister if we had projects on capital expenditure. We wanted to know what the draft readiness of the ruling majority was. We received no answer and today we see Mr. Ananiev making one proposal and suddenly there are 2 billion. Three hundred and forty-three million. lv. additional costs for 2022. Mr. Ananiev, while at the Political Party GERB, has learned a lot, so to speak, bad practices. We might even characterize the driving of the jeep tonight as a late-night ride of the jeep. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Yes, you're a pretty good driver, Mr. Ananiev, you've learned a lot, but when you're taking on such serious expenses, you should be here to be the Deputy Prime Minister and the Finance Minister. Mr. Chairman, not that you're doing your job properly, but at least call the finance minister to spoil his sleep and come to explain if we have agreed projects signed projects, where these 2 billion will be spent. Three hundred and forty-three million. lv. A little extra? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] From where? But you taught them very well, you know. And now we're gonna have headaches with them. Dear colleagues of the ruling majority, you have boarded the SUV and are on your way, but know that you are heading for the gulf. It's close, and you'll see it's pretty deep in this precipice.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u838	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u839	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Bajram! It's good to talk, but it's good to read. [[DRF lines]] And when you read, read everything. Do not only read the Budget Act, open your Public Finance Act, where there is a very precise definition of commitments and costs. Listen carefully. Are you listening to me? Listen to me. Listen, listen, when you talk here, you'll listen. The commitments made for expenditure are clauses of contracts and provisions of regulatory and administrative acts which bind budgetary organisations to future payments for expenditure and/or new expenditure obligations. And let me tell you something about the SUV, which is very clever. First of all, this SUV is midnight because of you, because if you hadn't slowed down the acceptance of all things by ending the debate, of everything else, we would have actually voted or read this text, maybe six or seven...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u840	Mr. Ananiev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u841	Is my time up?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u842	...by the budget, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u843	Yes, yes, I'm in charge, I'm replicating Mr. Bayram very specifically. He was talking about jeeps, I wasn't talking about jeeps. And the SUV scattered the money, usually one Wednesday, December, when the obedient were given mayors and all sorts of other organizations... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u844	Mr. Ananiev, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u845	So the SUV was never...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u846	Mr. Ananiev, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u847	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u848	Please, let's talk about this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u849	Then you should have interrupted Mr. Bayram, I replicated him. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u850	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Is there a second line to Mr. Bayram's statement? Mr. Letifov and then by GERB, which you decide for a third reply.......................................................................... [[Noise and lines.]] Once I've run out of lines and backs, there will be procedures. [[The National Representatives of GERB-SDS stand next to the banks.]] Colleagues, please take your seats. It's extremely unpleasant for the speakers, you're literally on top of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u851	There's no quorum!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u852	Please take your seats. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u853	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Bajram, I want you to answer: what is the SUV, where is the 2 billion and something, where is the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for dropping the SUV because they did not support it? The SUV exists, colleagues, Mr. Ananiev, because of you there is the SUV. We have offered to drop the SUV, Mr. Ananiev, read, read. And when you vote, you read again because we suggested what you said was full of doubt. The jeep is full of doubt, and we offered to drop it. The Yin House procedures are filled with doubt, we have offered to drop out, but they have not dropped out, Mr. Ananiev. And just so you know, the SUV was worth $9 billion in December! Nine billion, Mr. Ananiev, was worth the jeep for December.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u854	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Is there a third line, colleagues? I won't. Mr. Bajram, come in for your coat. I'll call on you to stay in good order, Mr. Bayram.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u855	Did you call the Minister? Did you call the Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u856	I'll give you an answer after the dot, Mr. Bayram. If you'll please address me with the respect that I'm addressing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u857	I apologize, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u858	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u859	Bulgarian society, all Bulgarian citizens expected a change from you. You're not changing at all, you're a pure dose replacement. [[Applause from DPS.]] A clean dose of replacement! December 9 billion were distributed in the SUV.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u860	In nine days!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u861	For how long? [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] There's symbolism. Nine days, nine billion. This is your model of the SUV. [[Applause from DPS.]] We've had suggestions to remove this model from the SUV. You rejected him, Art. 87. Yesterday, we had the same proposal to reject the model of the SUV in art. 1, para. 5, you rejected this proposal again. You're a clean dose of replacement. Kiril Petkov is the driver of the SUV, when he gets tired, will take Asen Vassilev to Ananiev will not give him because he has no potential. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u862	For the information of the Chamber, Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev is out of the country, Mr. Bajram, there is no objective way to be here right now. [[Relations from the National Representative Rositsa Kirova and from the National Representative Bajram.]] Mr. Bayram, I just answered your question. What does it mean he's not answering his phone? And pick up the phone, turn it on over the phone? To speak, Alexander Ivanov. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats after all. Although there is no quorum, this does not mean that there should be no order in the Chamber. The debate continues. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u863	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u864	Yes, yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u865	Just, Mr. Chairman, may I ask you, from 25 to which member are we speaking?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u866	23 to 27 included.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u867	Thank you very much. In this way, can I take five minutes each member and speak at once so that I don't take five times five minutes? How do we assess the procedure? Or in 25 minutes, can I speak to all the members? Is there such a practice? I don't know.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u868	Mr. Ivanov, we have allowed you to examine five provisions at the same time, so you should have five minutes in total, but I will give you more time. All my colleagues have so far taken into account.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u869	And the other Members who remain in this Chamber should know, because, Mr President, it is important to note that the other Members of Parliament who are in this Chamber, although at this late hour, have the right to speak for five minutes each paragraph and by considering five paragraphs together, because this is how they are read by the President of the Commission Mr Karimanski, it is logical, Mr President, to be able to speak for five minutes each of them. That's my logic. If I break the rules, tell me, I want to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u870	Start your speech, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u871	Yes, thank you. The first paragraph we are talking about, Mr. Chairman, is precisely for the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Colleagues, a lot has been said in the debate today on the draft budget for regional development and public works, many of my former colleagues and others, albeit few, MPs. In the Chamber of the National Assembly at this hour, unfortunately, we do not have members of the Council of Ministers. We invited them, there were even calls from MPs. So, like a procedure and a college remark, Mr. President, if you can call the members of the Council of Ministers, to these ministries whose budget we are looking at because it is important to discuss. After all, we are looking at the law of the Republic of Bulgaria. I'm going to ask you, any member of the Council of Ministers, to whom we look at, to call, can certainly call colleagues, and ask them: why are they not in the Chamber? Because they have, however, proposed, colleagues, I say it to all my colleagues in the Chamber, so the members of the Council of Ministers have proposed, agreed with the Council of Ministers, the funds they propose for the policies to spend in 2022. And if the MPs in the discussion of these specific order in order, we have questions to them, it is not only good practice, but at least parliamentary logic to have members of the Council of Ministers to carry out these chairs. I, unfortunately, have seen them empty for over two hours, Mr. Chairman. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] I'm being replicated by the Members of the Chamber. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'll allow myself to answer them. Colleagues, this budget is important for the state, of course, and for all Bulgarian children. I really regret that there are no members of the Council of Ministers who will respect the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u872	Mr. Ivanov, this is your speaking time, keep in mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u873	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm running out of time. I don't see it. Something's gone wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u874	It's running, three minutes. 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u875	Yes, thank you. You're interrupting me at 25 minutes. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Chairman! No, you guys are laughing, but it's not funny, it's still 2:20, we're looking at the State Budget Act and it's surprising to me, colleagues, it's surprising to me that the ruling coalition has fewer and fewer MPs. This is not a good indicator, at least they do not respect the budget that the Council of Ministers, voted and proposed by them, has defended. Absolutely show carelessness towards people, and a lot of citizens have concerns about the State Budget Act and the figures in it. I will not comment on the fullness of the Bill, we did it at first reading quite thoroughly, quite widely, analyzed, we also listened to many experts and economic analysts who spoke on the Bill. They didn't see much logic in it. I am continuing specifically with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, colleagues. I was impressed that some of the speakers I regret not being able to pick up a line, but it was a very intense debate. There are some huge funds that are commendable. Don't get me wrong, colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u876	Mr. Ivanov, your time is up, but I'll give you one more minute since...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u877	Mr. Chairman, that was my five minutes for the first paragraph. I'm gonna be able to take five minutes for the next one, okay?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u878	Mr. Ivanov, I suppose you know better than I do what the parliamentary practice that all colleagues have been doing so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u879	You guys want to speak up and I'm eating you out of time? [[(Replies from]] Come and speak. But you are not the members of the Council of Ministers and you have no one to share with.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u880	There are representatives, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u881	You have the greatest respect for my colleagues who are here, yes, the members of the Council of Ministers, if you do not know, are Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers. They are elected by the National Assembly, then the Council of Ministers can appoint my highly respected deputy ministers. I'm sorry that at 2:20, Mr. Chairman, I have to explain to my colleagues, it's good to know. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] They've definitely read the Constitution, they know who the members of the Council of Ministers are.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u882	Mr. Ivanov, your statement is not essentially...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u883	I'm getting to the point, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u884	One more minute to keep that in mind. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u885	Thank you, remind me. In this regard, Mr President, it is indeed very ambitious that the 2 billion. The Commission 793 thousand. BGN, which are set for policy for improvement of the investment process, maintenance, modernization, construction, technical infrastructure. There were many colleagues from the hall who said that they might not be filled with content and would not be able to spend these funds. However, I will say that I support this ambitious idea which the members of the Council of Ministers have proposed. I regret that Minister Karadjov, because at the moment we are discussing precisely the budget for regional development and public works, which is not funny, he is very serious and very concerned if he was here to tell us the 2 billion. 535 million for five, six or four perhaps the bridge over the Danube will be. Maybe a colleague, no, no, absolutely serious, colleagues, had speeches. The election programme is important, colleagues, when we come to this House, to perform if not 100%, which is the maximum and which we should strive to do in the implementation of our election programmes, at least 5%. Given that you said that five bridges would be built over the Danube, and there is no one at stake, that is to say that this is zero percent of your election programme, especially in the field of regional development and public works. It's disturbing for me, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your tolerance. I'll take that as two paragraphs, and I have three more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u886	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I've already explained to you how things are with speaking time. For a line? Here you go. Mr. Enchev, are you for a line too?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u887	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I cannot agree with your expectations from the beginning of your exhibition, as you expect members of the Council of Ministers to be present and you miss that this ruling majority has invented unprecedented practices. Two days in a row, without precedent in modern history, the rulers knocked down their own quorum so they couldn't look at their own budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u888	Mr. Hristov, is that on the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u889	Mr. Ivanov spoke of expectations to the Council of Ministers, I am disproven his expectations.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u890	The subject is not waiting for the Council of Ministers, Mr. Hristov. The theme...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u891	Mr. Chairman of the sitting made a comment regarding procedures and good parliamentary practices. I would be interested to hear your assessment of the other good parliamentary practice, Mr. Chairman, which they invented to restart the debates the other day. Also something unsolved in the Rules of Procedure. Last but not least, please share your opinion on the next three paragraphs of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u892	Mr. Enchev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u893	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I have heard from you very serious figures, many billions, I want to know from you, because I could not find out, have you found policies in the field of regional development? Did you see anything that's strategic? Have you noticed any policies for spending these funds, which, as you have already noted, and colleagues in the Chamber, may be the most serious amounts that have been invested so far in the regional development of the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u894	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Third line please, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u895	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I did not understand from you a few very important things in your exhibition related to the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. In the election campaign of the Political Party we continue the Change, repeatedly and repeatedly there was a mantra that was so waving that 8 billion were stolen. You see, in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, do you see investments of this value or at any of the other points of 27, 28, which are being considered, from 23 to 27, are there at least some of those 8 billion that were said to be gone? Secondly, are there funds in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the construction of several bridges over the Danube River? Is there money to build the highway from Vidin to Shumen? Is there money planned for the construction of several tunnels under Stara Planina? I ask you to answer these questions because they were given as a request by the party. The Bulgarians believed them and it is very important to find out whether these things will happen, or if they were just fireworks during the election campaign of "We continue the Change." It's important to people who are watching us right now. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u896	For the doppelganger, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u897	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear gentlemen replicating, thank you for your lines. According to Mr. Hristov's line, this parliament and the new rulers, Mr. Hristov, will obviously discover new things in procedural terms. That's obviously the new one. That's the change. We're looking at two and a half budgets. There's no one from the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, colleagues in the ruling majority have no energy to protect the budget that the Council of Ministers has thrown at them. They've even made 204 proposals, and they're not protecting them. It's their right and I don't argue with him. Mr. Enchev, unfortunately, that is why I also called on the President of the National Assembly to try to find a member of the Council of Ministers, I will not specify again who is a member of the Council of Ministers.... the respected Deputy Ministers by me, fellow experts from the Ministry of Finance are extremely useful in the setting of the budget, but they are not responsible for the policies that these people have to conduct. There's no one here. Therefore, Mr. Enchev, I am perplexed by what policies in the development of the regions of Bulgaria are the proposed billions? Ambitious. I'm in. We must be ambitious in the budget, but there must be real projects behind it. Mr. Angelov, you amaze me every time. In addition to an expert in health care, you have monitoring of colleagues in their political programme in terms of regional development and public works. I'll try to be more direct. Unfortunately, I mentioned that out of these five bridges that were said to be built, in this budget and in the coming years is round zero, nada. The project was to be implemented with European funds at the time of GERB. Colleagues can't, don't they know, I can't comment and colleagues from the Council of Ministers can't give an explanation now there is a possible tunnel under Shipka to be built with Bulgarian funds. Colleagues, without using the possibility of European funding. I'm very sorry to say that. These are funds Bulgaria has lost. As we can see, there is no Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Other countries have taken billions of euros to restore their economy affected by the CoVID-19 pandemic. Next year, God forbid, the sooner, the better. Other countries have already poured billions into their own economy. Since this is about billions, colleagues replicating these 8 billion, neither in this order of the Ministry of Regional Development, nor elsewhere could I find them, unfortunately, found that 8 billion debt is being drawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u898	For procedure. Please come in for a procedure. Then for the procedure too Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u899	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs! I take the procedure for the first time in the manner of conduct, for the first time and for no reason at this hour. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] You're about to find out why. Most of you are laughing at the question asked by Mustafa Karadaye, our chairman. Just a few months ago, I personally suffered the repression of Mr. Rashkov and my family. My friends, too. In front of my family, I was called to explain myself by signing a protocol not to campaign in elections, provided I was nominated as the MP. And to get the protocol, I had to sign it. I signed the protocol so that there would come a time when, facing you today, I would ask a question directly to the Home Secretary, who does not answer that question. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] I'll give you one more example. Imagine that at this hour someone entered your home, not someone, but the police. In front of your young children and elderly parents, they take you to the ground, handcuff you, take you to the police station, and by noon it turns out that you were called to sign a protocol not to campaign during the election. What's next? How will your parents and your children feel? That's what happened to someone close to me. And when we filed a lawsuit against the police, it turns out that at two and a half o'clock in the evening, my loved one called the police himself to give an answer about whether he's gonna campaign or not. This is recorded in the court ruling in the Pleven district of the courthouse. You can check it out. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. In this hall and from this highest tribune, great Bulgarians have spoken, defending the interests of our homeland, but they have also spoken great Bulgarians, betraying the interests of our homeland. Let each of us not think that we can hide under the skirt of the political group that represents and decide for ourselves which great ones he stands for. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u900	Thank you, Mr. Rangelov. Here you are, Mrs. Kirova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u901	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My procedure is to you in the manner of conduct. I understand the stoicism and the heavy burden of taking a party order to make sure the opposition's arguments are not heard, to beat the debate and a law as important as the budget to be voted in a way that is absurd. And by the way, perhaps it will be the first time in the new history of Bulgaria "I do not know before how budgets have been voted. Because if it turns out that we are voting in this budget on feathers, such as, say, those for the Food and Forestry Agency, or for that to be given funds in relevant ministries, which have not yet come under certain structures, such as the Law on... - by the way, which we didn't vote on, for the waters, and we didn't finish it, and we have the funds at stake, including for this agency. We will set a precedent and we will surely be very interesting at least to those in the Chamber. We're all stuck here hoping that you'll show some self-respect, talk about self-respect, and end this meeting because it's absolutely pointless. Firstly, there is not a single minister here and there is not a single representative of the Council of Ministers and of this government. [[Relations of the National Representative Alexandra Korcheva.]] These are not representatives of the Council of Ministers, dear Mrs. Korcheva. These are ministers' employees. There is not a single representative of the Council of Ministers and of this government to protect the budget. And that's disgraceful! And it's very embarrassing! Besides...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u902	Time, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u903	...we can all hold out till morning. However, the effect of what we do will be an extremely shameful night in relation to the Bulgarian Parliamentism. I am finishing up so that I can pick up. Please sign me up for a statement on the budget of MRRB................................................................................... 23. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u904	Proceed directly with the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u905	And my suggestion to you is to call a living representative of the Council of Ministers, who is not abroad. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS: "May not ……]] In Paris, London, Brussels or anywhere. One.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u906	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u907	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! For Mrs. Kirova's argument, I'll argue part of it. Ms. Kirova, the National Assembly has repeatedly met at such a late hour. Although the nominations of the new parties, of those who will change the style of government, is that there will be no night meetings, that there will be no meetings in the dark, that there will be open and public debate, public and such between politicians here in the National Assembly. And to make a proposal led by your arguments that there is not a single representative of the Council of Ministers, I specifically ask you to invite Deputy Prime Minister Cornelia Ninova, who stated several hours ago that it was Bulgaria's fault that there is no budget, that the opposition is failing the meetings and quorum, which is obviously not true. However, I am not surprised that Cornelia Ninova speaks untruths? many of you know why. [[Noise and lines.]] It is important that you get over something else. The definition of which you claimed to be a label of the National Assembly, namely that the National Assembly is a rubber stamp. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The demonstration, honourable Members, is that you are the rubber seal of this government. It's embarrassing...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u908	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u909	...and it is uncomfortable for you, Mr. Chairman, of the Bulgarian Parliament that you are humiliated in this way. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u910	Speaking of which, Mr. Zhelyazkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u911	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The good thing about small hours is that the conversation starts as nocturnal pouring maybe more calmly. I hope if we don't sharpen the debate, we can at least hear arguments. I will take into account the budget of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, but the functionally related text on the subsidy from the central budget with regard to the transports of the city lines in remote mountain and other settlements. A short time ago, my esteemed colleague Halil Letifov spoke on this subject. We have made a deliberate proposal in this area. With regard to Sofia Municipality, I will take an attitude when considering art. 50 maybe around 8:00 this morning or maybe later, but I want to talk about our proposal, which is related to two groups of transports, carriers and carrying out a transport service. I'm going to start a little bit historical, because maybe now is the time to talk, not just convince ourselves. In the late 1980s and 1990s in Europe, state monopolies began to fall on many of the services. Such state monopolies that existed in countries such as France, in the former Eastern bloc and so on. Many of these services begin to function on the free market, on the liberal market, on a competitive basis. However, a large part of these services, colleagues who are defined as services of general interest, need state support because they represent an impossible financial burden for many of their users. The European regulation for these services divides them into three categories: services of general economic interest, services of non-economic interest and social services of general interest. We will now talk about services of general economic interest, including passenger transport services which have been reflected in Regulation 1370 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which services say that countries must and can assist carriers in the operation of services and the generation of loss from the operation of those services up to the amount of the negative net result of revenue and expenditure. In Bulgaria, such services are carried out in the cities of the city, these are the transports on non-profit lines, these are the services that are carried out in the long-distance transports, services that are carried out to the undercrowded, remote, mountain areas and so on. Our proposal is to increase the estimated funds from 50 million to 85 million for the non-profitable services in cities that cover all modes of transport to be set up in order to provide for 40 million for the long-distance transports, which is not yet an inflation multiplier, because they do not have a conditional permanent nature and will not be transferred to the next year, and their aim is only to cover the negative net effect of the reduced revenues because of the pandemic that still deters most of the people from travelling and the losses that are being accumulated because of the increased costs of natural gas, electricity and other fuels. This proposal is justified on both grounds and in size, and regardless of the fact that the Budget and Finance Committee has not supported this proposal, I believe that we will find the approach to implement this thing even in this review of the draft budget and not in its update. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u912	Thank you, Mr. Zhelyazkov. Are there any lines to Rosen Zhelyazkov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u913	Mr. Zhelyazkov, would you point out whether there is an example in the European practice of subsidising this type of transport and to list us some of the countries, because we should still use at least their example in this regard as a member of the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u914	Any other lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u915	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Zhelyazkov, you have today raised a very important and up-to-date theme of transportation in the mountain and semi-mountain settlements. I do not know how many of the colleagues who are in this Chamber and those who are absent, who are MPs, but do not know their electoral areas where they are. It was no accident that Google was searching for settlements, where they were going, in which area, and whether they knew what it meant in a meter of snow to go public transportation and to serve the population in small towns. I want you to clarify to these colleagues who do not want to hear what this means for all small settlements in Bulgaria, which support the border regions of our Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u916	Professor Angelov, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u917	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zhelyazkov, I only regret that the Bulgarian space program with Macedonia did not come true, but I am extremely glad that the line between Sofia and Skopje has finally left. I would like to ask you in the budget of the Ministry of Transport where the money the state will pay to exist this line and to explain to me is it cost-effective as a state policy to pay a private airline to fly from Bulgaria to Skopje just to make someone's political wish come true and does this benefit our country? Just as a professional in this area, what are our benefits and the payment of taxpayers' funds to a private airline, why is it done and is there any corporate interest hidden in your opinion? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u918	Here you go, Mr. Zhelyazkov. If you wanted to say those things, I wouldn't have interrupted you in the original statement. You didn't need lines specifically to give up the dot. You have the floor, please. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u919	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Svilensky, that's what I'm going to say, there's no budget and there's no way to provide for such costs. To respond to Professor Angelov because air communications, which are commercial, are carried out on a market basis, so that they are not supported by the state and cannot be assisted in the form of any State aid. As far as there is an operator who has made such an interest, this should be part of his business model. In what way it will be realized, we will see in the future. Either way, by the government of Mr. Stanishev, when Mr. Mutafchiev was Minister of Transport, we have established agreements with the Republic of Northern Macedonia for air communications and any air operator can operate on this line if there is commercial interest in it. That's what I'm talking about. As regards the service of general economic interest, the one regulated in § 4 of the Road Transport Act, a regulation of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications for quite a number of years and currently in the budgets for the previous years provides for means of subsidising these transports in intra-urban non-profit lines, for remote locations, for mountain areas and other such lines which do not allow carriers from the sale of transport documents to generate sufficient revenue to cover costs. Especially with the depopulation of small settlements and the additional problems that the COVID-19 pandemic has created, many of these lines carry several people or several dozens of people a day and are extremely inefficient and without the aid of the State subsidy with these targeted transfers they would not be of interest to any carrier. But the state is obliged to support this transport, because also for one person who has to move from one settlement to another and should not be entrenched in his life and existence, we cannot afford to deprive him of the transport service. And that is why I argued in my statement the need to increase these funds. Otherwise, as far as the budget of the Ministry of Transport and Communications is concerned, we believe that we observe an exceptional continuity, both of programmes and policies, and therefore we have no objection either to programmes or policies or to the development of specific projects that continue their natural continuum. As for the declared intentions and ambitions of the Ministry, perhaps much of them will be seen in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, but this is a future event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u920	Thank you, Mr. Zhelyazkov. Rositsa Kirova is recorded and Irena Dimova is also.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u921	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm only asking you before I begin and take my time, that we really understand each other once and for all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u922	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u923	Art. 80, para. A Member of the National Assembly may justify proposals made within five minutes for each proposal. I will now speak on the proposals for the Agricultural Academy, on the proposals for the Ministry of Public Works, and I would like to take a separate approach to MRDPB. How many minutes am I entitled to 15 or 5 in total?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u924	Five you have in common, but, of course, we can also be more liberal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u925	Why five in total, given that it is written about each proposal? [[Noise and lines.]] No, that's why I say, let's clean it up once and for all, because it's gonna be... I put it on the map.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u926	No, we don't have time for you. It's okay, let's keep it that way for the time being.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u927	So it will be once and for all obviously reading the budget, next time it will be 50 members at once and we will only have 5 minutes. And for example, I'm the only one under art. 51 I have seven proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u928	No, they won't be at least 50 members at once. Don't worry, no one will abuse that, I assure you. But yes, there are five minutes. Sure, come on in. If you really have anything to say to the point, I won't interrupt. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u929	No, I didn't put the map in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u930	We still haven't timed her because she hasn't started the speech. That is why we have clarified this matter. Thank you, Professor. Here you are, Mrs. Dimova, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u931	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let's start with the Agricultural Academy. You know, after long debates, we voted on a new law in which the Agricultural Academy became an independent structure with its own budget. In this budget for 2022, our proposal is worth 7 million. BGN, which is for an increase in the income of the staff. We believe that this is the least paid structure in this area. At the Ministry of Agriculture again we find that there is no increase in employee income and we propose a 31 million increase. In BABBH we offer 23 million to cover the programs they have to run along the food chain. You know this is vital for everyone, and money is extremely insufficient. The other 7 million we direct to capital expenditure. If you do not know, colleagues, because you have not been to other parliaments, but BABBH has the most outdated real estate of all structures in Bulgaria. There we have planned for the renovation of a new building and the purchase of new cars. And our next proposal at the Ministry of Agriculture, so long spoken in art. Art. 1, and in art. Article 5 and in art. 9, is the transfer of the Agency from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Finance, the relocation of the Forest Agency from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Council of Ministers and the transfer of the certification body to the Ministry of Finance. We have stated several times that this is in violation of the Public Finance Act, and our proposal is here that the planned amounts should return to the right place at the Ministry of Agriculture. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we all know there is no legislative change. There may not be in the future, and there is the right place. About the MRDP, an ambitious programme..2.5 billion. We are all convinced that this will not be fulfilled. But this is where the biggest disappointment comes to me. I expected from the ruling coalition of BSP, at least my colleague Popov will be in the Chamber, at least because we will be talking about the Northwest. But out of 204 offers... [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Mr. Svilensky, I'll turn to you now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u932	Colleagues, no lines, no names, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u933	Out of 204 proposals, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I expected the 205th proposal to be made by Mr. Svilenski under art. 80, para. 2 as an editorial in this debate and it contains within these 2,5 billion separate lines. Thus the notorious offered by them always 300 million for Northwestern Bulgaria. So, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the BSP coalition, I would really be proud, and I would love it if you made this editorial proposal and proved that after yesterday's debate, the words are not populism, but really think about the Northwest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u934	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. You're up for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u935	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, a little late, but Mrs. Dimova also passed on the topic of travel. Mrs. Dimova, we just couldn't figure out this 2.5 billion in 2022 will be implemented or in the quarter? Because we are now looking at budget 2022, but the budget has been in force since 1 April and we know that there will be an update on the end of June, the beginning of July. So I'm asking you to clarify, and you have something to talk to your colleagues about the Northwest. Unfortunately, we also had problems 2013 - 2014 Operational Programme "Transport" and the government of Oresharski failed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u936	Here's a line and then a third line, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u937	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Dimova, many times you and I have discussed the problems of the Northwest, as you know, from one region we are MPs and have repeatedly come to the conclusion that we need to invest in infrastructure. I wouldn't allow myself to mention to you what your needs are. I'm sorry Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, who had recently made one very serious...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u938	Mr. Enchev, concentrate on your line to Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u939	Dear Mrs. Dimova, did you happen to travel from Montana to Varshets recently? Have you noticed the acute need to repair the road to Varshets? Did you see somewhere staked in this multibillion-dollar repair program on this road you've been waiting years for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u940	And let's hear Mr. Balachev's third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u941	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, as long as we're here! My question and my reply is related to this in the justification of the budget, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance explicitly stated that there would be money for those who are ready to work. In the budget I did not see and saw no concrete justification for this. In these 2.5 billion, have you seen exactly what the objects are, what their readiness is, and whether they can be accomplished by the end of 2022? Because if that is not the case, then it means that this money, their purpose to be in this volume placed in this ministry, will obviously have another fate at the end of the year, and that is an internal redistribution of other objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u942	And now let's hear the backdrop. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u943	Do I walk slowly or do I talk slowly? [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u944	Quickly put your card on, and then whatever you decide.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u945	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the first line. Mr. Ivanov, thank you for your reply, because yesterday I really missed it in the debate a lie spoken by this tribune, namely the lie, that the road that affects this road that you reported, but also the road Botevgrad Vidin, is taken from our government from the programme. Then I forgot to say that this government, when it approved the project program, was Mr. Oresharski's and that was a clear lie spoken by this tribune. Mr. Balachev, we really all know, even they are not 2.5 billion, there are now five that there is no design readiness. That is why I called on the ruling coalition of BSP to wager the 300 million for the Northwest because the municipalities have a project readiness and from there they can better direct them. Mr. Enchev, I go often and I know that the road Botevgrad is not the one who is building Botevgrad Vidin and who stopped at the moment. I know the state of all roads in Montana. I cannot say that I know everyone in Vidin and in Vratsa, but I know that the village of Boynitsa is located in Vidin, I know that the village of Gradeshnitsa is located in Vratsa, I know that the village of Ravna is located in the municipality of Chiprovtsi, in Montana [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] , and I know absolutely all the roads that are in our territory. So my proposals were made to finish and be really in a proper state, and there just had to be a voice of government and will. And the way to Varshets has been promised many times, and now they promise it. He's going to be one of those five billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u946	Thank you. Is there a procedure? [[(Reply from the National Representative Paul Hristov:]] Let's hear it, let's see what I did wrong in the way I was led.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u947	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In fact, my procedure would be semi-humoristic, but coming down here, I thought it would be offensive to the institution, so seriously. By discussing the budget on a day like today, starting yesterday, are we actually lowering the debate? [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u948	Oh, really?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u949	No, look, the way you're trying to abuse the opposition... [[Noise and lines.]] Guys, I'm trying to be dialogueal here. The way you bully the opposition is not very acceptable, but we will respect and spend the whole night here debating. But think about whether it is not good for the sake of good tone to set a good example, to end this agonizing meeting, to continue tomorrow normally, when at least the political debates will have some value. Otherwise, we only demonstrate an impeccable sense of humor all the groups and perhaps persistence to make it through the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u950	Thank you for this procedure, Mr. Christov. However, to abuse the opposition, given that the debates continue since yesterday morning, I apologize, since the other morning, all day on Wednesday, on Thursday there was also a long break for other points undoubtedly, but I would not call this a abuse of the opposition. Indeed, most of all because the opportunity to speak at any point has not been restricted to you at any time, even on the contrary, at some point when we ended the debate, we have nevertheless decided to renew them precisely as a sign of some co-operation with the opposition and to be able to hear the voice of everyone, which, I hope, at some point, will be appreciated. That's it. Please come in for a procedure and then Alexander Ivanov to listen.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u951	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner in which you are directed. By the way, I also wanted to see what the hall looks like from here. She doesn't seem very satisfying to me. I do not know if you are satisfied that you are chairing this very evening and we are discussing the state budget in this situation with 30 people, which makes about ten percent of the people's representation. You, Mr. Chairman, belong to a political party that came with another request. You criticised here in this Chamber during GERB's management that there are no ministers, that there is no Prime Minister. Yes, the Prime Minister was here for a while the last few days, but we're discussing a budget, no ministers. You have formed an office quite transparently. You gave a model, something new. You were in the same room, you turned on the cameras, you spoke to the whole Bulgarian society, you emphasized that for the first time it was done and so on, a great transparency. There was someone to watch this time of day. Now there's no one to look at, probably from the viewers. [[Noise and lines.]] Well, wake them up. I don't know how you're gonna wake them up. Wake up the viewers then watch at 3:00 a.m. what we're doing here. Mr. Chairman, I'm also a first-time MP, like most of you. I, too, have seen bad practices, at least on the TV screen, followed the processes and thought that the young MPs, to whom I belong and most of our parliamentary group, will change something at least we will interrupt the apparatus games. You guys have been doing camera games here for a couple of days. I don't know how long you've been in politics, but you've become serious politicians, because that's what politicians do with serious experience. I've seen it, and I don't know how you learned it so quickly. I'll remind you, and I'll finish with a request. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Okay, I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u952	I'm listening to your request, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u953	I would remind you first of all that these elections were with a record low activity of nearly 40%. You, the ruling majority, have about a million and four hundred votes and manage nearly six million voters in Bulgaria. Only here with 10% you want us to accept the state budget. Imagine tomorrow's headlines on the news and I don't know if this will satisfy you if this is how we accept the state budget, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u954	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. First of all, we are voting on it. We can't do this right now. Secondly, if there is one thing that pleases me, this full room is, of course, something that should happen, but if there is one thing that really satisfies me, it is seeing statements on the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u955	Who's gonna make them?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u956	When I hear speeches that are far from the subject...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u957	Isn't it respect that we're sitting here at 3:00 listening to you? Are we an empty room?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u958	There are people with offers, and they're not in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u959	...this is what I find more disappointing now, and I hope the MPs will do it not because it matters to me, but because that is the purpose of the debate at the end of the day. For the procedure. sandar Ivanov. Hristo Gazhev is gone. Come on in, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u960	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Normally, that remark about Mr. Gajev didn't make sense, but he'll be here soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u961	Mr. Gazhev is very well-read by the regulations, I say that quite...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u962	He's been read on a lot of subjects.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u963	Please, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u964	On many subjects has been read, Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u965	Yes, of course, so is the subject of defense is also very well read, and I believe there are others with whom I am, of course, not familiar with. According to the Rules he is specifically very familiar and can always take adequate attitude in the manner of conduct. That's what I meant. Mr. Ivanov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u966	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, in the spirit of good tone and parliamentaryism, first of all, would like to point out that you have indeed said that it is not limited to the right of the opposition to speak. Did you make such an attempt yesterday, the other day I'm already fused, that's normal, it's still 03.15.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u967	Yeah, the other day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u968	Yeah, the other day. Then, Mr President, indeed, your parliamentary group has made a procedure that is not in good terms, is not in the spirit of parliamentaryism, and you have tried to interrupt the opposition's speeches, again on a stated list of speeches. After two hours of debate on the subject, for me lost time by your parliamentary group, you have at least entered into the understanding and therefore I thank you and tell you that it was then the right decision to allow the opposition to speak, as we now have this opportunity. To make a constructive remark. Mr. Chairman, there are colleagues who are in isolation. However, we have the technical opportunity to include them, and I propose, if they want to take part in the debate, yet we have secured, we have a vote in the Rules, which allows them to do so, this is my first proposal in the manner of conduct. My other proposal, Mr. Chairman, the colleague who was in charge of the meeting just now, you were also up on the stand, I made an offer and asked to call the members of the Council of Ministers, whose budgets of their institutions in charge we look at at at 03.15 a.m. at 30 people in the Chamber. [[Reply from the National Representative Venko Sabrutev.]] No, Mr. Sabrutev, there are not members of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u969	Complete your procedure, Mr. Ivanov, because your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u970	Mr. Chairman, I suggest we include them online, innovatively, we have the Ministry of Innovation, we have a technical opportunity. Let the members of the Council of Ministers, if they cannot be here with the MPs, join us online. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u971	Mr. Ivanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u972	I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u973	Yeah, yeah, great offer. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I'm trying to be nice... [[Reply from "We continue the Change": "And still not working. "]] ...and I don't really understand. Professor, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u974	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u975	Let's hear your procedure, but... Something tells me that... Of course we'll hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u976	I'm curious what you're going to repeat from those 300 things you've been saying all day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u977	Let's hear it for Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u978	Don't expect a professor to repeat things to others. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Everything could have happened the way we agreed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u979	What was the way we agreed, Professor Angelov? What's this arrangement, let's hear it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u980	I'll tell you. First of all, we agreed we'd be working till 8:00. [[Reply from "We continue the Change": "Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!"]] Then we agreed that we would work in a normal way until we ran out of art. 50 included. At one wonderful moment came Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Ninova, who as Chairman of the Bulgarian Socialist Party (Bulgarian Socialist Party) gave a moral speech, then Mr. Svilenski also gave a heartbreaking speech explaining how who works. The Bulgarian people are a wise people and there is a saying that says: "Yes, you would sit still, you would not have seen a miracle. " Gentlemen ruling by the ruling opposition, we are more experienced than you in parliamentary practice. I understand that you want to silence the opposition that will get tired, leave, Mr. Karimansky to read his things, and tomorrow just vote them out. That's not gonna happen!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u981	Mr. Sabrutev will read them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u982	Mr. Sabrutev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u983	Mr. Sabrutev... That's not gonna happen, and it's not gonna happen because there's no constructive arrangement. Then, when we agree on something, it must be observed on all sides. Now you expect that by morning you will read to art. 50. It won't be read to art. 50, I promise you, we'll get to maximum Art. 35 and tomorrow we will continue like this and by the end of the day we will not reach art. 50. And that's because the ruling coalition is constantly trying to change the rules in the course of the game.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u984	Professor, your time is up...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u985	One sentence. Let's continue if you want to interrupt this midnight farce. Tomorrow morning, let's get the chairmen of parliamentary groups together and settle this. It is clear that this budget has been coming in since April 1st...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u986	Let's get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u987	I apologize. It is clear that this budget has been coming in since April 1st.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u988	We get it, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u989	It is clear that there is no need to vote tonight. So we're not gonna get tired, we're gonna move on, we're gonna move on with the change, and we're gonna see how far we get.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u990	Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u991	No, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u992	Yes, thank you, Professor, and for this procedure. First of all, with regard to.. we have had an agreement, I remind you that the duration of the meetings is determined by a decision of the National Assembly... not by appointments, I did not even know about it. If you did, make a procedural proposal, let's vote on it. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "You don't have ……]] When... [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "You don't have ……]] We still did. The quarum was lost after midnight, if there was an agreement to close the meeting at 00.00 hours, most likely it was before that, that's what I mean. This is with regard to the arrangements for how long to continue the meeting. Secondly, to silence the opposition, given that... I can't say how many hours we're debating, I can't really take it as an argument. I'm being very honest with you, Professor. Thirdly, regarding your greater parliamentary practice and that you are clearly more aware of the procedures and how to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u993	How can you slap us? Tell us straight.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u994	I'm going to say it straight out how to make further work difficult, obviously that's what Professor Angelov wanted to say. I will put it this way, perhaps it is not a coincidence that the elections won a coalition from whose parliamentary group 66 of 67 MPs are for the first time. Maybe that's what the people wanted. Inexperienced parliamentarians. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change. "]] I regret my last speech because I would normally like to avoid such a relationship, but at times I must. I wish we could continue in a reasonable manner. I do say it in good faith and, frankly, the view of a part of the opposition shows that it understands it. Please, let's all show that reason. I look at everyone who's in this room right now at 3:30. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u995	Mr President, honourable Members, it is precisely because of this debate from the beginning of this National Assembly that we alert and call you when there is a debate that the truth is born in this debate. We look forward to someone from the ruling party, including you, when you have something to say, to say it from the stand, so that on the basis of what has been said, we, as opposition, can draw our conclusions where we need to support you in any proposal. We are looking forward to especially in the face of the ruling coalition and especially in young people, those who are for the first time, from the party of That is why we are here and are looking forward to your arrival and that is why we are calling you from the first day of this National Assembly. It's dialogue that can give birth to real politics. [[Applause from DPS.]] Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. You were my set, weren't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u996	That's right, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u997	And you said you were ashamed, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u998	Yeah. Because of that procedure that was...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u999	Mr. Zhelyazkov, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1000	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really appeal to everyone, if we can, of course, at this midnight hour, achieve a fragile understanding that we are all tired. We've been sitting for a long time, the debate is nervous, he gets nervous and in certain situations escalates. And here it seems that this is not the time to continue playing will games, because tomorrow we will be insufficiently constructive and efficient, and this will affect the quality of our work tomorrow. It is very likely that tomorrow we will continue until this hour, because we have to accept the budget within Friday. You have the possibility of interrupting the meeting by the Rules of Procedure. If you want to interrupt it until 8.30, at 9:00 we will start the next meeting, but really, I think that with tactics or by imposing one or another behavior on behalf of parliamentary groups we will not make much further progress in the dialogue of the budget. I am sure that in each of the groups that are here tonight, there are people who will hold on to meeting until the early hours, but what is the added value to the budget? So think about this option, I'm saying it completely well in the name of setting some normal example and a normal tone for tomorrow's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1001	Thank you, Mr. Zhelyazkov. Frankly, I didn't think at any point that we could go on until the beginning of the next meeting, but, unfortunately, the truth is, we've lost at least half an hour in procedures, and we could have used this time for something on the substance of the dispute. Let us continue the debate just a little while longer, as far as possible. I say it really well-meaningly and even, I would say, that even after we found a lack of quorum and continued, there were statements that were very constructive. They were from your parliamentary group and Mrs. Avramova and Mrs. Nikolova... I don't want to tell everyone, so I don't miss anyone, and I don't want to do it on purpose. But let's just give it a little more time and we'll call it quits. Of course, no one lives thinking we're gonna make it through the night. Will there be more procedures, or any statement on the substance? Please. For a statement? Mr. Balachev's procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] No, Mrs. Kirova, please. Look, in order for there to be some co-operation on both sides and even one side at some point to say something, you don't need the other to jump like a sting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1002	Can I start?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1003	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1004	Mr. President, I have always tried to make a statement, all the more so when it comes to whether or not the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly are respected, to seek and draw arguments from the Rules itself. I opened it at this early hour to establish that the organization of the activities of the National Assembly is actually being carried out by its President and in your assistance are Vice-Presidents who form the Presidential Council, and it is your concern, I am emphasizing this thing, it is your concern to create not only an agenda that is optimal, that is to say, to be drawn up so that it is within the limits of this time that is set for plenary sessions in order to be able to work in committees, and you know that this time is between 9.00 and 14.00 hours. The justification you have already used several times for being able to extend working time in order to achieve the completion of some law, but it must be, even if there is such an extension, it must be within the limits of the reasonable, because we are all people here. And because we're human, we have certain physical possibilities for how long we have to work. It is true that we are not under employment contract, we cannot use the Labour Code, because if we were under the Labour Code, we would have already signaled the Control Inspection by now. However, we are people, there are certain health indicators that should be reckoned with, and it should be regarded by you as the person we have chosen, and you should take care of our health, for our comfort. That, on the one hand. On the other hand, in the same rules that you know...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1005	The weather, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1006	Give me a chance, it's in the common interest. I thought we talked about kindness.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1007	Yes, we've been talking about kindness, but you're immediately going into some kind of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1008	In the same Rules, it says that each Member of the National Assembly has the opportunity and right to actually participate in all plenary sittings and to take part in them. Please look at the picture we have here. Do you like this picture? Look, there are no more than 20 people.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1009	I get it. Mr. Balachev, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1010	Let me just finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1011	Finish with one sentence, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1012	I'll finish with one sentence. I mean, this cartoon that we represent right now, if any journalist filmed us, and if you don't show any sense, I'll take it down to all the journalists tomorrow, and then we wonder why the ratings of the National Assembly are so low. I am ashamed of what is happening tonight in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1013	I understand, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1014	I also appeal to you to terminate this meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1015	Thank you very much. I get that. And I just said, I think, very clearly, that what is the greater shame is a long time not to say a word on the substance of the debate that we have begun. And I specifically said, and colleagues from your parliamentary group, who, even in the early hours, made very reasoned statements. And although it is late, even though it is not full, it is much more valuable to the National Assembly than to waste 40 minutes at least parliamentary time, that is what I had in mind. Thank you. For speeches under Articles 23 to 27 inclusive. Rositsa Kirova is recorded, you too, Denitsa Sacheva for speech, Adlen Shevked for speech and Professor Angelov. Well, I wasn't planning on continuing the meeting. [[Laughter]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1016	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'll take a position on art. 23, para. 1 which concerns the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for 2022. In particular, I would like to draw you attention to a few things. To begin with, the integrated development policy of the regions for achieving growth and improving the quality of the living environment is secured by a sum of 3 million, which is extremely insufficient. And I say this in my capacity as a MP who lives in a peripheral region for the Republic of Bulgaria. Such peripheral regions are not only in Northwestern Bulgaria. Such peripheral regions are located in many places in Bulgaria, as the very structure of our regional development for many years is characterized by a monocentric model that has developed several major cities. Currently, for this reason, quite serious territories are being depopulated, despite the fact that demographic trends show a certain development of their own. We have, of course, very clearly expressed migration processes, both internal and external. External migration processes take people out of the country in search of a better life and higher pay. Internal migration processes follow exactly the same logic. They take people from small settlements to those who are more developed and larger. For this reason, the amount at stake for the integrated development of the regions is extremely insufficient. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I believe that it is necessary, if sustainable development is really to be worked, to increase it in the budget, and to take into account that the amount placed as commitments for expenditure that can be adopted for 2022 at the rate of 2 billion. 759 thousand. 859, and the correction made by Mr. Ananiev increased the amount of commitments made to 5 billion, if I am not mistaken. Is that right, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1017	I think so, Mrs. Kirova. I'm not entirely sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1018	This 5 billion, because it turns out it's not 2 billion. 700 and 5 billion, which should theoretically be committed by the end of 2022. Do not forget that the budget will enter into force on 31 March, which means that it is a budget at best for seven months, in case there is an update in June, I would say that there will also be radical changes to the budget, this amount is infinitely unrealistic and does not actually allow for those projects for which there are prepared technical documentation and for which there is a real willingness to be spent. I'm making a connection between art. Art. 23, Art. 51 where in relation to many of the Bulgarian municipalities many MPs have made their proposals. I would like to ask the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, as well as the President of the Committee on Regional Development, and I think that they would understand me. For some of them, there are prepared and tender procedures, because these procedures and these infrastructure projects could be financed and fulfil at least some of the possible commitments that will be made with this budget due to technical collateralisation. There's something else I'd like to add to that. I have nowhere in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for 2022 saw no funds for the construction of an extremely important infrastructure project for Northwestern Bulgaria... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Namely, it is about the infrastructure project on the road Vidin "Botevgrad," which was started and which has in its first half a hundred percent technical and documentary collateralisation, as well as procedures carried out, and in the second half there is 99% collateralisation. If they had finished their work, the previous two governments, we would now have issued building permits. In this budget, I didn't see that amount at stake. My question is to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works: how does he intend to complete this infrastructure site, which is extremely important for Northwestern Bulgaria; does he consider it to be finished and what is being done according to the procedures that stopped at the level of a judicial appeal and for which only alienation is imminent? I'm sorry I'm talking to an empty room, and I'm sorry the Minister isn't here. I hope to get an answer sometime.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1019	Mrs. Kirova, more than a minute...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1020	Sorry about the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1021	Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1022	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs Kirova. The monocentric model for development in the country's territory is a model that we noticed as early as 2010, when GERB entered the country's governance, then began serious analyses of how we can overcome this model. It has moved on to a model of polycentric development and it is currently fully embedded in the updated national concept of spatial development. In this direction, we can actually say that we have 10 large municipalities on the territory of the country that can be considered growth centres, and therefore a periphery that should be, figuratively speaking, pulled out by large municipalities in a good economic development. This will, of course, reduce migration processes, lead to an opportunity between different municipalities to make joint projects and thus achieve the so-called economic development model. Regarding the large municipalities, I would say that, of course, one of them is exactly the Municipality of Vidin and in this direction is actually my question to you, in so far as in the new programming period, if the Operational Programme for the Development of Regions is approved soon by the European Commission, that is to say, first it is submitted by the ruling coalition, and then it is approved by the European Commission, whether the Municipality of Vidin is ready and ready to apply with ready technical and work projects, but in collaboration with other municipalities that can be neighbouring to the territory of Vidin Municipality and can be, of course, within different municipalities within the territory of the entire Northwestern region. In fact, this is also the main direction for implementing an integrated investment model, because through a partnership between municipalities and a different combination of funds not only under the regional programme, but also in all other operational programmes, we can achieve a more targeted effect related to the country's economic development. Thank you. Sorry about the overdue time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1023	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Is there another line? Here you go, Mrs. Kirova. I'm asking you to take into account the time frame for the backrest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1024	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. I am familiar with the spatial concept of development in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the polycentric model that is at stake. It was precisely in this regard that my speech and my serious concern was that there are extremely insufficient funds at stake, which are precisely for the development of the regions and which should be used to implement the polycentric scheme, which takes time to overcome the differences between the different municipalities. In this regard, I cannot say exactly what is the readiness of Vidin Municipality with projects, although I know that they are working on such projects, but definitely what worries me very much is that in this way our proposed budget is not at the moment and there is no indication in any way, it is not clear that the Development Programme of the Regions, which is 2021, will not receive refinancing in 2022. We are already marking two zero years with regard to the Development Programme of the Regions as a start. We will mark a safe and zero year in terms of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, because we have already missed the opportunity to take advantage of an advance payment. In other words, anything that starts to be implemented under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan will actually be financed by the national budget. If this plan is tabled and approved, it will probably be submitted at some stage. I am talking about the edited Plan, not the one that has been tabled by the caretaker government, but the final Plan of this Government will surely be tabled, but I am not convinced that it will be approved by the end of the year, which puts us in an extremely impossible position to implement all policies relating to the development of the regions and, more precisely, related to the development of those poorly developed peripheral parts of the country which have obtained their status thanks to a 30-year policy of ignoring the state in full. The state owes these regions, and what we should do together is not here 20 people in this room, by the way, do you know what I miss and will end, because I see that what I am saying is interesting to me and to you, Mrs. Nikolova, nobody cares about the audience, first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1025	I'm listening, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1026	Thank you very much. I thank my colleagues from the DPS, listen with interest and we will cooperate on this subject. Thank you. What worries me very much in this case is this: it concerns me that this format is actually called debate. In my life, I've collided and touched the primos of theatre and art. Between monologue and dialogue, I make a difference. Between a debate and stories from a village dinner, I also make a difference. Between promises like a rural wedding and a realistic budget, I also make a difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1027	Mrs. Kirova, you promised me you'd comply this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1028	I'm sorry, but I can't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1029	Mrs Adlen Shevked, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1030	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, my speech will be a bit complex because, unfortunately, neither the Minister of Regional Development nor the President of the Regional Policy Committee of the National Assembly is present here. He himself about an hour and a half ago, in the middle of the night, so a late-night editorial amendment made, with which an editorial amendment increased the amount of new obligations that could be borne by nearly 3 billion. In this case, because I really don't understand it, because the last 12 years, I guess most of you have traveled to Greece and passed through Macaza. This time, which was built, is saturated with many road accidents, with victims and wounded. One of the most dangerous sections along this road is located between Kardzhali and Momchilgrad and it is located right at the intersection near the village of Gluhar, as the approach to the main road is quite problematic. I suppose that these costs, which are borne in the long term for at least three years, told me also the colleagues who are also from the Ministry of Finance, but as I see them are also gone. I suppose that our old request also to the government of GERB and I hope that the current government will pay attention to the thousands of victims, I say: thousands of victims who died on this path. I'm guessing that the 3 billion is most likely at stake there to be designed and built at this intersection near the village of Gluhar circular movement. I will therefore ask you, Mr President, at least the President of the Regional Commission, who made this technical adjustment, to be so good and to answer me in addition to the other ideas that are laid down in the Regional Ministry's Programme, have most likely also had this section as an ideal project to put money on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1031	Thank you, Mrs. Shevked. For a line, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1032	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Shevked, I fully agree with your statement and your suggestions. I just want to ask you, does this include a ring road in the town of Kardzhali? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1033	Thank you, Mr. Weyselov. Mrs. Kirova for line two.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1034	Mrs. Shevked, in fact, there are three billions that were added about an hour and a half ago, which is now four to ten, making about two and a half in the middle of the night. But they have been added as an editorial amendment, and they are actually a substantive amendment in the text, and I am very interested in how it will be voted tomorrow. Moreover, in the text part of Mr. Ananiev's proposal it was announced that these were commitments, and so it was read because I listened carefully, until the end of 2022. I understand the explanation given to you by the already absent officials of the Council of Ministers, but Mr. Ananiev did not want to pay attention to what he quite kindly told Mr. Nankov how the correction should be made. Because yes, it is logical to have 3 million to make a commitment, but not for 2022, but for the next three years, when the project readiness has already been implemented and procedures have been carried out to enable these funds to be used in order and manner, which the law implies. So I sincerely hope to hear from you tomorrow in the Chamber, although perhaps the debates will be completed on this particular article. 23, which I think is extremely important, to see how the Bulgarian Parliament will vote on this editorial amendment, which is in fact essentially and which concerns only 3 billion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1035	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Third line, Mr. Bayram.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1036	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mrs. Shevked, most likely, since the Minister isn't here, this money will be distributed in the SUV, we said that before, but let me give an explanation to the new colleagues. It's about Transboundary Corridor 9. This is the road that will so say connect the White Sea with the Baltic Sea. From Makaza to the Baltic Sea passes through the town of Kardzhali. You said intense traffic in the summer, there are many travelers going to the sea from Romania, from across the country, from other European countries, going through the ring road. So we want to know if there will be a ring road, as colleague Weyselov asked. But there are other very important two projects, namely the expansion of the road to Makaza from the town of Kardzhali, which passes through the village of Gluhar, and the roundabout movement there and the other, the road from Kardzhali to Haskovo, the expansion of this road with rehabilitation. Without carrying out this rehabilitation and extension, the promises they made by the ruling majority for a tunnel will be meaningless. Most likely the only tunnel to be made is on the sandbox outside the building of Kiril Petkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1037	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. For the back, Mrs. Shevked.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1038	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your lines, fellow Members. Mr. Weyselov, the road around Kardzhali is a long-standing dream of all residents of Kardzhali and Kardzhali Municipality and Kardzhali District, to be exact. As far as we have information from the pre-governors, there the alienation and design procedure is closed, funding is most likely included in this 3 billion. lv. Mr. Chairman, I again appeal to the President of the Regional Commission to be here to explain to us what his idea was for this editorial amendment. Mrs. Kirova, thank you for your line. Yes, indeed, in order to prepare this long-term programme, although colleagues from the Ministry of Finance said that this is a 3-year horizon, the Regional Ministry is likely to have a design readiness and for the extension of the road I am already responding to my colleague Bajram, the Haskovo road Kardzhali, most likely the extension of Corridor No 9 with the crossings with circular movement is also included. Most likely, but, unfortunately, everything around 4:00 a.m. is only in the area of conjecture. I ask you very frankly and politely, Mr. President, if the Minister of Regional Development cannot be present, then at least Mr. Ananiev, who is the President of the Regional Commission of Parliament, let him be so kind as to be present in the Chamber and explain to us what the purpose of these long-term commitments was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1039	Thank you, Mrs. Shevked. Ms. Denitsa Sacheva is listed for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1040	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, despite the time we are present, I take the floor for the budget of the Agricultural Academy and the proposal we have made for an additional 7 million. BGN, as the proposal for these additional 7 million. lv. refers to the request of the scientific staff, workers and employees of the Dobrudjan Agricultural Institute in the city of General Toshevo. I myself am a MP from Dobrich, so I have an obligation to bring this subject up in front of the parliamentary platform. The increase foreseen in the current budget for the Dobrudzhan Agricultural Institute, in particular for the Agricultural Academy, is only 773 thousand. 800 BGN, which will be extremely insufficient even to cover the increase of the minimum monthly salary, and at the Academy almost 50% of the workers receive exactly minimum wage. Unfortunately, under this budget, an adequate remuneration cannot be guaranteed and taking into account inflation, the need to detain researchers and attract young personnel and store all staff will be extremely difficult. It is high time to understand that in order to fulfil all these commitments we make in terms of teachers, teachers, academic staff, scientific research, the development of an academic staff, we must make sure that the Agricultural Academy has the opportunity for real realization. What I can tell you about the Dobrudjan Agricultural Institute is that it is the largest unit in the system of the Agricultural Academy, and what the workers, the scientific staff and the employees in it want is completely realistic. In 2022, in the event of a tendency to increase the minimum wage, inflation, a drastic increase in the consumables of agricultural production requires additional funds not only for remuneration, but also those additional means by which research can be carried out. What assistants and researchers have asked for is worth 7 million. lv. and therefore we have proposed it in this budget, following the budget of the Agricultural Academy to be at least 39 million. Three hundred and thirty-one We are aware that at the moment this budget could be difficult to correct, but surely the Dobrudzhan Agricultural Institute is ready to move into active long-term protest actions if their demands are therefore not met and we hope that during the final decision on what the budget should be, our proposal will also be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1041	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Are there any lines, coworkers? I can't see. Mr. Enchev for speaking. Then Professor Angelov was enrolled and he was the last on the list.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1042	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My compliments to you and to Mr. Chairman about patience on that day. I will address the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works quite in the context of the topics discussed today. I think that such a budget as is provided for and with the addition of Mr. Ananiev, I suppose that every minister of regional development dreamed of having and being able to work on it. Unfortunately, I am obliged to express my concerns on several subjects. First of all, in the Regional Commission, I learned from the Minister that he is ready with.. I do not want to be precise, I do not claim this, but over 350 projects for serious amounts which, as we all know, should be financed under the Public Procurement Act. Here I would like to address the people who have been administrators in the ministries for many years and have managed ministries, asking if it has ever happened in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for over a million, say, no complaints under the Public Procurement Act, respectively to the KPC, the Supreme Administrative Court and so on? I say this because I am afraid that the wonderful budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works will hardly be implemented and the projects will hardly happen in 2022. I am deeply worried that they will not even be able to start. Therefore, I will not be very talkative, I would very much like the colleagues who have had the pleasure to manage the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Finance and so on, perhaps to support me in their concerns whether this wonderful budget of the Ministry is not a simple buffer in the general budget and whether these amounts, which are so ambitiously laid down, will not end without any project that will start in this year, at least because we will start work, as you see now is the end of February, the budget itself will start in April and I have serious concerns that the construction season, which in the Republic of Bulgaria is not that big, may not be realized at all for these projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1043	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. For a line, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1044	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Enchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll mingle in two minutes, very briefly. Yeah, that's the main concern we had. I, in my speech on the topic and on the budget of MRRB in art. 29 I did and expressed the same concern. This concern spoke, by the way, and Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov of Regional Commission. He mentioned the huge risk that exists in front of the MRDP in terms of the absorption of these funds, which is almost 2.5 billion. BGN, as these 378.. is the exact figure that he quoted, the site is not all of them with design readiness, by the way, even for one of them no public procurement was launched, nor for the new contracts on current repair and maintenance......... with the annexes that entered into the office.... this office last year expires July........................................................................................................................... 200 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the It is only lawful and only on the starting or already executing sections in contracts during our term of office, the last regular before this. Everything else as project ideas will happen in 2023, 2024 and forward in time. And that's why, Mr. Enchev, and that's why! I do not see any bridges or tunnels other than Shipka, for which we have again provided his design readiness, and we have provided the tender documents as a procedure, Grozdan Karadzhov signed the contract. The only tunnel to be implemented with the 2022 budget. Partly, of course, not in fullness is the tunnel under Shipka. For bridges we do not comment, and a large part of these funds are either a buffer, or will indeed remain in the budget balance as the biggest deficit at the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1045	Thank you, Mr. Nankov. A line? From Rositsa Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1046	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Enchev, I would like to draw your attention to something that is extremely important when we talk about deadlines, about project implementation and in general about the process of projects that are... if we start from those of national importance to projects that are of regional importance. It is very important how, with what desire procedures are carried out, who and to what extent is committed to really reaching their end and ending with a building permit. We all know that the procedures are long enough, and yes, it is not realistic what is at stake, it will not be able to be implemented by the end of 2022, but it will not be able to be implemented by the end of 2025. As a matter of fact, from the so-set management programme on large infrastructure sites, not a single bridge and no tunnel of what has been promised will be able to be implemented within the 4-year management mandate. But with good wishes, it will be possible to implement both the Shipka Tunnel, which has already begun and is fully designed and ordered, and the Petrohan Tunnel, for which a large part of the procedures have been carried out and for which, to my great personal regret, because I have been engaged in this thing for several years, in the last 10 months, the public procurement for preparing an environmental impact report and the feasibility study has not been awarded. That's it! However, if this is done, if there is a desire by the Road Infrastructure Agency, by the Ministry of Transport, this project could be implemented and there will be two tunnels implemented, yes, it is true, unprepared and uninitiated by this government, but still realized. I will be very happy because one of them will connect my home ending with the rest of Bulgaria and is extremely important for Corridor No 4, of course. In this regard, I would like to point out to you and to draw your attention to the following, it is up to all of us to get those in charge to do their job. This, by the way, was also about the previous management, and the previous one was about everyone before that. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It is up to the citizens, as well as the representatives of the various political formations and those present in parliament...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1047	Time, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1048	Thanks, I'm done. ...to get those in charge to do their job.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1049	Thank you. Is there a third line? I won't. For the doppelganger? No. Will there be any other speeches? All right, Professor, come on in. [[Replication of the National Representative Rositsa Kirova.]] He didn't have a duvet. He didn't want Mr. Enchev's doppelganger, so Mr. Angelov didn't want a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1050	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take account of art. The Ministry of Agriculture, in particular related to the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, which is a single body for control of food safety and quality in the Republic of Bulgaria. It was established in 2011 and is responsible for the implementation of standards in the field of food safety and quality, food supplements and beverages, animal health and animal welfare, plant protection and fertilisers, plant health control, feed, border control and others. From all that I have said, ladies and gentlemen, a very clear and serious question arises. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, based on preliminary information, when the structure of the Council of Ministers was presented, passed from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to the Council of Ministers. The same is happening with the Executive Forest Agency. The Executive Forest Agency is this agency currently managed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. In this agency today Deputy Prime Minister Ninova was telling about the production of wood how people will be appointed to chop wood and sell them at a lower price to Bulgarian citizens, but... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1051	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1052	...this agency will also move to the Council of Ministers. In the same proposal, in the structure of the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and for the two agencies in line, the figures reflected in the part of the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture are the figures reflected in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, and at the same time the same amount is mirrored in the pero. That is why the budget of the Council of Ministers is increasing by nearly 100 million. lv. for staff to meet the needs of these two agencies. Now, Mr. Chairman, I have a question for representatives of the Ministry of Finance. I don't know if it's the Deputy Minister, until recently they were, I don't know if they're here right now and I'm going to insist on this question to be answered: is it possible that the two food and forest safety agencies are both in the budget at the same time in two places? Is it possible, provided that the transfer of the two agencies from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Council of Ministers has not been voted on, to allow staff costs for the two agencies to be incurred in the budget of the Council of Ministers? Are two laws broken here, namely the Law on Administrative Acts and the Law on Public Finance? To this question, I will demand an answer because, if so, I need one of the two budgets in its expenditure section to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1053	Thank you, Professor. I don't see any lines to Professor Angelov. There are no other people who wish to speak. I hereby terminate the discussion by art. Art. 23, Art. 27. The vote on them and including the proposed legal and technical amendments will be in the next meeting, which will take place in a few hours. We move on to the following provisions of the State Budget Act. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov or Mr. Sabrutev? Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1054	Under art. 28 has a proposal of the MP Mladen Marinov and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-57: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 28, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: (a) Art. 28, para. 1, II "Costs' is replaced by "Costs' and "Costs'. (b) Art. 28, para. 1, t. 2 "Capital expenditures" (the number "7 300") is replaced by "10 000" (the number of) "0" (the number is replaced by "10 000" (the number of expenditures) and "the number of expenditures" (the number of expenditures) is replaced by (c) Art. 28, para. 1, t. 2.1 "Acquirement of fixed assets and major renovations" the number "seven hundred thousand, zero, is replaced by one hundred thousand, zero, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, two hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, (d) Art. 28, para. 1, t. 3.1 "Budget relations with the central budget" (the number of the central budget) is replaced by the number of the central budget (the number of the central budget (the budget) of the budget (the number of the budget) of the budget (the budget) of the budget (the budget)) of the budget (the budget) of the budget) (the number of the (e) Art. 28, para. 2, p. 1 &amp; row "Everything' is replaced by "Everything'; (f) Art. 28, para. 3, p. the maximum amount of the costs commitments that can be committed in 2022 and the number of the commitment to be made in 2022 shall be replaced by the maximum amount of the cost commitments that may be incurred in 2022. (g) Art. 28, para. 3, p. 2 and row "maximum amount of the new costs that can be accumulated in 2022'; the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32. Under art. 33 has a proposal of the MP Mladen Marinov and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-57: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 33, para. 1, II, the following amendments shall be made: (a) Art. 33, para. 1, II "Costs' is replaced by "Costs' by "Costs'; (b) Art. 33, para. 2, II "Capital expenditures" (the number "800,0") is replaced by "1 500," (c) Art. 33, para. 1, II, t 2.1 (d) Art. 33, para. 1, III "Budget relationships" (the number " 47 856, 3") is replaced by "48 556, 3" (the number is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the number" (the number) "the number" is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the number" (e) Art. 33, para. 1, III t. 1 "Budget relations with a central budget" (the number "47 856, 3") is replaced by "48 556, 3" (the number is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the number" and "the number" is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the number" is (f) Art. 33, para. 2, p. 1 the number "s48 156, 3' is replaced by "s48 856, 3'; (g) Art. 33, para. 3, p. 1 et c. 2 the number..4 600.0...is replaced by.5 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33. Under art. 34 has a proposal of the MP Mladen Marinov and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-57: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 34, para. 1, III, the following amendments shall be made: (a) Art. 34, para. 1, II "Costs' is replaced by.43,627,7 "Costs'; (b) Art. 34, para. 1, t. 2. 1 "Capital costs' the number "950.0' is replaced by "1 500.0'; (c) Art. 34, para. 1, I, t. 2.1, "Acquiring of DMAs and major repairs' is replaced by "Accommodation of DMAs' and "Accommodation of DMAs'; (d) Art. 34, para. 1, III, t. 1. The number of the budget relationships is '43 627, 7' is replaced by '44 177, 7'; (e) Art. 34, para. 1, III, t. 1 "Budget relations with a central budget" (the number "43 627," 7 ") is replaced by "44 177," 7 (the number) is replaced by "the number" (the number) "the number" is replaced by "the number" (the number" is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the number" (the number) "the number" is replaced by "the number" is (f) Art. 34, para. 2, p. 1 &amp; row "Everything' is replaced by "Everything'; (g) Art. 34, para. 3, p. 1 the number s..11 586, 0s. is replaced by.12, 136, 0s. (h) Art. 34, para. 3, p. 2 the number "s 12 492, 0 "s' is replaced by "s 13 042, 0 "s'; The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37. Under art. 38 has a proposal from MP Lyubomir Karimanski and a group of MPs, No 47 254 04 141: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 38 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: - On item II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 35000. - What do you mean? 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - What do you mean? 1.1. the number - What do you mean? 2 "Capital costs' (the number "140,0') is replaced by "80,0' (the number is replaced by "80,0'); - What do you mean? 2.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - On item III. "Budget relationships (Transfers) - (+/-) " the number - What do you mean? 1. The budget budget for the central budget (+/-) is replaced by the number for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget. 2. In para. The following amendments shall be made: - What do you mean? 1 "Functional Region ": Regulation of the Radio and Television Market " is replaced by the - In line "Everything:" "supplied" the number "supplied" 2 693,9" is replaced by "supplied" 2 533,9 "supplied" 3. In para. 3 the following amendments shall be made: - What do you mean? 1 The maximum amount of the expenditure commitments that can be made in 2022 shall be replaced by the maximum amount of the expenditure commitments that can be made in 2022. - What do you mean? 2 - Maximum amount of the new cost obligations that can be accumulated in 2022 - the number..834,4.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 38: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45. Under § 46, there is a proposal of the MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-45: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 46, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in row II, the cost is increased by 208 964.8 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (b) in row 1. The amount of current expenditures is increased by 208 964.8 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (c) of row 1.1. The amount is increased by 8 964.8 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (d) of row 2.1. The amount increased by 200,000,0 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (e) of row 2.1.1. The amount increased by 200 000 000,0 thousand to other current transfers to non-financial corporations. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (f) of line III "Budget relationships (transfers) - (+/-) " the sum increased by 208 964.8 thousand. lv. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. The following amendments shall be made: (a) of row 1. The amount increased by 208 964.8 thousand by the Ministry of Agriculture in the field of agriculture and rural areas. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • b) of line supposed to all:supplies the amount increased by 208 964.8 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-115: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 46 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in point II (b) in point II "Costs', point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, is replaced by the following: 1 "Current expenditures" (the (c) in item II 1. "Current expenditures', i.e. 1.2. "Subsidies and other current transfers', etc. 1.2.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (d) in item III "Budget relationships (transfers) - (+/-) "the number................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (e) in point III "Budget relationships (transfers) '. 1. The budget of the budget for the central budget (+/) is replaced by the number of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the European Central Bank of the European Union and of the European Central Bank of the European Union and of the European Union for the financial year of the financial year of the (f) Relevant changes to art. 1, para. 2. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 "Politicals of the Ministry of Agriculture in the field of agriculture and rural areas" (the number..486,86848,4.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. b) of line (c) To make appropriate changes to art. 1, para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48. Under art. 49 has a proposal from MP Lyubomir Karimanski and a group of MPs, No 47 254 04 141: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 49 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 "Bulgarian National Radio" (Български Национална "Продукти") is replaced by "Прективане" (Български Национална могацински могазински пологация) 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2. "Bulgarian National Television" (Bulgarian National Television) is replaced by 80 553.5 ". The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 49: Art. 49. Determines budgetary relations with the central budget for 2022 of the Bulgarian National Radio, Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency as follows: [[According to the table.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1055	We agreed to 49. I apologize. You've read the entire article. 49. Okay, thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Simeonov. Excellent pace. I am opening a discussion on members from 28 to 49 inclusive. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1056	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am dealing with a very serious topic, unfortunately, at four and a half in the morning, in relation to the budget of the State Fund for Agriculture. I would like to present the motives of our parliamentary group in relation to our proposal. Colleagues, the resources allocated as State aid and as a kind of measure for the sector are too insufficient during so many crises before farmers. We, therefore, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, propose an increase in the amount of State aid by another 200 million, which is to increase aid in support of liquidity to overcome the negative economic impact on farmers. The ceiling of payments in the form of de minimis is 25 thousand. EUR, and given that many farmers have benefited from them over time and have already fulfilled their commitment under this measure, but there are other forms of support that our country has notified. Agriculture is in an unprecedented crisis. Significant increases in energy prices, fertilisers, raw materials and materials leave farmers in all sectors unable to cover their costs. In the business sector, they are at a lower rate of price increases of final production than the increase in demand. In livestock production, the yield is negative because of the increase in electricity costs by about 55%, of feed costs by an average of about 30. This percentage varies in individual livestock holdings and reaches an increase of 45%. The wage costs increased by 18% without taking into account the new higher levels of minimum wage and minimum social security threshold, against the backdrop of this increase in production prices by only 2%. The situation in the sector is similar. Fertilizers prices reported their sharpest increase in the last 10 years, with an increase of more than 250%. Higher prices of plant protection preparations are also a major problem for fruit and vegetable production. Gas and energy price hikes significantly limit the greenhouse production of vegetables in the country and the cost of production is about 45% higher. Bulgarian farmers are in a difficult situation, which requires timely and higher amounts of State aid. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, our neighbouring countries have fulfilled their function to respond to the urgent needs of their farmers and to compensate for their extraordinary costs so that they can develop their activities and consume the production produced in their country. It is time to do this in Bulgaria too, so I ask you to support our proposal so that the Ministry of Agriculture can respond to the needs of our farmers and preserve our native production and our native herds. Colleagues, farmers are engaged in one of the most important activities in the country. Especially farmers work 365 days a year and really in order to preserve the traditions in our production and to consume clean food produced in Bulgaria, we need timely support in this sector. To keep our rural areas alive, this assistance is needed. Please support our proposal to increase the amount of State aid by 200 million. The sector is looking forward to this support. In this sector there are voters of all parliamentary parties represented in the National Assembly. I therefore count that the mind will be within us after 9:00 and we will indeed be able to support this emergency aid with State aid for the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1057	Thank you, Mrs. Mehmedova. Are there any lines to Imren Mehmedova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1058	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Mehmedova, my reply to you relates to the one-time support for micro-farmers for which 5 million are provided. lv. as per art. 1, para. 5. These funds will be sufficient to support over 5000 farmers, and according to the estimates of the NRA, the registered farmers, which are provided with the minimum insurance income, are 31,000. It is in this regard that it is extremely important to support the proposal which the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is presenting with regard to farmers in order to protect them from bankruptcy. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1059	Thank you, Mrs. Kabak. Another line to Mrs. Mehmedova? I can't see. A hole? No. Thank you. From the group of GERB-SDS "Desislava Taneva." [[Heckling]] I have recorded Desislava Taneva, Denitsa Sacheva, Alexander Ivanov and Alexander Nenkov, so at your discretion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1060	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! I'm sorry it's already at this hour, but the subject is extremely important and very interesting, by the way, so I have to justify the proposal made under art. 46. It concerns the budget of the Fund for Agriculture, concerning two policies. The first, the support of farmers; and the second, income policy. Starting from the second, reciprocally on our proposal to the Ministry of Agriculture system. Here we have proposed an increase in incomes in the State Fund of Agriculture, they have fallen behind in recent years by 8 million. lv. The other proposal, which is most interesting, is an increase in the support of farmers by 200 million. lv. I am really sorry that the finance minister is not here to make this debate with him, too, because at first glance, the proposed project says: the farmers are being given 150 million. lv. more than the regular budget for 2021. But this is only at first glance. Firstly, we have made an update, already, I think it was your government or the previous official in some of the parliaments at the end of last year, and we have provided an increase of 70 million. Or the net increase in the proposed project now compared to 2021 is 80 million. I'm opening a clamp. The European Commission provided the Member States with a set of support tools, part of which was Bulgaria's initiative, when the breed pandemic started. We have also changed on our own initiative and horizontal Regulation 13/05. This gave us the opportunity to program a special measure, everything we paid off, but anyway. Summarizing the 2020 direct support of the order around 100,000 farmers we provided in more than 350 million. lv. Or the proposed budget, under the current price crisis, for farmers will not even reach the levels of direct support for farmers from 2020. At the same time, Imren gave enough data, we will not burden ourselves with additional data. The numbers are freaking out. The sector is working at loss levels, which will force soon in practice a reduction in the size of management decisions due to non-retention of the market. What is special about this sector in Bulgaria? This across Europe is the highest industrial sector with the largest volume of economic unit per farm. The second sector with the highest loss at the moment is the poultry farming, especially the meat industry, there are also levels of loss currently very high, second after pig farming. Small poultry farms no longer charge for a new crop, everyone is waiting to see what the support of the state will be, where the balance can be found, to seek the management decision how to move forward. What is special about this sector in Bulgaria. This across Europe is the highest industrial sector with the largest volume of economic unit per farm. The dairy cattle and buffalo farming next at the level of loss. We're only talking about a negative yield that's being generated right now. And, colleagues, here in the previous debate quoted yes, the truth is that slaughterhouses currently have schedules of destruction, liquidation of small farms, especially cattle, including elite herds. In practice, political instability in the last year has led to the fact that farmers have not received a single lev of extraordinary support, and prices have started to increase enormously in inputs, materials and energy sources. Given that the vast majority, the majority of these nearly 100,000 farmers are practically small and small, without liquidity accumulated, this makes it impossible to stay in the sector. Support for them is in extremely urgent order and tension is already felt. It is also felt by your minister in this new cabinet. Just one more example I want to give, which is different from the colleague Imren Mehmedova, and not to mention today's new prices on the markets, which we will see further how they will balance in principle after these events today. Fourteen-and-a-half million acres of autumn we've got caught up in. For autumn events only, the increase in the cost of decare is 235% and additional extraordinary support is zero. It is very necessary, and you will understand it yourself, but in a more difficult way also when updating, if not by other exceptional means, you will have to provide additional funds for staying in the small farmers sector. So my request is, if there is communication with the Finance Minister, let's explain this. He quotes that he has given a maximum budget, but a copy of the measure under the Commission's temporary framework is only one of the instruments on which state support is allocated in this budget of 450 million. BGN, and now an average of 300 years. I don't see anything funny honest to tell you, and the more we go into detail and we have the motivation of different proposals, the better. I am glad that, although it is at 4:00 am, I can still state the reasons for this, supported by official statistics from official statistical sources in Bulgaria. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1061	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Some calls were because time was up, but as you can see, I didn't make a single remark, I didn't signal you, I meant. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1062	I am very sorry, Mr. Chairman, but because it is indeed a very serious issue for the sector. Dear Mrs. Taneva, we all know very well that there are many State aids notified by the European Union. I didn't say that for a reason. I would therefore also like to say to my fellow Members how important this increase in the budget of the Fund is, so that we can really untie the hands of Minister Ivanov and be able to help the sector............................................................................ My fellow Members, I really do rely on the mind within you to prevail and really help this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1063	Thank you, Mrs. Mehmedova. Any other lines to Dessislava Taneva? Here you are, Mrs. Shevked, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1064	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Taneva, my line to you is: in art. 6 of the Code of Social Security, and, no, there is one particular text. 10, I'll allow myself to read it to you. If I find him, I'm sorry, but I have plenty of time. There's plenty of time by 9:00. [[Heckling]] The text recorded in CSR is mainly related to farmers. The budget of state social security we voted on and there farmers were accused of making an insufficient contribution to the social and pension system. My question to you is because the text that is written in the Code, they are not entitled to equalize the end of the year's insurance contributions, even if they have made a higher income than the one on which they have paid advance contributions. In the Social Assistance Code, the registered farmers, tobacco producers producing unprocessed plant and/or animal production do not fix the final amount of the insurance income for this activity. The contributions to these persons may be paid by the support funds for farmers under the order laid down by the Council of Ministers. My reply to you is whether we could help the work of the Council of Ministers to set a order in which to assist farmers if they have made a higher income than the one on which they have made advance contributions to help the farmer in order for his contribution to the social system to be greater? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1065	Thank you. Is there a third line to Dessislava Taneva? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1066	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mrs. Taneva! As a former minister, I would like you to explain whether, since our parliamentary group will support this proposal of yours, I want to know whether these aids include tobacco producers and potato producers, because I, as a representative of the Blagoevgrad constituency, is the main livelihood of the population. With what my colleague Shevked told you just now, with these high thresholds of insurance income, after we lost over 70,000 registered producers within 9 years, and they certainly went abroad because we have surveillance on that. Now that in the new budget, this thing is being done by the government, we will lose at least another 20,000. Souls. They will also secure the carriers of Terminal 1 and 2 and will go to work in Spain, England and Germany. I am particularly interested in whether these funds provide funds for tobacco producers and potato producers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1067	Thank you, Mr. Kulkov. A hole, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1068	I'll start with an answer backwards. The budget shall provide for any means normally allocated to notified State aid by 2020, including national transitional aid. In 2022, it was the last tobacco producer. It has become possible for these two years - 2021 and 2022 thanks to Bulgaria's initiative in connection with the transitional regulation, which was voted in the European Parliament, supported by all MEPs, including those of BSP and DPS, which have them because the other groups do not. There Bulgaria demonstrated unity and on our other initiative for 1305, where I spoke. In terms of potato producers. The subject that you are concerned with because it really affects many farmers - about 2500 - are those who are involved in potato production, who are also beneficiaries of tied support, which gave the most essential part of the support for this. The funds are European there. In this package, there is in principle no state aid specifically notified for support beyond that for combating the field worm, and it is again provided for in this budget. For potatoes, as at the end of last year they are excluded as an opportunity for support in the Annex to the tied support Regulation. Currently, Bulgaria's strategic plan has been prepared and will be surrendered after the last TWG, with potatoes included. Whether and how it will be approved by the Commission is yet to be understood. If it is not approved as it would be contrary to the basic act, there is no problem that an amount of the same amount will be notified and proven to the Commission. It's the government's will and decision now, but he's gonna need extra money for that, too. Such additional aid funds are not, in fact, provided for in this package. I'm going to Mrs. Shevked's question, as he surprised me, I'm not responsible for social legislation, the text you read without me reading it, it can't be applied. I opposed the proposal to increase the minimum social income of farmers. In this difficult year, where at risk in principle from the price balances of raw materials, the energy sources for the production of agricultural production are at risk of remaining in the small sector, this was the most inappropriate solution as a time plan. The five million additionally voted, the positive thing is that they will go back to the support budget, but they cannot definitely be granted for the payment of social security contributions. That's definite. On the contrary, in order to pay any help, you must first have a certificate that you paid all taxes. Yes, with this amount they can provide support.. State aid. Under these rules, by the end of this year, they have very little time for this. We wait after April the regulations and there will be the new conditions for 2023. Yes, they can notify such aid and use this resource, how much it will be, I do not know, but this is not how the recording can be realized at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1069	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. The entries are Denitsa Sacheva, Alexander Ivanov and Alexander Nenkov. Here you go, Mrs. Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1070	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Radio, noise and lines.]] Do not doubt, Mr. Chenchev, that we will have enough procedures and speeches for the debate. I take note of the proposals we have made in art. 28, 33 and 34. These are the funds and financial budgets for DANS, NSA and DAR. Given the situation we are in, given the alarming information that each of us can now track in social media, I think it is extremely important to pay attention to strengthening our security services. What we have prepared and tabled as a proposal is therefore to increase the DANS budget by 2 million. And 700,000. BGN, NSO with 700 thousand. lv. And the DAR with 550 thousand. BGN, mainly these funds are intended for fixed tangible assets and major repairs, to increase technical collateralisation and develop capacity for implementation of basic policies for protection of national security, information and analytical provision of the government, supporting the decision-making process. We believe that this is extremely important, especially at this time, in order to ensure the protection of the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria and to ensure the safety of the protected sites and persons. We hope that these proposals will be addressed with sufficient attention. Again, given the situation at the moment, I believe that our proposal is not to be overlooked and passed lightly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1071	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sacheva. Are there any lines to Denitsa Sacheva? I won't. For speech Alexander Ivanov or Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1072	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Thank you for your patience for giving this opportunity to the opposition, albeit in front of an empty room, half empty and to colleagues missing from the Council of Ministers. Colleagues, the texts so read do not show much change in the budgets of the same departments last year. This does not make a good request especially at the moment when we really commented on the many inflation processes in Bulgaria and indeed the income policy that we do not see in the proposed budget of the Council of Ministers and in these texts. But you did it to me, coworkers. I got lost because 20 members we read in a bunch, in row 1.1. In the debate that we recently had in this House, one of the arguments of our colleagues, the leaders of the majority responsible, which was for reducing, a member of change, the main idea then was to change the composition of the KEWRC, I will not say if you want to put people in this room, you then stated clearly with this shift that you were taking responsibility with your appointments to the KEWR with what decisions to make, as not an independent body, but as a political one. That was the subject of another debate. But then one of the arguments, colleagues that fellow importers had pointed out in this amendment to the Energy Act, was that savings would be made on expenditure, and precisely by staff. If there was a Minister of Energy here, perhaps one of the importers is here precisely on the Energy and Water Regulatory Act, which we changed, to tell me if he saw the money saved, to do it as a replica, I would be grateful to him, to give me a line on how much money was saved, and I would be able to answer him with regard to the staff costs that the KEWRC offered with this budget, colleagues, whether you would actually make such costs, or if it was just an empty promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1073	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines for Alexander Ivanov? None Here you go, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1074	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take account of art. 49 of the State Budget Act, namely the BNT budget. Bulgaria's national television network "We all know its role in relation to the structural-determining organizations related to national security." I want to read art. 44, para. 2 of the Law on Radio and Television, which states that the state takes the necessary measures to ensure the distribution of the programmes of BNR and BNT throughout the country in the implementation of electronic communications policy. The license, which holds BNT, describes in detail its television programs and the number of television hours it has to realize. The regulations for one television hour and its size are also regulated. Then, when the hours recorded in BNT's license are multiplied according to the regulations of a television hour, the amount to be allocated to the state to ensure the state policy, as described in the Law on Radio and Television in art. 44. The draft budget proposed by the Budget Committee shall be proposed in accordance with point 1. 2 The Bulgarian National Television (Bulgarian National Television) is the number 82 553.5 thousand. lv. replace 80 553.5 thousand. lv. This means to decrease by 2 million. lv. the budget of the Bulgarian National Television. And this, notice, without changing the number of hours in the license, which was issued to the Bulgarian National Television, and without changing the regulatory regulations for one television hour. We restrict the legal obligations of the Bulgarian National Television, regulated in art. 44, para. 2 of the Law on Radio and Television. In this regard, our proposal is the proposed text of page 1. 160 The first sentence in this page, where No 2 is. 2 The Bulgarian national television station, this whole row to be dropped. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1075	On page 1, page 1, 160.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1076	Point 2, first sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1077	Lyubomir Karimanski's proposal and a group of MPs. Two down.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1078	Point two, drop it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1079	As the proposal is supported and is consequently incorporated into the text proposed by the Commission, it is rather...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1080	Then I propose an editorial amendment to row 2 in art. The total amount of 80 553.5 should be replaced by the sum of 82 553.5.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1081	Thank you. That's what I was gonna offer you. Are there any lines to Kostadin Angelov? Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1082	Good morning, colleagues! I'm glad you're here, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman! Radio, Bulgarian National Television! Mr. Angelov, you are very emotionally defending them to be funded, only if you attended the last committee on which we discussed this topic, I am talking about the Committee on Culture and Media, the Director General of Television said he was pleased with the funding they receive, first of all. And to tell you by law what the state is obliged to do and what it did, respectively you, because you ruled the country in the previous regular government. The state then broadcasted silence on the air and this was proven on the Bulgarian National Radio. That was during your reign.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1083	Mr. Chenchev, let's finish, please, in good terms!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1084	But in a very good way, I'm finishing up, it's facts. I'm not saying anything to offend or offend anyone. We had a full temporary committee on this, and she established it. It's a fact! So I welcome your concern, but perhaps you should have exchanged a few words with the Director-General of the Bulgarian National Television and he should have explained to you about budget funding. That's all I wanted to tell you very well.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1085	Are there any other lines to Professor Angelov? A hole, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1086	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chenchev, it is my great pleasure that you give me a reply related to the Bulgarian National Television. I didn't want us to end up like this and go back in time. But I want to say something that is a philosophy that we have seen in the course of the entire budget so far. You are trying to make some types of reforms by reducing feathers in the maintenance of certain sectors. I'm gonna take a starting point from the health department right now, we're talking, there's no big reactions happening in this room, just human conversation. No one in Bulgaria is satisfied with the healthcare system.. neither the patients nor the doctors. He's not happy. Everyone's unhappy. Some are more unhappy than others. In Bulgaria there are many hospitals on average, compared with the average level of hospitals in Europe, the number of beds for active treatment, we are almost twice as many. If we follow this logic in order to reform the sector, we need to cut the health money in half and so half of the hospitals will shut themselves down. I'm saying this logic won't always work as universal. Because you pulled me on the tongue about what we did as governors, what radio silence, radio silence, and so on. I didn't want to end up like this, but I'm gonna say it because there's no way I'm not gonna say it. Then, when you ruled, not us, when you ruled many years ago in 1986, shot Chernobyl and there was a very severe radio silence, there was radio silence for weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1087	Do you remember him?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1088	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1089	I remember him, yeah. Mr. Svilenski, from a medical point of view, the conscious development of man and the memories of the past begin between the ages of four and six. So I remember. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] No, I've seen TV that didn't give anything. Thank you very much. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1090	Thank you. Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1091	Colleagues, I want to continue what Mr. Angelov said before me, because I think the subject is very important. And not because of something else, but because here there is a principle of some kind of charge where you don't like someone who manages an institution. Yesterday I had the opportunity to speak on the prosecution's budget and its reduction by 20 million. lv. Yesterday and today, on the occasion of the ruling majority's desire to reduce BNT's budget by 2 million, the situation is similar. You talked about how to analyze, make a budget and then update all the possible reforms you want to carry out to be valued. Okay, we assume you have good intentions. However, what you do where you do not like some executive director or prosecutor, or any other institution, you punish him financially. And yesterday, and today, I'm saying that it didn't have that much impact on the activities of National Television. Yes, the director may not have expressed any disagreement, because he probably expects that he will soon be replaced, but that is the subject of another conversation. The question, fellow Members, is the principle. The principle is not correct. That's a bad sign. Bulgarian national television whether there is a need for reform, there must be a need for reform, like any other working or not as well-functioning institution. He needs it! However, as in yesterday's debate, as today, I do not see what is justified in reducing the 2 million. lv. You will, of course, do so. On the occasion of what Mr. Chenchev said, however, I do not remember what came up as opinions from the Commission, which was created, but somehow I did not like this myth, which during the time of GERB, when he was ruling, almost the media were so favorable to GERB. To tell you the truth, I don't have that kind of memory, much less the same case you're talking about. For BNR I can claim and I am almost 100% sure of what I will say that we have taken a lot of criticism from this particular media. Of course you can, but in the end, my memories are very different from what you seem to remember. And to tell you the truth, if for all the blunders that have made this government in recent weeks, if it had been the management of GERB, perhaps they would not have been spared this criticism, which many media are currently saving. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1092	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any lines for Alexander Nenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1093	Mr. Chairman, I really welcome Mr. Nenkov's tone of speech. The only thing I wouldn't welcome is that he says, if memory serves, whether I remember or not. Mr. Nenkov, I remember because I was part of the Temporary Commission and then it came out in the Report you can check that the program "Should Botev" of the Bulgarian National Radio was broadcasting silence on the air and that is why I say it. Then Mr. Alexander Simov and I were representatives of the Temporary Commission, signed the report with a special opinion. That's why I'm telling you, otherwise I wouldn't have let you know. Otherwise, there are other reasons why television or perhaps its Director-General has expressed satisfaction in terms of financing, for example, the fact that this TV "Bulgarian National Television," when we listened to the Director-General in the Commission, I tell you that again I am sure that the Director-General has come and said that the Bulgarian National Television has serious debts. These debts were accumulated because of contracts that were signed, let's say, for broadcasting the European Football Championship, of course, had been signed from now on and thus became indebted to television. Then money has been allocated to cover some of these debts. I think you'll almost agree that it is, and this can be checked because this way the debt of the National Television is reduced, and by a lot, perhaps that is why they are currently satisfied with the funding they receive. With regard to the Bulgarian National Radio, apart from that commission, which was, I remember that at the time during your management, you had made a contest for the selection of a Director-General, for which it turns out that there is a strong reason to believe that he was not regulated and this contest was not quite friendly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1094	Mr. Chenchev, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1095	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Chenchev so in the collegial way in which we are ending perhaps today's plenary day, you want to convince me that there is an administrator, a chief of administration who is pleased to reduce his budget. Well, I don't remember that for so many years. You went out and said that the Director General of BNT came and said: great, you'll cut my budget by 2 million. That's right, isn't it? I, of course, bring a little irony, naturally, into the good spirit in which the dialogue began. However, in my opinion, time here will show whether or not it is the figure of the Director-General. Naturally, you should know that this does not punish any director, the director will not be changed in any way the status, because this money will go for alimony or any other expenses for the television concerned. I have just told you that just the very way of sanctioning itself, because for me this is some kind of penalty by reducing the budgets of the institutions concerned, supposedly in the form of some reform, but actually veiled is some kind of punishment, which does not, however, punish the Director-General, I repeat, but punishes the employees because these two million would go for something more useful, which they, of course, judge or accordingly, what we are voting on here. As for the competition that you mentioned, just to remind you that two weeks ago you chose the head of one of the most important institutions of the regulator dealing with the pricing of electricity, the price of gas, and the price of water services, namely the KEWRC, a person who, according to our views and according to what we read as legislation, does not meet the criteria that you, as a ruling majority, most likely changed because of this same person, but nevertheless this person still does not respond. And time will tell, Mr. Chenchev. I hope I'm wrong, because this is a rude violation of the Constitution and the laws of the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1096	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Last statement we have recorded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1097	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, however few have remained in this Chamber! Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry for what we did to you today, and you're sorry for us at this time to stand and work. But still...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1098	That's how you voted, Mr. Kulkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1099	I think we could have done it another way. But one thing I would like to say to you is that in the framework of yesterday's day by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we have stated that once the more important topic for yesterday is discussed, we for the budget of the state will stand still until the morning, and we will work around the clock until it is accepted. I think we've been holding on to this, and you're witnesses.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1100	Thank you. That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1101	Although entire parliamentary groups here by the ruling majority are currently not present and are sleeping sweetly at home.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1102	There are representatives, don't be like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1103	He's doing the honors of... There's a whole parliamentary group that I don't see here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1104	No, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1105	Ah, I apologize then. Then you're honored, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1106	Six out of seven parliamentary groups have representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1107	I apologize, but honor to your colleagues for resisting. However, in the spirit of Mrs. Sacheva's speech regarding the security services, because just a few hours ago, they already became 12, here were also the heads of the special services in the Republic of Bulgaria, and we had all looked at the expectation to receive objective, real and timely information about what was happening a few hundred kilometers away. Given that the activities of the State Intelligence Agency and the Military Intelligence Service are not limited to the presence of only one or two places around the world, I believe that the budgets of these services are extremely insufficient. A few years in a row with great effort funds were allocated for capital expenditure, mainly for the completion of the buildings where they are located. However, the main problem at the moment, as we have also heard from the heads of the services themselves, is the provision of funds for both the remuneration of the employees and for the material and technical provision. In order to be in sync with partner services at least, it is really necessary to provide and renew the technical arrangements for carrying out the tasks. Not to mention that both in the Bulgarian Army and in these security services the failure is huge. But finding employees for such important, specific positions and activities of remuneration in times less than what the private sector in Bulgaria offers is more than a feat. Just because we have decent women and men working in our security services, and unlike the other sectors, they don't want to show their discontent, it doesn't mean we forget about the state of our security services and look at the state of their functioning. Let us invite the services, already the Council of Ministers is absent, to report what is happening to them, and they are probably awake at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1108	Thank you, Mr. Kulkov. Is there a line? Are you for a line, Mr. Manev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1109	Colleagues, I'll do the right thing. I'm just really going to make a line for my colleague, which is very important to say today, unfortunately. We were listening to the services today. I agree with you that their equipment and their financing is an extremely important problem. However, here, unexpectedly even for myself, I will agree with the Deputy Prime Minister of Finance, who is not there, and I will tell you that these services, who reported to us last week, that there will be no war, and those services that were here today to tell us some things that have nothing to do with reality, really need to be seriously reformed first, seriously rearranged both from the lead and from the executive staff, as they are at the moment, and indeed then they will deserve funding. I'm sorry to say that. I'm sorry to have to say this tonight, but the last messages in Kiev have come out, and they were explaining to us a few hours ago here in this room how the conflict has already gone through its serious phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1110	Colleagues, I remind you that the closed part of the meeting is classified information. Please don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1111	It's not a secret. It's out in all the media.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1112	Is there another line to Mr. Kulkov? I won't. Would you like a douche? Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1113	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Manev, we really will not go into what has been shared, but no matter who is the leader, I think that there are really enough decent people out there who deserve respect who really built the authority of our country, and we are obliged to ensure that these people are secured, to provide them with a more dignified way of working and a more dignified reward.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-24.u1114	Thank you, Mr. Kulkov, for the coat. Any other speeches? I can't see. I call off the discussion on members from 28 to 49 inclusive. And now, in order to formally call off the meeting, I'm making a procedural proposal to turn on the BNR microphones. [[Laughter]] And in relation to the forthcoming vote, I shall check the quorum with the computerised system. [[Replications. Happy tidings.]] The next meeting will be held in 3 hours. 40 minutes. 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
