ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u1	Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u3	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u5	Registered in the hall 179 MPs and 2 online There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Nikolai Drenchev for declaration. Come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Bulgarian ship "Tsarevna" which is owned by the Bulgarian company "Shipman" based in the city of Varna, with 19 Bulgarian sailors on board has been blocked since 24 February at the port in the Ukrainian city of Mariupol. The Russian side as a participant in the military conflict in Ukraine agrees to release the Bulgarian ship so that our compatriots can return to our homeland. The Ukrainian country, however, refuses to release the Bulgarian ship. Resurrection raised the question to Foreign Minister Teodora Gencovska, who is familiar with the case. Kostadin Kostadinov himself introduced Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. Unfortunately, so far the Bulgarian state has not taken any action. We want the Bulgarian state to take action to release the ship. The concerns of the sailors of the ship and the company owner are that the aim of the Ukrainian nationalists is to use the Bulgarian ship as a means of evacuation if the Russian army takes Mariupol. If this happens, Bulgarian sailors will become hostages and directly involved in military action. Today Bulgaria supports Ukraine and remains the question of why the Bulgarian state does nothing. Why don't I negotiate with the Ukrainian side to save our countrymen and take care of several Bulgarian families - mothers, wives and children - to sleep peacefully because their sons, husbands and fathers are at home? The governors do everything to help the Ukrainian people, but are we doing at least as much to help the Bulgarian people? Did we take care of our own first? The answer to this rhetorical question is no. It is good to be solidarity with the grief of a close and brotherly people to us, but if we have not taken care of our own first, the Bulgarians, then this solidarity is more like hypocrisy. In a rapidly evolving critical situation, a person must first take care of himself, his health, and then he can interact and benefit others. We must put an end to our country's servile and pleasing behavior internationally. Bulgarian foreign policy must cease to be toothless, spineless, unreserved and free. We need to redefine the Bulgarian state. We must redirect the efforts of the Bulgarian state to dealing with our own problems, to the protection, first of all, of our own fellow citizens. Only if we are a country that protects its interests, the lives and health of its own citizens will we be respected by our partners and allies and force our rivals and opponents to comply with us, our people and our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u7	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, yesterday our parliamentary group asked for a hearing of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov on the issue of the government's measures to combat the price crisis and speculation. In any case, in yesterday's sitting, the plenary rejected this point to become part of the National Assembly's Work Programme, and we have no idea what measures the government is planning to take in terms of the price crisis. Yesterday afternoon, we were very surprised to find out that Deputy Prime Minister Cornelia Ninova of the Economic Policy Commission has stated that the government is considering introducing a force major for the country's territory. In this regard, Mr. President, I ask by virtue of the powers given to you by the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, that you, on your own initiative, invite Prime Minister Cyril Petkov to respond to this so important for the whole economic sector and a business question, whether such measures are envisaged. Does the government draw up such documents? And if he does, will he seek consent in the National Assembly? Otherwise, we will be forced again and again next week to raise this issue and to ask for a hearing of both Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Ninova and Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova, for the offer. I'll think about it carefully. [[Laughter and noise of rebirth.]] Don't really laugh! Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, under the procedure someone seemed to laugh. It seems to me that you should very seriously listen to what Mrs. Atanasova said. I suggest the same even more persistently. Colleagues, a month ago and something I was the one who said from that tribune the word force major. And now, Mr. Gurov, I feel guilty. Yesterday I said that we should be careful what words we use and that words really have dangerous properties to become realities. I wanted to say, colleagues, that the way in which the state is governed and the way in which the state is fighting can lead us at some point to the point that someone will be tempted to say the word force major, which I wanted to warn the ruling majority to be careful how they drive the train, in order not to get to the situation where someone will be tempted to say the word force major. Because, as Mr. Petrov and I argued back then, force major means stopping all contracts. That's it! The country's legal system is falling apart! I really ask you, Mr. Chairman, to hear what Mrs. Atanasova said to invite the Prime Minister to assure us that the legal system of the state will not fall apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u11	Thank you. I took it seriously. Mr. Ivanov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u12	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is really imperative that you consider, in the most urgent order, invite Prime Minister Kiril Petkov to the Chamber of the National Assembly, because yesterday's signal, Deputy Prime Minister Ninova of the Blitzcontrol in the Committee on Economic Policies and Innovation, is alarming. Colleagues, I'm saying this as a Commissioner. It took me some time to realize what Mrs. Ninova said, I didn't believe it, but then the media confirmed it. So I believed both my hearing and the media. But Mrs. Nino said something else. In addition to the fact that the force majeure is being considered, this force majeure should be retroactive, this force majeure should be on the entire business turnover of the state.. stopping municipalities, of state, business relations. Mr. Kiril Petkov has to come as prime minister to answer whether it is really one, because the signal that Mrs. Ninova broadcast yesterday to the Commission said that he is already on a conciliation procedure and will be voted on next Wednesday to the Council of Ministers. Therefore, I think that, in the shortest order and in the context of today, once again, Mr. Chairman, I would ask you to listen to Mr. Kiril Petkov about his attitude and vision of the envisaged force major, who is run by the deputy prime minister of this government to be accepted, to invite him into the Chamber. I think it will give important answers to the questions of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Trifonova for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will also join the request of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ Prime Minister Kiril Petkov to come here and explain to us a country with free economic initiative, or whether we have not, whether the objectives are to make inflation from two figures in three figures. What will happen to payments to state institutions? What will happen to investments in the country? What does the state of emergency require? Because whatever we're talking about, there's no force major in this law Mrs. Nino was talking about yesterday. There's a state of emergency. Moreover, she announced something else in the Commission yesterday that she wants to activate art. 36 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to stop exports, and it has not become clear which products it will be for. I would therefore ask you very seriously to consider our desire and invite the Prime Minister to come and explain. This is a very bad sign to international markets and means that no investor will ever step foot in Bulgaria again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u15	Thank you. Professor, if it's the same procedure, four people already said it. The first day I made a commitment to think about it. And Jeco Stankov, too...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, I take the floor under the same procedure, because the sectors in our country are extremely many. Yesterday, when this thing was announced by the deputy prime minister Mrs. Nino, my phone literally caught fire from directors of medical institutions and organizations that represent all different types of medical facilities in the country. To be as clear as possible, I would like to tell you that in relation to what Mrs. Ninova proposed, there is no such thing in the basic law of Bulgaria. In the Bulgarian Constitution there is no such concept. There is an irresistible force which is art. 306 of the Commercial Law, which exempts the debtor from liability on grounds of innocent inability to fulfil an obligation. Now I'm gonna tell you what's gonna bring you to the hospital. There is now talk that again because of production problems accompanying the economy, we will have an oxygen supply problem. That means a company that delivers oxygen to the hospital may not deliver it. Do you know what that means, Mr. Chairman? This means one single thing to put the lives of the patients at risk in this hospital. I do not understand one thing: why is the Bulgarian government trying to apologize with something that has not happened to change the legal order in the country?! [[a line from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u17	Time, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u18	That is why, without the declaration of war in Bulgaria [[the President signals that time has run out]] Because of our government's intention to start such a trade war in your country, I ask you to call Prime Minister Petkov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u20	...to come and explain: does the Bulgarian government intend to put the lives of the people in hospitals at risk or not?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u21	Thank you, Professor. I was in the first procedure on the subject...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u22	Well, do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u23	...I said I'd consider it. Whether it's one, five or fifteen, I'll think about it. Professor Mihailov wants a procedure. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. You have already said it, but after Professor Angelov also ruled on these issues, I have a suggestion... let us make a lecture committee to the National Assembly, let us see what he has as a concept of Fors Major, what is.............................................................................. [[speaking indistinctly]] And get all the cheerleaders into it, who are constantly on occasion and without occasion taking the floor. This doesn't look like a National Assembly, Mr. Chairman. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Proclaims: "Eee!" by GERB-SDS.)]] It doesn't look like a National Assembly! Five times the same thing repeats itself! What if someone said that the situation in the state is now quite normal... in a two-year pandemic situation, in a war on the border of Bulgaria, with severe disruption of supply throughout the world, which is quoted continuously in the media, constantly?! You know very well what happens to automotive, you know very well what happens to steel imports from some of the biggest exporters! If all of this, conditionally, is not force majeure, what are force majeure circumstances? This play with terminology now "Whether it's going to be a bottle or a bottle," what the Constitution says, please, Mr. Chairman! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] We're here to do lawmaking, not listen to the rhetoric exercises from A to Z! Whoever decides to practice on the stands! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u25	Thank you, Professor. I hope we cleared that up. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Are you waiting for the clean-up decision right now? Let's move on to item one of the agenda for today: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR POST SERVICES. A report from the Transport and Communications Commission has come in. Please, Mr. Gutsanov, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act, No 47-254-01-18, submitted by Andrej Gurov and a group of MPs on 15 February 2022. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport and Communications, held on 10 March 2022, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act was discussed, No 47-254-01-18, submitted by Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs on 15 February 2022. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Kalina Konstantinova, Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Governance, Mr. Ivan Dimitrov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, Mr. Deyan Daneshki, Director-General of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov. People's Representative Georgi Svilenski presented the Draft by clarifying that it reflects the structure of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 13 December 2021, as well as the Agreement on Joint Governance of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period from 2021 to 2025, providing for the passage of the Bulgarian Posts to the Deputy Prime Minister of Effective Governance. The amendments to the Postal Services Act propose that the state policy in the field of postal services and branding be carried out by a decree of the Council of Ministers Deputy Prime Minister. Next, all over the Postal Services Act is proposed to reflect the new name of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Minister of Transport and Communications. Mr. Svilenski stressed that the Law aims to modernise the Bulgarian Post Offices and transfer of postal branches into centers for complex administrative services. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. According to the preliminary impact assessment applied to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act, there is no provision for an increase in direct costs resulting from the proposed legislative change. In support of the Draft Law in the Transport and Communications Committee, written opinions were received from the Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Management, the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Communications Regulation Commission. People's representatives Rosen Zhelyazkov, Nastimir Ananiev, Blagovest Belev, Georgi Svilenski and Zlatomira Mostrova took part in the public discussion. Debates sparked the change of the body that will conduct state policy in the field of postal services, as well as structural changes in this regard. After the vote, the Committee on Transport and Communications with 9 votes in favour, 1 vote in opposition and 7 votes in abstention proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Postal Services Act, No 47-254-01-18, submitted by Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs on 15 February 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u27	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Anyone who wants to make a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u28	Aren't the importers going to imagine it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u29	Halil Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The bill in question is interesting and I would like to say a few things. Why are we actually looking at this bill today? For one main reason, to avoid a conflict of interests of the Minister of Transport, we are changing the principle of the Bulgarian Post Office and the state policy in this sector. This is the only reason why we find in all the reasons the change in the status of the Bulgarian Post Office and the move of state policy from a minister to a deputy prime minister, which is not yet mentioned in the bill. The only answer to all the questions in the debates both in the Commission and in the public domain is: we have a coalition agreement. It's like the coalition agreement has Constitutional status! Honourable Members, this is not an argument of the coalition agreement is an agreement between the four parties, but what you want to do does not meet the country's priorities, neither the laws nor the Constitution. The whole exercise we are doing today is actually to avoid the Minister of Transport's conflict of interest. On one of our questions with colleague Mr. Ahmedov, to Kalina Konstantinova about the state of the Bulgarian Post Offices and those working there, we have received an answer, in which there is some contradiction on the one hand, will improve the material base, was promised in this written reply that the material base of all postal stations will be improved, including those working in the Bulgarian Post Offices; on the other hand, we will optimize the inefficient costs of the Bulgarian Post Offices. So far, so good. How will we optimize the Bulgarian Post Offices if we know a lot of the post offices, I will quote them from the answer: The total number is 2973, 633 of them are located in cities. 2340, notice, are in small settlements, with less than 150 inhabitants located 240 stations. 1304 are located in settlements below 800 inhabitants. Understand that their optimization means death on these post offices if the state policy is not to answer for the preservation. Below the answer says: we will make sure that they work at a one-stop shop so that we do not engage people to go to district centres, not to spend fuel, not to pollute, which is great, of course, and we support it. But this optimization contradicts what is actually stated. We support what has been stated in the written reply, we hope this will happen, we will support it in the future, but so far we see only one argument to avoid the Minister of Transport's conflict of interest. Because the next question remains: what is the administrative and expert capacity of the portfolio Deputy Prime Minister who will take over this state policy in the field of the Bulgarian Post Office and will it be able to be implemented because we are talking about the state policy and not only about the Bulgarian Post Offices, but about all operators in general about the service? The operators, if I'm not mistaken, are about 200. But here the question is with regard to the postal service....................................................................................................... These are all questions that need to be answered. Of course, in this bill we do not receive it, but they should receive an answer and we should respond to the Bulgarian citizens why we are actually making this change. I think it is clear from what I have said that we will not support the proposed bill with the arguments that there are no arguments for this bill, except, of course, the coalition agreement, which we very much respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u31	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any lines to Halil Letifov? There are no lines. Nikola Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are against the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Postal Services Act. Let's take a look at al. Art. 2, Art. 10: The state policy in the field of postal services is being conducted by the Deputy Prime Minister, appointed by the Council of Ministers. "It is not clear here who will be, who will be responsible for all these years the irresponsible attitude towards the Bulgarian Post Offices. Today it will be Kalina Konstantinova, but tomorrow it can be and Konstantin Kalinov has no guarantees. There is also a lack of vision for the future of the Bulgarian Post Office. Do you understand how absurd it sounds to remove the Bulgarian Post Office from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. On the one hand, I understand the Change. After all, it is Mr. Subev who sponsored them, and most likely the investment was intended to acquire this ministry. I don't understand the other coalition partners. If we follow this logic, we can, for example, remove the roads from the MRRB. Why don't we make it easy on Mr. Karadjov's life? And I can make a suggestion why not remove BDZ from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. We've already removed the information technology, and now we're about to remove the postal services. Once again, we will not support the Bill. We hope all the other parties do not support it. If Mr. Subev is not suitable for this ministry because of a conflict of interest, it is better to change it and not to remove the Bulgarian Post Office from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u33	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any lines to Nikola Dimitrov? There are no lines. The next speech is Blagovest Belev, then Rosen Zhelyazkov and Radomir Cholakov after Rosen Zhelyazkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u34	My fellow Members, perhaps with my speech, I will give some answers to questions that have been asked by the previous speakers. This is part of the critical infrastructure of the country, so the Bulgarian Post Office should be managed, not by the way, but by the way, by the way. With the passage of the Bulgarian Post Office to a certain ministry, their surrender to a portfolio minister is part of the administrative reform. Whether it will be Kalina Konstantinova, why it should be written in the Bill, I cannot understand, but the Bulgarian Post Offices should be managed at a qualitatively new level. It is envisaged that citizens will be served at a one-stop shop and here Mr. Letifov very rightly pointed out in his brief statistical information, which he said that in some cases the Bulgarian Post Offices are the only operator that reaches small settlements. And they, as you've learned from the statistics, are over 2400. Generally, private operators use the Bulgarian Post Offices, where it is not profitable for them to go and where it is not profitable to maintain offices. With the full responsibility of the importance of the Bulgarian Post Office, their place in the communication system, the delivery system in Bulgaria, it is necessary to make this reform. I call on you to support the bill. I hope you will do so with the awareness that this is how we preserve the Bulgarian post office and give a chance for their development. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u35	Thank you, Mr. Belev. A line from Tsoncho Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u36	We are attending something that nearly two months ago was in this room, namely when the number of members of the KEWRC was being discussed. Then the ruling coalition tabled something which, of course, subsequently approved and voted on, but there was absolutely no argument why it was done. And I can't accept what's happening right now. There has been a statement at the moment, many words have been spoken, nothing concrete has been said, nothing specific is being argued, we will improve, this will be done, this will be done so and there will be an argument for which to have a dialogue, to convince us and to support you. There is nothing wrong with us aging to support you for anything, as long as it is justified and for the benefit of state interests. There's nothing like that in this case. Once again, something is being suggested that we simply do so to say we are doing reform. Where's the reform? What are we reforming? We remove it from a ministry and give it to the Council of Ministers. Today, whether he's a deputy prime minister who doesn't do anything all day or if he's someone else, has nothing to do with it. After all, we have a whole ministry that has always been sent to him. Again, I say, and I ask you to come out and argue why we should support you and why this is justified and what it will lead to, valuefully and qualitatively, to change because there are no arguments at the moment for what you are doing. I don't know if it's gonna be bad or good, but there's no argument for this thing. How can I give any opinion except that I'm against it, given that you don't give any arguments why you change it? If it's just about saying that we have structural reform, sorry, that's not enough argument, as in the KEWRC you removed two people because we will reduce the cost of two people! And now we're moving something from somewhere to find a job for a deputy prime minister who doesn't do anything all day. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u37	Mr. Ganev, let's not use such qualifications to the members of the Council of Ministers after all. Hristo Gadget for a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belev, first of all, on the bill. How stately has your statement been used to move from one minister to another minister? It is also currently managed by the Minister of Transport. As much as Mrs. Konstantinova's name was mentioned, but because that's what you wrote in the Bill. Yes, Deputy Prime Minister, appointed by the Council of Ministers, but it is unlikely he will be the Minister of Finance, it is unlikely that he will be the Minister of Economy or the Environment and Water. So by the method of exclusion one option remains who will manage it. We now understand that the whole idea of the Bill is to avoid conflict of interest, because by already transferring the ownership of one of the major commercial firms in the field of forwarding, the Minister of Transport would be in conflict of interest if he managed his direct competitor to his private business. However, explain to me how the conflict of interest is being avoided now, not the conflict of interest, but the trade with influence, because they are still together in the Council of Ministers and the possibility of trade with influence continues to sit, with large letters written. And another thing that worries me personally is that seeing how effective the Deputy Prime Minister in question is dealing with the refugee crisis, I am already extremely worried about the future of the Bulgarian Post Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u39	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. The third line is Nikolai Angov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u40	All three lines had nothing to do with both, so it'll be the third. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] First of all, just to clarify, the statistics that the Guardians have produced is not a competition and is not positive. I understand the desire of colleagues to express themselves, and not too meaningful things, and not on the subject, but it is simply not a positive race. Returning to the reform in the Bulgarian Post Office will expand the scope of the offered administrative services. This is the reason why the Bulgarian Post Office is to be moved under the leadership of Deputy Prime Minister and to be taken out of the Ministry. It has nothing to do with conflict of interest, as you're trying to launch it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u41	Thank you. A hole by Blagovest Belev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am glad that with my speech I was able to arouse such zealous speakers as Mr. Ganev and especially Mr. Gajev. Thank you for your notes. I see nothing wrong with the word conflict of interest and the eradication of conflict of interest. Where you find the problem, I don't understand, but we can sort it out. The refugee crisis and the condition of the Bulgarian Post Office are incompatible comparisons. If we bring the Bulgarian post office to the refugee crisis, it becomes difficult. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] No, no, that's not gonna happen, I'm sure. Statistics show that the Bulgarian Post Offices up to 2020 were at a loss. Only then, when the state intervenes with credentials, with a kind of measure,..the Bulgarian Post Offices get closer to zero and slightly start to come up with a plus. So improving, good management is the essence of this reform. Who's gonna do it? We're gonna see. Please give an assessment of what is done, not what is to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u43	Thank you, Mr. Belev. The next statement is by Rosen Zhelyazkov, then Radomir Cholakov and then Nastimir Ananiev, and Kostadin Kostadinov also record.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, let us return the conversation to where it belongs. I am surprised at the fact that perhaps a large part of you are commenting on something you have not read. This is not a bill for the Bulgarian Post Office, this draft did not comment on the Bulgarian Post Office. The topic of exercising the rights of the state with a principal member of the Council of Ministers in the Bulgarian Post Office is already resolved and this is done by an act of the Council of Ministers. This act has it and the Bulgarian Post Office has a principal Deputy Prime Minister Konstantinova. This bill, honourable Members, commented on the topic of policy transition in the postal sector from the Minister of Communications to the Deputy Prime Minister. The concept of communications, colleagues, covers networks and services in telecommunications and postal services in this population. Information technology has already been reassigned by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications to the Minister of Electronic Governance. Now the postal services are being redeployed, or they're migrating to Deputy Prime Minister. Perhaps in the structure of the Council of Ministers the Ministry should now be renamed to the Ministry of Transport only or Ministry of Transport and Electronic Communications, because you may know that electronic communications remain within the competence of the Minister of Transport. What's going on, guys? There is not a word in the coalition agreement related to this important sector in the Bulgarian economy, called the Communications. There are three sectors that matter to the gross domestic product: energy, transport and communications. Again, messages include telecommunications and postal services. We are currently subtracting postal services in which more than 230 enterprises, of which more than 78 are active postal operators, are engaged. You know most of them because in the framework of the e-commerce you realize, you use these couriers. This sector goes to the Deputy Prime Minister. We are not talking about the Bulgarian post office again, I would like to stress it once again. At international level ITU and UPU these are the Universal Postal Union and the International Telecommunications Union, the so-called Twin Sisters/twin Sisters are always going together. Is this a rift of politics because it's unwanted or because it's very desirable? But for the first time, a policy in the economic sector comes out of a sector office, which is a ministry, and it goes for realization by a deputy prime minister who implements horizontal policies, not vertical, not depth. Moreover, note, colleagues, that in the distribution in the portfolios, which is done by order of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Electronic Governance and the Minister of Transport and Communications are not in the portfolio of Deputy Prime Minister Konstantinova. They are personally under the supervision of the Prime Minister, so even this commitment, this correlation between Deputy Prime Minister and policies related to e-government and communications, have no normal logic. In fact, this is one of another mines that is bet on effective management. I have no doubt about the qualities and therefore do not comment on purely personal characteristics. Here the question is not whether the policy in the field of postal services will become more effective, or whether it is considered to be where the system place is, it is not effective. And the question is, is postal policy unwanted, too desirable, or is it banished? Another question remains: how will they be carried out and how will they be combined within two characters in the executive power? One with common competence, the other with special competence, participation in international formats? These are the European Conference on Posts and Far Communications, these are the forums of the Universal Postal Union, these are the forums of the International Telecommunications Union, joint representation in Brussels, participation in the decision-making process in the working bodies of the European Union. What would be the fate of the administration? Currently there is an expertise in the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which has a fixed structural unit, which is called the Department of Services Development. It, if mechanically passed into the Council of Ministers, will it be effective for the next year and a half. These are all questions that stand, and I therefore put them to your attention, because these issues do not exist in the coalition agreement, and in the absence of a government management programme, the coalition agreement is the only indicator of how the commitments made will be made. In the absence of a topic, in the absence of a subject matter in the coalition agreement in the field of communication, this passage, and at the level of the legal act, such as the Law, are actually an appendix to the coalition agreement, and the legislation should not serve as an appendix to coalition agreements. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u45	Thank you, Mr. Zhelyazkov. Are there any lines to Rosen Zhelyazkov? I won't. Radomir Cholakov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I do not know if you felt the feeling I felt after Mr. Zhelyazkov's speech that it is good for this discussion to stop immediately, the bill to be withdrawn and once again to reconsider the entire policy in the sector which the government intends to exercise or does not intend to exercise. I wish I could say something, colleagues, on the issue of conflict of interest, because, as Mr. Letifov said, and with that we started, it is obvious to us ordinary people that because Mr. Subev is a postal operator, so the post office must be removed from the Ministry of Post, to which he is a principal, and to go somewhere else so that he cannot be accused of conflict of interest. How about, colleagues, the post office to stay at the Ministry of Transport and Mr. Sabev to remain a minister with full awareness that he is in a very difficult conflict of interest? The interest of any private business is to eliminate competition, especially the state competition. This is an important interest. There is no hypothesis in which a private businessman does not wish to reduce the volume of the State in its own sector and, if there are State undertakings, they should be liquidated. That's... The opposite is nonsense. So there is no businessman who works in the post office that does not want the Bulgarian post office to be liquidated because it is not logical not to want it. In this sense, it seems to me that by taking the post office of Mr. Sabev, who, again, has an interest to be liquidated, and moved to a deputy prime minister, whoever he is, only puts a fig leaf on the idea or on the possibility, although here, as Mr. Gajev says appropriate, we enter into the hypothesis of trade with influence, so there will still be no effect, that is, the government's responsibility will not be taken down by either Mr. Sabev or the deputy prime minister, who will take over the post office. Let me just say this one more time: we're putting on a fig leaf. My proposal, by the way, may seem paradoxical, but think about it as logical. Mr. Subev is, as it turns out, a good manager in the field of postal services, and if the post office remains with him, and politics, of course, remains with him, we can count on him to have the knowledge to manage the sector, including the Bulgarian Post Offices, and there will be at the same time the shame of not liquidating the Bulgarian Post Offices, which is his economic interest. If this thing continues, colleagues, with the Bulgarian postal services policy at all, I am sure that what Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov said will really happen. We have structural problems that will be another mine placed under the government and under the cabinet, which will blow up at some point, we need to be careful what we say now, because it seems that the things we have warned about have begun to be implemented. Consider this proposal in relation to the speech of Rosen Zhelyazkov and in relation to the purely functional question that I am asking you. Whether it is better to know that Mr. Subev is in conflict of interest, to preserve the structure of postal policy, to keep everything as it is, but not to stir up the house to create the Potemkin villages and the illusion that there is no conflict of interest, and to wager mines that will start shooting. If, God forbid, something happens to the Bulgarian Post Office... Do you remember the movie "The Postman" with Kevin Costner and that's where I end up? They say it's his worst movie ever. [[Reply.]] No, no, they say it's his worst movie ever. [[Reply from the People's ancestor Nastimir Ananiev.]] Yeah. I don't know, I keep seeing it. The post office is building the state. That's what I meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u47	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Georgi Svilenski, Lyuben Dilov and Blagovest Belev. [[Reply.]] Let's move the groups, Mr. Ivanov. You can switch if you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Cholakov! It's really nice to have fellow MPs here, at least read the Bill. And I agree with Mr. Zhelyazkov, because so far from the speeches only Mr. Belev and Mr. Cholakov understand that they know what this is about. And about that, the inherent interest of someone managing to destroy an enterprise or not to... First of all, it's not about the Bulgarian post office at all, okay? This explained to you that the Bulgarian Post Offices are already in the Council of Ministers. It's about politics. And whether anyone has an inherent interest in being the largest forwarding company or anything else, I will ask you the following question: what was the inherent interest of GERB 12 years to destroy the Bulgarian post office without being couriers without being the biggest forwarders without having experience in this? Twelve years! From 60% share in courier services, you reduced it to 4% to 4%! Mr. Cholakov, if you don't do something... Don't ever connect Mr. Subev, Mr. Econt, Mr. Speeds and so on. Yes, these companies seized the market share of the Bulgarian Post Office, but they seized it not because it was only so good, but because your management for 12 years allowed the Bulgarian Post Office to retreat these markets. Because when "Spids" and "Econt" worked until seven, eight, nine o'clock in the evening, the Bulgarian Post Offices closed at five o'clock so that they could work. So, when you talk about these things, go back in time, look at the ratio of what was a Bulgarian post office, what is and what is the trend. And the really right thing at the moment is to pay particular attention, and the particular attention is with a particular principle and the special principal is the Deputy Prime Minister. What's higher? Yeah, the higher up is the prime minister dealing with this thing. From this to the Bulgarian Post Office to be on... Policies should be made by the Deputy Prime Minister responsible, appointed by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u49	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. [[Reply.]] Great, here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am pleased to be taking a line from my colleague, as I can say here from this tribune that in 2005 the post office reform started in 2009. I don't know if you were a MP then, then the first, as I recall, the Post Office was run by Ventzi Harmandzhiev. Just for information, because you're leaking information that's absolutely false. The changes and reforms in the Post Office began during the Triple Coalition. I don't know if you've been involved. [[turns to People's Representative Georgi Svilenski]] But I was from this tribune when I spoke against the Post Office reform. Then began the so-called reform and degradation, here I mean the breakdown of the ordered post office that had to the least populated post office. The destruction and sale of Post Office property began. So if anyone here, I have nothing against my colleagues from.. We continue the Change....... but these mines have been set up a long time ago and this reform, which is currently moving the policies from the Ministry of Transport and Communications to the Deputy Prime Minister................... this thing has happened a long, long time ago. As far as I am concerned, I do not want to get into the subject of conflict of interest and trade with influence.. I do not want to get into this topic, but I believe that this is an attempt to avoid, and more precisely to overcome all those set out in the past, problems of the post office, and hardly one person who, I do not want to talk in advance about the competences of a person who is far from the home topic, away from this topic, to be able to manage. So, honourable colleague, this is a little bit to Mr. Svilenski, I'm bypassing the procedure, you're absolutely, how can I say, you have completely misled the House by the fact that the looting of the Post Office, I know where you're going, was during the reign of GERB. So... [[Heckling]] Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u51	You're talking about breakdown.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u52	Thank you, Professor Ivanov. Blagovest Belev has a third line. [[Reply.]] You surrender to Borislav Gutsanov. Here you go, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to Professor Belev. First of all, what Mr. Ivanov said, just to inform you that 2008, Mr. Ivanov, the profit of the Bulgarian Post Office is 8 million. lv. So when you talk, have more information and then come out to the stands of the National Assembly. Henceforth, what has been commented on market shares, I would like to give you a slight reference. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 12,3% of the market share of the Bulgarian Post Office; 2019 10 per cent; 2020 It's about five and a half. Does anyone have anything to say about this? Of course, measures must be taken with the Bulgarian Post Office. I fully agree with Rosen Zhelyazkov's thesis, and he made an extremely meaningful statement. He correctly said that there should be more efficient post office management and hopes that this is why these changes are being made. And yes, that is why these changes are being made in the Bulgarian Post Office to have more efficient management and not the market share falling by each year. And another thing that is extremely important for the Bulgarian Post Office. There are 2973 post offices, of which only 633 are in large settlements. Everyone else is in small villages, in smaller towns. Does anyone else want to go do a favor in these settlements? No! So let's not look and not read as the Devil the Gospel what is being done, but look more realistically at what has happened over the years and why intervention in the Bulgarian Post Office is needed. I don't attack during what management how things happened. I only read the statistics and the years. Everyone can draw their own conclusions, but let us not be as at the beginning of today's meeting, commenting on things that we all know should be happening in the country and we know what the situation is, and let us at the moment make sure that the Bulgarian Post Offices are managed more effectively. That's the big point with the Bill. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u54	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, Mr. Svilenski, Mr. Gutsanov, Mr. Ivanov! The market share of the Bulgarian Post Office, Mr. Svilenski, in early 2009. The market for postal services was at all EUR 100 million. lv. Right now it's 700 million, as Mr. Zhelyazkov told me. This means that GERB's policy in the sector has increased the market seven times. And the Bulgarian Post Office, as he told me, have never been at a loss because they are on a compensation payment from the state budget and cannot be at a loss. [[Reply by MP Borislav Gutsanov.]] Wait a minute. Wait, wait, let me finish my speech. Don't shout. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The Bulgarian Post Office, again tells me Mr. Zhelyazkov, are the only enterprise in the field of these services, which has a collective employment contract and in which 60% of the remuneration goes to employees. Whatever. Mr. Svilensky, you know what really started to piss me off? The idea that the world started with GERB, the 12 years of governance of GERB are the only years of this country and all reforms are carried out by GERB. Would you like us to sit down and start, lightly, to check which reform started in Bulgaria. When was the health reform done, Mr. Svilensky? [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] No, no, when was the health reform done? When was the pension reform made? When was the administrative reform made? When was the tax reform made? None of these reforms were carried out by GERB. Not one! The problem of GERB is that it has not been able to correct the defects in these reforms in these years. But you know very well how difficult it is to fix a defect in reform that has created certain interesting circles. Do you know how long this conversation is? It's very long. And I suggest we don't start it, because if we start it, the skeletons will start coming out of the wardrobe of the transition between 2000 and 2008, when all the reforms were carried out and all the processes that we are now picking fruit were started. What GERB could have done and done it within the framework of the already reformed structures: to do the best for the country so that these structures would not collapse. But again, this is a very long conversation and I don't want to start it now. As for the Bulgarian post office and the policy in the field of communications and postal services, I really confirm what I said, colleagues, let them stay with Mr. Subev, he is a good manager. I, by the way, am sure that if he manages the Bulgarian Post Office, he will manage them well. And because he knows he's in conflict of interest, he's not gonna let himself do anything wrong. Otherwise, at the moment, if something happens to the Bulgarian Post Office and to the policy in the field of communications, Mr. Subev and Mrs. Konstantinova are responsible. And the majority, of course. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor for a personal explanation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u56	Well, no, Mr. Svilensky. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Wait, he didn't hurt you personally. Please, Mr. Svilensky. No. [[Heckling]] Nastimir Ananiev. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski spoke with President Nikola Minchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u58	Mr. Ananiev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u59	We've heard the Ministry of Transport pull out information technology, postal services. We have to ask ourselves the question: why? Anyone can tell us how far the e-government is in general and whether there has been one in our country in recent years. That's why it was taken out so it could be done. It's the same thing as taking out the post office. The post office, yes, colleagues said... critical infrastructure, over 2900 sites. In every European country you enter, the post office is the person of the country. Unfortunately, at the moment we cannot say this about the Bulgarian post office. Yes, they are inefficiently managed and should therefore go right to the Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Governance. Questions were asked: who will be the Deputy Prime Minister, not mentioned. Both committees were attended by Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova, who showed which Deputy Prime Minister would go to. I don't understand why he's stuffing himself in this direction.! But there is another prop that is quite used and was said by several people, about a direct competitor, a conflict of interest, state competition. Tell me right now who is the competitor of the Bulgarian Post Office? It is done uncompetitively as a service, with absolutely everything as a management. How can you compete with someone when nothing has happened for years?! Even the GERB application, which they said, 2005 - 2009 has started the sale. What about 2009 to 2021? What happened? How did you stop him?! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] We don't understand. It started then, and in those 12 years, what happened? We all see it because some use services, others want to use them, but they can't use them because the post office doesn't offer the service they should be using. Now, with this action, we want to have some modern, European mailboxes that, at every location where we have a post office, can provide a much wider service than what is currently happening. In fact, the state will be able to use the post office and this will be done through effective management. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] And, yeah, we're gonna have to show you how to run it. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] And the post office and the electronic control...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u60	Silence in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u61	...are one of the things we can start from. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u62	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Rosen Zhelyazkov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I think that since early childhood we know that repetition is a mother of knowledge, but obviously I must repeat again: the draft in question is not a bill that treats or concerns the Bulgarian Post Office in any way. The Bulgarian Post Offices, as I said, are with the principal Kalina Konstantinova and this is one of the competences of the Council of Ministers, there is such a solution, so we do not comment on the Bulgarian Post Offices. Whether there should be a debate or not, it is good to have, because, colleagues, we continue with our abstract political painting. Modernism is as follows: You always say: we are a white dot, you are a black background. But never the background is as black and never the point is as white, and each point has a point as white as it is. Colleagues, we're talking post office policies, postal sector. The fact that you keep mentioning the Bulgarian Post Offices in a liberalized market where there is free competition is the placing of preferences and inequality of the other participants, for which the Deputy Prime Minister should have equal distance and care in the same way. You are currently placing one of the subjects in a privileged position, speaking only of him. In the same way, except for the Bulgarian post office, the debate today may be how the state will develop Econt, Speedy, DHL, TNT, EasyPay, which you want another courier because we are talking about the policy in the postal sector, about this policy that has increased the sector's economy from 100 million to 700 million at the moment. And that will be the care of the Deputy Prime Minister, and that is why we say that care should be in the sector where we have a central sole authority with special competences, such as a minister. That's politics. It cannot be a horizontal policy in a sector. This sector must develop with all its participants, and they must be encouraged to compete. In fact, the role is not to tolerate one of the participants, but to encourage everyone to benefit the economy. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u64	Thank you, Mr. Zhelyazkov. Lyuben Dilov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ananiev, it is very important that you answer a question as a term carrier. I think it has become clear that we are not talking about the fate of the Bulgarian Post Office, we are talking about the policies in the field of postal and electronic communications. Do you realize that over 98% of media freedom in Bulgaria depends on post and e-mail messages? You are a mandate carrier, we didn't hear what kind of policy the new one is proposing. We understand that there will be new administrative services in post offices on behalf of the state. That's what I've heard so far, without knowing what this favor is. However, the media in this House should be quite keen on this debate, because no one mentions that fact. The policy in electronic communications and the policy in the post office is, let me not say 100%, because maybe someone is carrying something by hand, but more than 98% is the spread of Bulgarian media. This is a very important question, in my opinion, that we are somewhat elegantly passing by. Perhaps you can enlighten us on what your intentions are in the area of media freedom, distribution and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u66	Thank you. And the third line is from Blagovest Belev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u67	Mr. Ananiev, your speech was accurate and you have only partially touched on the topic why it is necessary for the Bulgarian Post Offices to have another type of management, another type of management, and the key word is the critical infrastructure. You did not mention that the Bulgarian Post Offices also have a social role because they deliver messages, deliver stamps, deliver funds, pensions to the remotest places. And that cannot be done within one office, where priorities are already different. The priorities for the development of transport, the priorities for rail transport, maritime policy, aviation require an extremely large resource. I think that Mr. Zhelyazkov as an expert in the topic would be extremely useful in this transformation and extremely useful with advice and policy outline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u68	Thank you, Mr. Belev. Nastimir Ananiev for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u69	Colleagues replicating! Mr. Belev, I agree with you. We're all same-minded. Mr. Zhelyazkov, from your speech, you and the Commission have spoken, perhaps 50. 60% I support it, you certainly have expertise on the subject. The point is, one thing is to have ideas, another is to be a minister and be able to make these ideas, to do them. When you had ideas like that and you were a minister, you kind of gave advice nicely, but you had the chance to make them. Mr. Dilov, I understand that you may wish to receive Bulgarian media in Djibouti while diving, and we vote budget and open a post office there, but it will not happen, I just have to disappoint you. Sorry, you won't be able to get Bulgarian media there. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u70	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Procedure. [[Reply from the National Representative Lyuben Dilov.]] What is your personal explanation, tell me now? [[Reply from the National Representative Lyuben Dilov.]] You want to receive media in Djibouti is not insulting, it is not insulting. [[(Laughter) Noise and lines by GERB-SDS.)]] Alexander Nenkov is for procedure, let's hear it. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Guys, don't! Here you are, Mr. Nenkov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u71	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is as follows. More than an hour ago, you made a commitment to thinking about how and how you would be able to invite the Prime Minister to explain what yesterday became the leading news, namely the introduction of exceptional circumstances in the country. I see that the Council of Ministers also, due to some obvious force majeure, does not meet today, which means that it is likely that there is doubt that the Prime Minister and the entire government is hiding because, naturally, the Council of Ministers will be asked about these exceptional circumstances, or force majeure, which Mrs Cornelia Ninova as Deputy Prime Minister yesterday announced. I would like to advise you, since it has been more than an hour now, to know that this is not just some joke someone said yesterday, but is a very serious circumstance that reverses the whole economic and economic life in the country. I ask you very much, Mr President, I hope that you have already contacted the Prime Minister if you have found him, because the Council of Ministers does not meet, and you will give us your opinion when we will be able to hear from the Prime Minister personally what the circumstances were the only country in the European Union that refers to and wants to invoke force majeure is Bulgaria. An hour should rather the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister come here and give their explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u72	Got it. Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. I've been here all this time. You have the floor, Mr. Mitev. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Abstract from the comments that come from the right side of the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u73	Yeah, sure. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. I will ask you, when GERB representatives come out, to be careful about what they say, whether they check their data. Because the only person hiding in this country two days ago was the manager of the KPC who didn't come when we called him to the Economics Committee. Thank you. [[Applause from.. We continue the Change.............................................. Loud noise and lines by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u74	I'm not familiar with this case. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! What do you mean, XK?! We really insist that you call our parliamentary group on the Prime Minister because force majeure means force majeure. The overwhelming force in this cabinet is called the Bulgarian Socialist Party... [[Applause from GERB-SDS. Proclaims: "Bravo!" "Reply from BSP for Bulgaria".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u76	Mr. Bikov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u77	...which, and I'm going to tell you from experience, because we've stood more here with them, it all starts with a force majeure and ends with a forceminor. [[Laughter, applause from GERB-SDS]] , bankruptcy, price control.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u78	Mr. Bikov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u79	And we're extremely worried. This is where Kiril Petkov should come. We don't even want Cornelia Ninova to come anymore...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u80	I get it, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u81	...to know what's going on. They canceled a meeting of the Council of Ministers today. You see, when you accuse us of panicking, you do it every day with things like that. Come here and explain!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u82	Got it. Thank you, Mr. Bikov. I don't know, do you think if you repeat it ten times, it increases the chance to come? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I'm not, by the way. I'd even say it's the other way around. Mr. Gutsanov and you are for procedure. Please come in for a procedure. Jeco Stankov is also for procedure, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! It is really nice, honourable colleagues from GERB, to have an idea of humility, once. The second time, it is very good when you realize what the real situation is in the world, in Europe, in our region, to be a little more careful when you make similar speeches from the National Assembly if you really think about the state and do not think about your party interests. You've said it ten times today. Do you think that the President has not understood and do you think that with your speeches you do not make additional suggestions in the public domain? Are you doing this on purpose?! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] In my opinion, unfortunately, yes! As for the Bulgarian Socialist Party, one of the few parties in Europe and the world, which is more than 130 years old. When you're these years old, come and talk about BSP. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u84	Zhecho Stankov for procedure. Colleagues, there's no point in going on forever with this... [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] Excuse me, Mr. Nenkov, did you call him? I'm here for an hour, did you see me on the phone?! [[Reply by MP Kostadin Angelov.]] Take it easy! You made your offer, I get it, that's it. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am humbled both before you and before colleagues with the following request. Yes, indeed you are all the time in charge of the meeting, so it is rather my request that you contact your deputies to contact the Prime Minister's chief of staff in this case and invite him through his chief of staff, as it is indeed an extremely important issue. I'll tell you why the subject is important. The topic is important because imagine what is happening in the sector..... at the moment when this force-major is really declared............................................................................................ what will happen in simple words??.............................................................................................................................................! These long-term contracts that have to supply electricity can immediately be terminated, long-term natural gas contracts can also be terminated. And what is worse is that a project that you promote how quickly you will complete it, namely the Bulgarian-Greek gas connection, will be completely stopped because, frankly, I see no reason why its performer should not immediately invoke this force majeure and stop the delay during the official governments and your government, the construction of this gas connection. The Prime Minister's presence in this Chamber is extremely urgent.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u86	We get it. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u87	Even more disturbing is the cancellation of the Council of Ministers. We want to hear: will there be force majeure, will there not be? I already wonder what else can be broken in this country during the rule of this government to understand what the right approach is? And I am sure that if you accept the force majeure, then you will say that this is a watermelon crust that GERB has put on you because it was mentioned x weeks ago by this tribune. So please, from the heart, if not you, your deputies, please contact the Prime Minister's office or personally, to come here to the Chamber and within the appointed time to be able to talk to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u88	Thank you. Kostadin Kostadinov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u89	Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u90	After your speech, I'll give you a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u91	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to put the conversation back into the Post Office subject, mentioning two undisputed facts. One fact is that the Bulgarian Post Offices have been in a state for years, which is, to put it mildly, sadly, and the care that is being taken for them by both the state and the people in the management and management of this company are obviously not good. That's an indisputable fact. The second undisputed fact is that the current Minister of Transport is one of the good experts in this sector, because this is a branch and it is important, and is one of the main ones for the functioning of the state system. Since two garages have managed to make one transport and courier empire, it is obvious that it has the necessary qualities and professional knowledge. The big question is in this case, since we have a very sick company, such as the Bulgarian Post Office, which, on the other hand, is strategic for the state In many places in Bulgaria, in fact, if I have to be specific in 800 places, at the moment the Bulgarian Post Offices are the only remaining symbol of Bulgarian statehood, because there are no schools, no kindergartens, no social services, no mayors. In most of the places there are only mayor's seats where the mayor's deputy goes once, twice a week, at best. The only connection of the people in these small settlements with the Bulgarian state and our residual statehood is the post office. From the point of view of these two undisputed facts, there is much ambiguity in the current here discussion of the transfer of the Post Office from the hands of a person who we are critics of the government, but we cannot distort our soul that it is an obvious professional, a person who could fix this company. There was a hint earlier that maybe it's being done because there's a conflict of interest. The ruling majority denied that, they said: "No, it is not a conflict of interest, on the contrary, there will be a better governance. It turns out that the Minister of Transport, which is the whole business, professional road and living and being over the years back, cannot deal with something that actually made him one of the most successful entrepreneurs in this sector. Obviously, there are other problems that haven't come to light, and we haven't been able to find them here, and we still don't see an explanation. The problems at the Post Office aren't from yesterday. In 2009, then Finance Minister Simeon Djankov was about to deliver a very severe and almost deadly blow to this Bulgarian institution, wanting to close nearly half of the post offices, calling them dysfunctional. Then because of the big public reaction, the government backed up. Two years later, Djankov tried again. Then he said that only small branches should close in 2011. Then it was actually about that if we close these small branches, 800 out of 5000 villages in Bulgaria will practically be deleted from the map of the state because they are villages with less than 100 people. And that didn't work out. But perhaps eventually they decided so little in a good way to sweep the problem under the carpet, as has happened before, not paying attention to Post Office's problems, from now on, to let them die alone from old age. And they're in this situation right now. I believe that if there is someone who can cope with the extremely sad and difficult condition of the Bulgarian Post Offices, this is the current Minister of Transport. There's no one else to say the opposite argument in that direction. For this very reason, we will not support this proposal because it is absolutely unsatisfied. Apparently, there's some other motives, definitely backstage, subkiliminal. God knows exactly what, but I don't know if it's about some division of spheres of influence inside the government. This only knows the ruling majority, but in this particular case it should be considered primarily the national interest. The national interest requires that our Post Offices be healed and converted into a well-functioning public service. Because there was a talk of a force-major, a force-minusor here a moment ago. Well, Bulgaria has been like a country in which military action has been taking place for years. If you walk a little in the deep villages, you'll see that our country is currently looking the same as the reports from Ukraine show us on TV, without any bombings. And that's from the last 30 years. So I appeal for a little more attention to a problem that is very serious. The withdrawal of the Post Office from the Ministry of Transport system will kill the Bulgarian Post Office. If that is the goal, let's say at least, but we are definitely against it and will not support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u92	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines to Kostadin Kostadinov? I won't. For the procedure Desislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is in the manner of conduct and is related to the speech of the MP Mitev, which you did not react to and interrupt, did not remind him that he was moving away from the subject of the debates. A moment ago, my colleague Mitev abused his ability to speak from the parliamentary platform by linking the topic with Prime Minister Petkov's absence with the absence of the Chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition at a meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy. Mr. Mitev,
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u94	To me, Mrs. Atanasova. I'll make an observation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u95	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to make a note to Mr. Mitev because it is terribly ugly, even disgusting, without knowing the reason why Mrs. Julia Nenkova did not appear at a Commission meeting to abuse the information from this platform. More than that. This is not the first time you've abused your rights. And in this case, aside from the President punishing you, and reminding you of some ethical norms of conduct, I ask you to take a personal attitude and apologize for what you have done. Mrs. Julia Nenkova is on a monthly sick leave, on sick leave, and today she has a severe operation. That's disgusting what you're doing, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Chairman, please take action. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u96	Please return to the debate in particular, whether in procedures, regardless of whether in any case the people who are speaking refer to the people who are speaking and to the people in procedures. Here you are, Mr. Mitev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u97	Of course, Mrs. Atanasova, if the reason why Ms. Nenkova did not appear to the Commission is justified and she is really sick, I apologise, and of course that is a very respectful reason. The way I took the procedure was because they said, "He's afraid to come, he's hiding." No, he's not hiding, and that's what I used. But really, if she's sick, of course, when a person says something that's not right, they should apologize. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u98	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Another procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since our parliamentary group has repeatedly asked Prime Minister Kiril Petkov and Deputy Prime Minister Cornelia Ninova to be present in plenary to ask them our questions, and you, as an argument to the contrary, say that you have no opportunity to notify them because the water meeting, I want a 30-minute rest, at which time I hope, Mr President, that you will be able to inform Prime Minister Cyril Petkov that one of the parliamentary groups wishes to ask their questions: whether the government is soon discussing and will announce a force major for the territory of the entire country.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u100	15-minute break at 10:50 p.m. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u101	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. Are there any more willing to speak on the bill? There aren't any people who want to make a statement. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act with entry number 47-254-01-18, submitted by Andrej Gurov, Hristo Ivanov, Victoria Vasileva and Georgi Svilenski. Colleagues online. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u102	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u103	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u105	They voted 208 MPs in Hall plus 2 online, total "210": for 120 in the Chamber plus 2 online " 122" against 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. Colleagues online: Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u107	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u109	They voted 209 MPs in the House plus 2 online, total of 21: for 119 in the House plus 2 online " 121" against 90 abstentions. The motion is accepted. With this, we have exhausted item 1 of the agenda for today. Moving on to point two: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE MARKETS OF FINANCIAL SERVICES. There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mr. Simeonov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u110	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, please, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to vote in the Chamber to allow the following persons to be admitted: Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance; Mrs. Elena Petrova, Head of Department of the Directorate of the Financial Markets; Mrs. Nadya Daskalova, State Expert in the Directorate of the Financial Markets.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u111	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Colleagues, we are voting on Kiril Simeonov's procedural proposal for admission of the designated persons to the Chamber. Colleagues online: Eva Miteva? Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u112	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u113	They voted 140 MPs in the hall plus 1 online, totaling " 141": for 139 in the room plus 1 online "140," against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the seven guests to the hall. Mr. Simeonov, come on in on the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u114	On 10 December 2021, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on a draft amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act, No 47-102-01-8, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 10 December 2021, adopted on the first vote on 10 February 2022. The Law on Markets in Financial Instruments is amended and supplemented by the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. Under § 2, there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 2. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The Financial Supervision Commission shall exercise the powers of a competent authority under Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on prudential requirements for investment firms and amending Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 575/2013, (EU) No 600/2014 and (EU) No 806/2014 (OB, L 314/1 of 5 December 2019) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2019/203" in respect of investment firms under art. 9a, para. 1 or entities subject to supervision under Chapter Twenty-Second, with the exception of the powers of art. 50, point (b) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033, which shall be exercised by the Vice-President in respect of investment firms under art. 9a, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it, the words "and investment firms" shall be deleted and the words "or entities which are subject to supervision under Chapter Twenty-Two" shall be replaced by "in art. 9a, para. 2 or entities subject to supervision in accordance with Chapter Twenty-Two. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in the end it is added by art. 9a, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OB, L 173/84 of 12 June 2014) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 600/2014', are deleted. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6. 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and the reports under Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 and the reports under Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 are added after the word "Notifications'. 7. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8..................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. Under § 5, there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 5. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 the following 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. They're creating an al. 2? 4: s (2) an investment firm that meets the definition of a credit institution under art. 4 (1) (b) 1 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and has applied for authorisation to operate as a bank under art. 2, para. 1, t. 2 of the Credit Institutions Act to the Bulgarian National Bank, may continue to carry out its activities as an investment firm until the license is obtained or the refusal to issue a license to carry out the activity as a bank under art. 2, para. 1, t. 2 of the Credit Institutions Act. (3) From the date of the decision to issue the licence under para. 2 the license to carry out the activity as an investment firm issued by the Commission shall be revoked. (4) In case of refusal of a licence under para. 2 The Commission shall withdraw the authorisation issued by it to the investment firm for carrying out activity as an investment firm within 14 days of the notification under art. 13a, para. 4 of the Credit Institutions Act. Under § 6 there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 6. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Chapter Two, Section I, art. is created. 9a and 9b: "Acceptable requirements for the prudential supervision of investment firms' Art. 9a. (1) For investment firms the requirements of this Law, Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 and their implementing acts shall apply, except for the cases under para. 2. (2) Investment firms shall be subject to the requirements of this Law, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and their implementing acts in the following cases: 1. investment firms shall meet the conditions laid down in Article 1. point (a) is replaced by the following: 2. The Commission has taken a decision pursuant to art. 1 (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 in accordance with art. 9b; 3. the commission on the basis of art. Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 has, by decision, allowed them to be applied. Decision implementing Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 Art. 9b. (1) The Financial Supervision Commission may, according to art. 1 (2) (c) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 decides to apply the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 to an investment firm carrying out any of the investment services and activities under art. 6, para. 2, p. 3 and 6, where the total value of the consolidated assets of the investment firm is equal to or exceeds the remaining equivalent of EUR 5 billion calculated as an average for the previous 12 months, and there is one or more of the following conditions: 1. the investment firm shall carry out investment services and activities under art. 6, para. 2, p. 3 and 6 on such a scale that the testing of material difficulties or the failure to comply with material obligations by the investment firm may lead to systemic risk; 2. the investment firm is a clearing member; 3. the Commission considers that this is justified in view of the size, nature, scale and complexity of the activity of the investment firm, taking into account the principle of proportionality and one or more of the following factors: (a) the importance of the investment firm for the economy of the European Union or of the Republic of Bulgaria; (b) the importance of cross-border activities of the investment firm; (c) the interconnection of the investment firm with the financial system. (2) Paragraph 1 shall not apply to a dealer of goods or emission allowances, collective investment undertakings, insurance and reinsurance undertakings. (3) The Financial Supervision Commission shall revoke the decision under para. 1 where the investment firm ceases to comply with the threshold set out in para. 1 calculated over a period of 12 consecutive months. The Financial Supervision Commission shall immediately inform the investment firm of the cancellation of the decision under para. 1. (4) The Financial Supervision Commission shall immediately inform EBA of the decisions under para. 1 and 3............................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, i.e. 1 is amended as follows: "1." In para. 1 words "al." 2, 3, 5 and 6 2, 3 and 6 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. Under § 12, there is a proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 12. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 19a: Re-licensing of a license to carry out business as an investment firm of a bank under art. 2, para. 1, t. 2 of the Credit Institutions Act Art. 19a. (1) Bank under art. 2, para. 1, t. 2 of the Credit Institutions Act, which performs only investment services and activities under art. 6, para. 2, p. 3 and 6 and at which for a period of 5 consecutive years the average value of the total assets is below the thresholds under art. 4 (1) (b) Point (b) of point (b) of Article 1 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 shall apply under art. 17, para. 2 for the re-licensing of a licence under art. 19. The application shall be submitted within 14 days of receipt of the notification by the Bulgarian National Bank under art. 36, para. 6 of the Credit Institutions Act. (2) The Financial Supervision Commission shall take into account the assessment of compliance with the supervisory requirements by the bank under para. 1 as well as any other information relevant to the issue of the licence submitted by the Bulgarian National Bank within 10 working days of the written request of the Commission. (3) The Vice-President shall decide on the completeness of the application within 10 working days of receipt of the application, as art. 18, para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (4) The Financial Supervision Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, shall examine and decide on the substance within three months of the submission of the full application. Where the data and documents submitted are incomplete, inaccurate, inconsistent with the regulatory requirements or additional information or evidence of their correctness is required, the Commission shall send a message to the applicant of the findings and discrepancies or of the request for additional data, information and documents within 20 working days of the confirmation of the completeness of the application. The applicant shall submit to the committee the additional data, information and documents within a period set by the committee which may not be shorter than one month and longer than two months and that period cannot be further extended. (5) In the cases referred to in art. 262, para. 1 and 2 The Commission shall request the opinion of the relevant competent authority. In that case, the Commission shall decide upon receipt of the opinion of the competent authority concerned, but no later than 30 working days from the submission of the complete application. (6) The Financial Supervision Commission shall decide on the application by deciding whether it will issue an operating licence as an investment firm within 30 working days: 1. of the confirmation of the completeness of the application submitted where no additional data, information and documents are requested under para. 4; 2. from the submission of the additional data, information and documents under para. 4 within the prescribed period, from the expiry of the period for their submission. (7) For the issue of the licence shall apply art. 18, para. Articles 7, 10 and 11 and art. 19. (8) The Financial Supervision Commission shall immediately inform the Bulgarian National Bank of its decision on the application submitted. (9) The licence issued by the Commission to carry out the activity as an investment firm shall be effective from the date of the decision to withdraw the licence for a bank under art. 2, para. 1, t. 2 of the Credit Institutions Act of the Bulgarian National Bank. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1 the following additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 after the words "the law', "the Regulation (EU) 2019/203' or "the Regulation (EU) 2019/203' is added to "the law'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 9 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 600/2014', a comma is added and a "Regulation (EU) 2019/203' is added. Under § 15 there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 15. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: (2) Along with the request under para. 1 the investment firm shall present: 1. a plan to settle his relationship with clients, which includes the transfer of client financial instruments, money and other assets to an investment firm designated by clients, which has given consent; 2. evidence of duly provided requirements and necessary resources that are realistic in terms of time and maintenance of equity and liquid resources until the final settlement of the relationship with customers, taking into account its viability, sustainability of the business model and business strategies. 2. In para. 3 words "When the condition under para. The second sentence is not available.The second sentence is replaced by the "When the plan does not include the transfer of client financial instruments, money and other assets to an investment firm designated by the clients, which has given consent.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19. Under § 20, there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 20. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 49th para is created. 8.... . (8) The branch of an investment firm authorised under para. 1 shall make available annually to the Commission: 1. information on the scale and scope of the services and activities carried out by the branch in the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. information on the investment firm from a third country operating under art. 6, para. 2, p. its monthly minimum, average and maximum exposure to European Union counterparties; 3. for the investment firm from a third country that provides one or both services referred to in art. 6, para. 2, p. 6 The total value of financial instruments originating from European Union counterparties whose emissions are covered or offered under the conditions of unconditional and irrevocable obligation during the previous 12 months; 4. information on turnover and total value of assets corresponding to the services and activities referred to in point 4. 1; 5. a detailed description of the mechanisms for the protection of investors from which the clients of the branch can benefit, including the rights of those customers arising from the rights referred to in para. 2, p. 6 Investor compensation scheme; 6. the risk management policy and the arrangements it uses for the services and activities referred to in point 6. 1; 7. the management rules, including the names of the persons who perform the main functions in relation to the activities of the branch; 8. other information which the Commission considers necessary to supervise the activities of the branch. (9) When a branch of an investment firm is licensed under para. Article 1 shall apply. 9a, para. 2, the branch shall provide the Commission with at least once a year: 1. information on the total amount of assets corresponding to the activities of the branch included in the licence; 2. information on the liquid assets available to the branch, in particular the availability of liquid assets in levs, euros and other currencies of the Member States; 3. information on the amount of equity available to the branch; 4. the rules for risk management; 5. the management rules, including the names of the persons performing the main functions in relation to the activities of the branch; 6. recovery plans covering the branch; 7. other information which the Commission considers necessary for carrying out a thorough monitoring of the activities of the branch. (10) On request, the Commission shall provide ESMA with the following information on: 1. decisions to issue a licence to branches of an investment firm from a third country and to change those licences; 2. the scale and scope of the services and activities carried out by the licensed branch in the Republic of Bulgaria; 3. the turnover and total value of the assets corresponding to the services and activities referred to in point 3. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. the name of the group from a third country to which the licensed branch belongs. (11) The Financial Supervision Commission and the Vice-President shall cooperate closely with the competent authorities of the entities which are part of the same group to which the branches of investment firms authorised under para. 1 respectively, the competent authorities of other Member States that authorised a branch of an investment firm in the group and with ESMA and EBA to ensure that all the activities of the group in the European Union are subject to comprehensive, coherent and effective supervision in accordance with that law, Directive (EU) 2019/2034 and Regulation (EU) 2019/203, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 and Directive 2013/36/EU respectively. (12) The Financial Supervision Commission shall annually inform ESMA of the list of branches of investment firms from third countries operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 2 after the word.................................................. is added.............................................. Point (b) of Article 48 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 or (EU) The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63, para. 3 after the words "in accordance with......................................................................................................... Point (b) of Article 48 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 or (EU) The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the word "the law' shall be replaced by this law and its implementing acts and the words "the activity carried out by it and' shall be replaced by the activity of the intermediary, as well as the risks inherent in the business model and activity of the intermediary, and shall be replaced by the activity of the intermediary; (b) c. 9 the words "Regulation (EU) No 596/2014' are inserted after the words "Regulation (EU) No 2033'; (c) c. 12 a comma shall be placed at the end and added as well as the risks posed by it or could be posed by it; (d) point 14 is amended as follows: It's 14 years old. the application of gender-neutral policies and practices for remuneration of persons working for the investment firm who take into account reasonable and effective risk management and encourage it, and the remuneration, remuneration policy and implementation and disclosure requirements are determined by a regulation; (e) c. 15 in the text before the letter (s), after the words (s) the employees of the investment firm (s) shall be added by a special independent channel (s). 2. In para. 3 after the words "supplier" shall be added by art. 9a, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the 3. In para. 4 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 596/2014', the words "Regulation (EU) No 2019/2033' are inserted after the words "Regulation (EU) No 596/2014', and the words "Regulation (EU) No 2019/2033' are inserted after the words "Regulation (EU) No 596/2014', and the words "Regulation The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, and shall everywhere the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, with the words "Art." The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 54 to amend this Regulation in respect of the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 129, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 the words "the market or data reporting service provider' shall be replaced by "the market', an approved reporting mechanism or an approved publication mechanism under art. 1, t. The words "and" shall be inserted after the words "and the words "and" shall be inserted after the words "and" shall be inserted after the words "and the words "and" shall be inserted after the words "and" shall be inserted after the words "and the words "and" shall be inserted after the words "and the words "and" shall be inserted after the words "and the words "and" shall be inserted after the words "and the words "and" shall be inserted after the words "and the words 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 at the beginning is added 3. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." it concerns the continuous functioning of the investment firm, the regulated market, the approved reporting mechanism or the approved publication mechanism under art. 1, t. 3; "Should I tell you something?" The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 36, i.e. 2 point (d) is replaced by the word (d) is replaced by the words (d) is replaced by the words (d) is replaced by the words (d) is replaced by the words (d) is replaced by the words (d) is replaced by the words (d) is replaced by the words (d) is inserted; (d) is replaced by the
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u115	Maybe this is where we stop, Mr. Simeonov, just at the end of Title IV. Dear colleagues, I am opening a discussion on the texts read by Kiril Simeonov, namely from the name of the bill to § 36 inclusive. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. Colleagues, we will vote on the following texts: the name of the draft as an importer supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance; § 1 is an importer; § 2 is an importer; paragraphs 3 and 4 are an importer; paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 are an importer; paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 are an importer; paragraphs 8, 9, 10 and 11 are an importer; § 12 is an importer; § 12 is an importer; paragraphs 14 and 15 are an importer; paragraphs 14 and 15 are an importer; paragraphs 16, 17, 18 and 19 are an importer supported by the Commission; § 20 is an importer; paragraphs 21, 22, 23 are an importer; paragraphs 24 and 25 are an importer; § 26 is an importer; § 27 is an importer; paragraphs 28 and 29 are an importer; paragraphs 30, 31, 32 are an importer; paragraphs 33, 34 and 35 are an importer; and § 36 are an importer; and § 36 is an importer. Please, voting mode. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u117	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u119	Thank you. They voted 141 MPs in the House plus 2 online " 143": for 128 in the House plus 2 online "130," against none, abstentioned 13. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u120	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 37, and the words 205 "209: ". Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... To date, Title 4 with chapters 16 to 20 first with article 4. 205 " 227" is hereby revoked. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. The name of Chapter Twenty-Two shall be amended as follows: 9a, para. 1 and supervisory powers in respect of investment holding companies, mixed financial holding companies and mixed-activity holding companies in which those intermediaries are involved The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 40, as the title of art. 228 and the text before t. 1 of para. 1 is amended as follows: "Definition of a competent authority for supervision on a consolidated basis of groups of investment firms and supervision for compliance with group capital test Art. 228. (1) The Financial Supervision Commission shall supervise on a consolidated basis under art. 7 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 or supervision to comply with group capital test in cases where: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 41, by: "1." The words "in chapter twenty-second" are created and replaced by "create." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 228b after the words "Regulation (EU) No , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 228c. 5 and 6 are amended as follows: . (5) The supervisory colleges referred to in para. 1 and 2 shall establish the necessary arrangements under which the supervisory authority of the investment firms group, EBA and the other competent authorities carry out the following tasks: Article 1 228b; 2. for the exchange of information between the competent authorities and EBA in accordance with art. 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, as well as with ESMA in accordance with art. 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010; 3. to coordinate requests for information where necessary to facilitate supervision on a consolidated basis, in accordance with art. 7 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033; 4. to coordinate requests for information where several competent authorities of investment firms which are part of the same group of investment firms need to request from the competent authority of the home Member State of the clearing member or the competent authority of the qualifying central counterparty information on the margin model and parameters used to calculate the margin requirement of the relevant investment firm; 5. increase the effectiveness of supervision by removing the unnecessary duplication of supervisory requirements; 6. agreeing on voluntary allocation of tasks and responsibilities between competent authorities as necessary. (6) Members of the supervisory colleges under para. 1 and 2 are: 1. the competent authorities responsible for the supervision of subsidiaries of a group of investment firms with a parent undertaking, a Union parent investment holding company or a mixed Union parent financial holding company; 2. third-country supervisory authorities, where confidentiality requirements are met, which, in the opinion of all competent authorities, are considered equivalent to the confidentiality requirements of the Member States according to their national 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 228e, after the word "supplier', is added "supplier'. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 228e, para. 1 t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." any substantial administrative penalties and supervisory measures imposed by the Commission or Vice-President under this law, including the imposition of additional capital requirements. 6. Article 228g is amended as follows: "Consultations with other competent authorities" Art. 228g. (1) Before taking a decision relevant to the activities of another competent authority, the Commission shall consult it where the decision concerns: 1. changes to the shareholder, organisational or management structure of investment firms by the group of investment firms for which approval or authorisation of the Commission is required; 2. substantial administrative penalties and supervisory measures imposed by the committee or Vice-President; 3. additional capital requirements imposed by the Commission. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. The committee shall also consult the consolidating supervisory authority. (3) The requirements of para. 1 and 2 shall not apply where it is necessary for the Commission to take a decision immediately and where consultations may impede or impede the effectiveness of an appropriate decision. In that case, the Commission shall notify the competent authorities as soon as possible of its decision not to consult. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 228i, para. 2, in the text before t. 1 the following word:.. is replaced by some of the following 8. Article 228k is amended as follows: Other requirements Art. 228k. The Financial Supervision Commission shall supervise the investment holding and mixed financial holding when the group capital test is applied. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 228n, para. The first sentence of the first sentence shall be inserted after the words of the group body. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 42, proposing the following wording: .............................................................................. Chapter twenty-two is set up.. seventh on a consolidated basis of investment firms under art. 9a, para. 2 and supervisory powers in respect of financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies in which those intermediaries are involved The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 43: "1." In para. 1 the word "the definitions' is replaced by "the knowledge'. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: For the purposes of this chapter: 1. The group is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 138 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 2. The group from a third country is a group whose parent undertaking has its head office in a third country. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 44, by: "1." The words "in chapter twenty-two" are created and replaced by "create." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 229a para. 2, 4 and 5 are amended as follows: . (2) Alinea 1 shall also apply to financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies other than those referred to in para. 1 to which the Commission shall supervise on a consolidated basis. (4) The data and documents under para. 3 shall be made available to the Commission also where a financial holding company or mixed financial holding company has its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria, to which the Commission is not a consolidating supervisory authority. (5) When the approval under para. 1 of a financial holding company or mixed financial holding company shall be carried out at the same time as the valuation under art. 57 and the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company is established in another Member State, the Commission shall be coordinated with the competent authority in the Member State where the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company is established. In this case, the term referred to in art. 56, para. 1 shall cease to run for a period of up to 30 working days until the procedure for approval has been completed. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 229c, para. 2 the words "no' are replaced by "no' and "no' are excluded. 4. Article 229d is amended as follows: Other requirements Art. 229. For financial holding company or mixed financial holding company under art. 229a, para. Article 2 shall apply accordingly. 229 (a) (c) on a sub-consolidated basis. (c) Under § 44, there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 44. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 230 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. 3. In para. The first sentence of the sentence shall be replaced by the first sentence of Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and the second sentence of Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 4. The creation of para. 7. Where the Commission is a consolidating supervisory authority with regard to mixed parent financial holding company, but is not a coordinator under art. 14 of the Additional Supervision of Financial conglomerates Act, the Commission shall cooperate with the coordinator for the purposes of the application of this Act and of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. For the purpose of effective cooperation, the Commission shall conclude a written agreement with the coordinator. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 46 as in para. 1 point.................................................................................................. 1...................................................................................... 2 is amended as follows: "2." In para. 2 the words "and 4' are deleted and the words "the intermediary' are replaced by "the intermediary' and "the intermediary' is replaced by "the intermediary'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 47. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 48: ............... 48............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 238, para. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 49. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 50, as in para. 7 the words "create" are also replaced by "create" and "create." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 49, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 245, p. 1 the words "substantial information" within the meaning of art. 243, para. The information referred to in Article 1 (2) shall be replaced by the information referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be replaced by the information referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 243, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 50, which becomes § 52, and the words "in chapter twenty-seconds' are created and replaced by "created'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 53. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 52, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "on a consolidated basis' shall be deleted. 2. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 53, which becomes § 55 as in para. the first sentence of the first sentence shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 56. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 55, which becomes § 57, and the words "In the name of Title 2 of Part Three' shall be replaced by "In Part Three, in the name of Title 2'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 58. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 57, which becomes § 59, and the words "In the name of Section I of Chapter Twenty-Three' shall be replaced by "In Chapter Twenty-third' in the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58, which shall become § 60, and the word The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 61. The Commission proposes to create a new § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 261, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. 257 " 259" shall be replaced by the following: 257 and 258 The Commission supports, in principle, the importer's text by proposing that § 60 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 63. Under § 61, there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 61. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 61, which shall become § 63: .............................................................................. After art. 267 a new Section III shall be established "Communication of information with other competent authorities and with the European Banking Authority in the exercise of the prudential supervision of investment firms under art. 9a, para. Article 2 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is replaced by the following: 267a: "Department III" Exchange of information with other competent authorities and with the European Banking Authority in the exercise of the prudential supervision of investment firms under art. 9a, para. 1 Cooperation Art. 267a. (1) The Financial Supervision Commission for the exercise of its supervisory powers on the prudential supervision of investment firms under this law and under Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 shall cooperate closely with the relevant competent authorities of the Member States by exchanging information without delay, including for: 1. the management structure and structure of the investment firm's shareholding; 2. compliance with the capital requirements of the investment firm; 3. compliance with requirements relating to concentration risk and liquidity of the investment firm; 4. the administrative and accounting procedures and internal control mechanisms of the investment firm; 5. all other relevant factors which may affect the risk posed by the investment firm. (2) The Financial Supervision Commission shall immediately provide the competent authorities of the host Member State with any information and findings on the potential problems and risks posed by the investment firm for the protection of clients or the stability of the financial system in the host Member State and which have been established by the Commission and by the Vice-President in the supervision of the activity of the investment firm. (3) The Financial Supervision Commission shall act on the basis of the information provided by the competent authorities of the host Member State by taking all necessary measures to prevent or eliminate potential problems and risks referred to in para. 2. Upon request, the Commission shall explain in detail to the competent authorities of the host Member State how it has taken into account the information and findings provided to it. (4) Where the Republic of Bulgaria is a host Member State, the Commission shall, after receiving the information and findings under para. 2, consider that the competent authorities of the home Member State have not taken the necessary measures under para. 3 may, after informing the competent authorities of the home Member State, EBA and ESMA, take appropriate measures to protect customers to whom services are provided or the stability of the financial system. (5) The Financial Supervision Commission may refer to EBA cases where a request for cooperation, in particular a request for information exchange, has been rejected or no action has been taken within a reasonable period. (6) Where it does not agree with the measures of the competent authorities of the host Member State, the Commission may refer the matter to EBA for a decision under art. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010. (7) For the purposes of assessing the condition in art. 23, par. 1, para. The Commission may request the competent authority of the home Member of the clearing member's home Member to provide information on the margin model and parameters used to calculate the margin requirement of the relevant investment firm authorised by the committee. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 62, which shall become § 64: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The current Section II becomes Section IIIa, and in the name the words "observation of compliance with capital and liquidity requirements" shall be replaced by the exercise of the prudential supervision of investment firms under art. 9a, para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: Under § 63, there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 63. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 63, which shall become § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1 words for compliance with capital and liquidity requirements shall be replaced by the prudential supervision of investment firms under art. 9a, para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 66. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65, which shall become § 67. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66, which shall become § 68, in that regard. 1 point.................................................................................................. In addition, the Commission notes that it is not possible to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 5............................................... 18 words. 1's 13's are replaced by a 'al'. 1? 6 and para. 8 " 13 ".
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u121	Let's stop here. Thank you. I'm opening the discussion. There is a procedure by Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! An hour ago we asked for a break, giving you the opportunity to contact the Council of Ministers and to call Mr. Petkov the Prime Minister here. I'm making it clear that we don't need to call Mr. Petkov here to make him happy. The reasons for it to speak, to inform, to bring clarity to the MPs are already more than one. The crisis with the prices of basic products, the so-called force majeure, participation in important meetings. And something very important, Mr. Chairman, this is not about a third-rate political plot: to call the Prime Minister to hear it in order to create political intrigue. Since morning, three or four entrepreneurs, known or unknown, have called me and asked me: "What does this force majeure mode mean? "Does it mean that if they have contracts with different counterparties, they have the right not to pay them? Dear Mr President, honourable Members, in politics, but not only in politics, in business life, trust is key. If we even based on the news, only on the rumor that some exotic regime is being prepared, we achieve mistrust regarding the business operators who work in Bulgaria, the effect will be devastating. Therefore, please inform Members of the National Assembly what is the result of your talks with the Council of Ministers. If you have a communication problem, I can give you my phone to make the connection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u123	Thank you. I do not find it necessary for the Prime Minister to come and explain at the moment on this matter. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Absolutely serious! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Statements on the bill? The texts that Kiril Simeonov read are from § 37 to § 68 inclusive. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. The texts which I shall put to the vote again in full are the following: § 37...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These are the texts I'm putting to the vote. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u125	Thank you. Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u127	Thank you. They voted 142 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online. 144 total: 129 in the Chamber and 2 online.. 131, not against, abstentioned 13. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I've been announcing a half hour off, and then we'll continue reading from Mr. Simeonov. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u128	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We're going back to the meeting. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u129	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 67, which shall become § 69, by: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 276a, para. 3 the words................................................................................................. In order to ensure the 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 276b al. 3 is amended as follows: If necessary, the Vice-President shall carry out a review in accordance with para. 1 and 2 of the equity amount determined by each investment firm and, on its proposal, the Commission shall decide to require adjustments in the amount of own funds by setting the date by which the claims are to be made. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1, t. 6 the words "conflicts from the point of view of the risk' shall be replaced by "supervisory concerns'; (b) in para. 5 words "Alinea 4," t. For the purposes of para. 4 t. 2 shall not be included. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The additional own funds recommendation shall be the own funds that exceed the amount of own funds required by Part Three, fourth and seventh of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, Chapter 2 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402, Art. 276, para. 1, t. 11 point (b) or the combined buffer requirement under art. 92 (1a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and which is necessary to reach the overall level of own funds, which the Commission considers appropriate under para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) in para. 7 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 5. Articles 276e and 276f are amended as follows: "Requirements in the application of a forced administrative measure under art. 276, para. 1, t. 20 (a) Art. 276e. (1) The Financial Supervision Commission may, on the basis of art. 276, para. 1, t. Article 20 (a) to impose on an investment firm under art. 9a, para. 1 requirements for additional or more frequent provision of information where this information is not repeated and any of the following conditions is met: 1. there is one of the cases of Art. 1. 276, para. 6; 2. The Commission shall consider it necessary to collect the evidence referred to in Article 2. 276, para. 6, p. 2, and that it is likely that the investment firm in the next 12 months will violate provisions of that law, of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 or of their implementing acts; 3. the additional information is necessary for the purposes of the supervisory review and evaluation process. (2) For the purposes of para. 1 the information shall be repeated where the same or essentially the same information has already been provided to the Commission and the Commission may draw up the same or essentially the same information as the additional information it would receive. (3) The Financial Supervision Commission shall not require additional information where such information has already been provided to the Commission in a different form or at a different level of detail, of the same quality and reliability, and the Commission may draw up information with the same level of detail, quality and reliability as the information that would have been obtained as additional. Requirements for the application of forced administrative measure under art. 276, para. 1, t. 20 (b) Art. 276f. The Financial Supervision Commission may, on the basis of art. 276, para. 1, t. 20 point (b) to impose on an investment firm under art. 20 point (b) to impose on an investment firm under art. 9a, para. 2 requirements for additional or more frequent reporting where the relevant requirement is appropriate and proportionate to the purpose by which additional information is required and the requested information shall not be repeated. The additional information shall be subject to art. 276d, para. 2 and 3. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 276g, para. 1 text before t. 1 is amended as follows: the Financial Supervision Officer where, in the case of the supervisory review and assessment carried out and an ongoing review for the use of internal models, it finds that an investment firm does not meet the conditions laid down in art. 12 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 or that it meets those conditions but is not exempted from liquidity requirement in accordance with art. Art. 43 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033, may, on the basis of art. 276, para. 1, t. Article 21 (a) to impose on an investment firm under Article 21 (a) to impose on an investment firm under Article 21 (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 9a, para. 2 special liquidity requirements in any of the following cases: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 68, which shall become § 70. Under § 69, there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 69. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 69, which shall become § 71: seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 290 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 after the words. 190, para. A comma shall be placed and added to the list. Article 229a 229c, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. 229d (a.k.a. (b) c. 4 after the word "supplier" is added "supplier." 7th, Art. and the words............................................................................................. 207, para. Article 4 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 208, para. Art. 1, art. No. 209, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 218, 219, 221 207, para. 1, Art. (c) c. 5 after the words. Article 27 (1) (b) is replaced by the following: Art. 27f, para. 1, para. 3, art. Art. 27g, paras 1 - 5, art. 27 and paragraphs 1 (d) c. 6 after the words. 61, para. A comma shall be placed and added to the list. 61 a................................................................................................. (e) point 15 is repealed. 2. In para. 3 the words "investment investment services' shall be replaced by "investment services or services' as an approved reporting mechanism or an approved publication mechanism under art. 1, t. 3.................................................................................. 3. In para. 7, p. 2 the number 276s is a comma and is added to it. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 70, which shall become § 72, as in para. 8 the words seven and five per cent are replaced by ten per cent and the words ten per cent is replaced by ten per cent. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 71, which shall become § 73, and in that regard shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 the words "synthesis" shall be replaced by the text before that. 1.................................................................................. Under § 72, there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 72. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 72, which shall become § 74: ................ 74.................................................................. The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: a) Previous text becomes para. 1 and in it: (aa) c. 28 after the words supplier or data reporting service provider.................................................................................................... 2 (1) (b) 36a of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 (bb) point 41 is amended as follows: ..41. An approved publication mechanism is a concept within the meaning of art. 2 (1) (b) 34 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014. (c) point 42 is repealed; (dd) paragraph 43 is amended as follows: It's 43. The approved reporting mechanism is a concept within the meaning of art. 2 (1) (b) 36 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014. d) c) c) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) point 68 is amended as follows: "68." "Collective financial holding company' is a parent undertaking which is not a financial holding company, nor an investment holding company, nor a credit institution, nor an investment firm, nor a mixed financial holding company within the meaning of Directive 2002/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate and amending Directives 73/239/EEC, 79/267/EEC, 92/49/EEC, 92/96/EEC, 93/6/EEC and 93/22/EEC and Directives 98/78/EC and 2000/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, hereinafter referred to as "Directive 2002/87/EC', and at least one of the subsidiaries of which it is an investment firm. (gg) point 70 is amended as follows: 70. A subsidiary company is an undertaking whose main activity is ownership or management of ownership, management of data processing services or similar activity which is ancillary to the main activity of one or more investment firms. (zh) c. 72 words. 26 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 14 of Regulation (EU) No 2019/203"; (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) k) are created t. 83.. 94: "83." A commodity and emission allowance dealer is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 150 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 84. The relationship between a parent undertaking and a subsidiary within the meaning of art. 22 of Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings and amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC (OB, L 182/19 of 29 June 2013) , or accounting standards which the investment firm is obliged to comply with under Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting standards, or similar relationship between a natural or legal person and an undertaking. 85. The group capital test shall be complied with by a parent undertaking in a group of investment firms with the requirements of art. 8 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033. 86. A gender-neutral remuneration policy is a remuneration policy based on equal pay between men and women for equal work or for work of equal value. 87. "Consulated state" is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 11 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033. 88. The group of investment firms is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 25 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033. 89. In the case of an entity that is not a financial institution, the entity shall be considered to be a financial institution within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the basis of Article 4 (1) (b) of 90. "Complex financial holding company" is a concept within the meaning of art. 2, p. 15 of Directive 2002/87/EC. 91. A Union parent holding firm is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 56 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033. 92. A parent holding company in the Union is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 57 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033. 93. A Member State shall inform the Commission and the other Member States of any change to the terms and conditions laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article. 4 (1) (b) 58 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033. 94. The restructuring aid is a concept within the meaning of § 1, point (c) of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 42 of the additional provisions of the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. (b) the creation of para. 2: In the case of investment firms under art. 9a, para. 2, except for the concepts in para. 1, t. 1.. 25, 27.. 67, 69, 71, 73.. 82, 86, 94, art. 229 also apply the following terms: 1. supplied holding is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 22 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 2. "Administrative Services Company" is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 18 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 3. "Financial institution" is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 26 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 2. In § 2: (a) in para. 1: (aa) a new t is created. 6 and so on. 7 and 8: It's six. Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2019 amending Directive 2009/138/EC on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (Solvency II), Directive 2014/65/EU on markets in financial instruments and Directive (EU) 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing (OJ L 334/155 of 27 December 2019) . 7. Directive (EU) 2019/878 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Directive 2013/36/EU as regards exempted entities, financial holding companies, mixed financial holding companies, remuneration, supervisory measures and capital conservation measures (OB, L 150/253 of 7 June 2019). 8. Directive (EU) 2019/2034 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on prudential supervision of investment firms and amending Directives 2002/87/EC, 2009/65/EC, 2011/61/EU, 2013/36/EU, 2014/59/EU and 2014/65/EU (OJ L 314/64 of 5 December 2019) . (bb) The previous item. 6 is going to be t. 9; (b) in para. 2 is created t. 9. Nine. Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on prudential requirements for investment firms and amending Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 575/2013, (EU) No 600/2014 and (EU) No 806/2014 (OB, L 314/1 of 5 December 2019) .?.......................................................................................................... 3. In § 3, para. 2 sentence first at the beginning is added "In relation to investment firms under art. 9a, para. In a sentence second after the word "Administratives" the words "Administratives" shall be added. 9a, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter 4. Paragraph 5: (a) in para. 1 after the words "In compliance with the supplier' is added "Regulation (EU) 2019/2033' or "Regulation (EU) No 600/2014' and after the words "Regulation (EU) No 600/2014' is added "Directive (EU) 2019/2034' or "Directive (EU) 2019/2034'; (b) in para. 2 after the words the authorisations and approvals shall be added by Regulation (EU) 2019/2033. 5. In the Annex to § 1, t. 10, in Section I, t. 1 (b) The word "Societals" shall be replaced by "Sciences" and "Sciences" shall be replaced by "Sciences" and "Sciences" shall be replaced by "Sciences" and "Sciences" shall be replaced by "Sciences" and "Sciences" shall be replaced by "Sciences." "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the CPNS: To create a new § 73: .............................................................................. The licences issued by the Financial Supervision Commission until the entry into force of this Act as a data reporting services provider retain their effect. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 75: ................................................................................... The licences issued by the Financial Supervision Commission until the entry into force of this Act as a data reporting services provider retain their effect. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 73, which becomes § 76, and the words of the Financial Instruments Markets Act and the levity value of the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 74, which shall become § 77, as in para. 1 and 2 words from the Financial Instruments Markets Act are deleted. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 75, which shall become § 78: ...... 78............................................................................ Investment firms shall bring their activities into line with the requirements of this law within three months of its entry into force. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 76, which shall become § 79, i.e. 5x10 becomes t. 5 and 9 are amended as follows: It's five o'clock. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: . (2) Where the Commission is a group supervisory authority and receives a request under para. 1, it shall notify the supervisory authorities participating in the supervisory college and the European Authority and shall forward the request to them in a timely manner, together with all the attached documents. The Commission, as a member of the Supervisory College, may request the European Authority to provide technical assistance under art. point (b) of Article 8 (1) of Regulation (EU) No are replaced by the following: (b) in para. The first sentence is amended as follows: "If the European Authority does not take a decision under para. 6 in accordance with art. The final decision shall be taken by the Commission where it is a group supervisory authority. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 258, para. The first sentence is amended as follows: "If the European Authority does not take a decision under para. 5 in accordance with art. The final decision shall be taken by the Commission where the final decision is a group supervisor. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 294, para. 2 the words "and investment firms" shall be deleted. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The Commission shall adopt a decree on the validation of a methodology for determining the amount of compensation for property and non-material damage resulting from bodily damage to an injured person and for determining the amount of compensation for property and non-material damage to an injured person resulting from the death of an injured person, on the basis of the methodology under art. 535, p. 11. (b) paragraph 5 is repealed. 9. In the additional provisions: (a) § 1, t. 31, point (c) is replaced by EUR 6 200 000 (EUR 6600 000) and the words EUR 12 800 000 (EUR 13 600 000) are replaced by EUR 13 600 000 (EUR 13 600 000); (b) Paragraph 7, para. 1 is created t. 12: ..12. Article 12 of Directive (EU) 2019/2177 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2019 amending Directive 2009/138/EC on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (Solvency II), Directive 2014/65/EU on markets in financial instruments and Directive (EU) 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing (OB, L 334/155 of 27 December 2019) .?.......................................................................................................... Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 77, which shall become § 80: § 80. The Financial Supervision Commission Act (inc., SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 1 the words "data reporting services providers' shall be replaced by the approved publication mechanisms, the approved reporting mechanisms'; (b) c. 5 words shall be deleted and after the words "Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 575/2013, (EU) No 600/2014 and (EU) No 806/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on prudential requirements for investment firms and amending Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 575/2013, (EU) No 600/2014 and (EU) No 806/2014 (OB, L 314/1 of 5 December 2019) are added. , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2019/2333'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. Article 8 is inserted after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013'. 4 (1) (b) 7 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 (b) c. 15 Finally a comma shall be placed and added to the approved reporting mechanisms and approved publication mechanisms. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 7 the word "Register' is replaced by "Register'; (b) c. 23 the Bulgarian National Bank is a comma and the Minister of Finance is added, and after the words the comma is placed and the participation in cooperation platforms is added; (c) c. 26 the European Banking Authority (European Banking Authority) shall be a comma after the words and shall be added to the European System Risk Board's warnings and recommendations; (d) shall be established. 38 and 39: "38." on a proposal from the alternate vice-president, exercise the powers under Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 and take measures in relation to its implementation; 39. on a proposal from the alternate vice-president shall exercise the powers of a competent authority under Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 and shall take measures relating to its implementation. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 the words "sixteen and thirty-seven" are replaced by "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" are replaced by "sixteen" and "sixteen" are (b) c. 6, 7 and 16 after the words "Regulation (EU) 2017/2402', a comma is added and a point is added and a point is added to the "Regulation (EU) 2019/203'. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17a, para. 1 Finally, the Financial Instruments Markets Act added. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1, t. 1 and 6 and para. 3 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013' are deleted and after the words "Regulation (EU) 2019/288' the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013' are deleted and the words "Regulation (EU) 2019/203' are added. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 2, p. 1 after the words "Regulation (EU) 2019/288', the words "Regulation (EU) 2019/203' are replaced by the words "Regulation (EU) 2019/033'. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 4 after the words "the central bank' shall be a comma and the central bank's system shall be added; (bb) c. 6 the words of the European Authority shall be replaced by the words of the European Commission, the European Authority. (c) New tc shall be created. 11 and 12: "11." to the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank for the purposes of assessments of the Financial Sector Assessment Programme; 12. before the Bank for International Payments for the purposes of quantitative impact studies; (dd) To be established. 13: "13." before the Financial Stability Board for the purposes of its supervisory functions; (dd) Previously on "Development" 11 and 12 are respectively t. 14 and 15; (b) A new para shall be created. 7. . (7) Under the conditions of para. 6 information may also be provided to other authorities from third countries carrying out the following tasks: 1. supervision of financial institutions and financial markets, including supervision of financial entities licensed to operate as central counterparties where central counterparties are recognised under art. 25 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012; 2. liquidation and insolvency of investment firms or equivalent procedures; 3. supervision of authorities involved in the liquidation and insolvency of investment firms or equivalent procedures; 4. carrying out mandatory audits of financial institutions or institutions managing compensatory mechanisms; 5. supervision of persons entrusted to carry out statutory audits of the accounts of financial institutions; 6. supervision of persons trading in the emission allowance trading markets in order to ensure a consolidated review of financial markets and spot markets; 7. supervision of persons trading in the markets for agricultural commodity derivatives in order to ensure a consolidated review of financial markets and spot markets. c) the current para. 7 and 8 become respectively. 8 and 9; (d) the current para. 9 becomes para. 10 and in it the words "al." 3 and 7' are replaced by "al'. 3 and 8 (e) the current para. 10 becomes para. 11; (f) the current para. 11 becomes para. 12 and in it the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No (g) create para. 13 and 14: The information relating to professional secrecy may be provided to the authorities under para. 1, t. The following conditions shall be met after an explicit request of the authority concerned and where at least the following conditions are met: 1. the request is duly motivated in view of the specific activities carried out by the requesting authority in accordance with its powers; 2. the request shall specify in sufficient detail the nature, scope and form of the requested information and the way it is disclosed or transmitted; 3. the requested information is strictly necessary for the performance of the specific tasks of the requesting authority and does not exceed the statutory powers conferred on it; 4. the information shall be transmitted or disclosed only to persons directly engaged in the performance of the specific task; 5. persons having access to the information shall be subject to professional secrecy requirements which are at least equivalent to the requirements of art. 53 (1) of Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms, amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/48/EC (OB, L 176/338 of 27 June 2013) . (14) In the cases of para. 13 The Commission may disclose only aggregated or anonymised information, and other information only in its premises. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 2: s (2) Fees, as well as interest accrued for late payments, shall be public government claims. (b) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: In the event of non-payment within the established period of the fee for carrying out general financial supervision, the Commission and its authorities may refuse the provision of an administrative service to the supervised entity until their obligation to pay the fee is fulfilled, together with the interest charged for the delay and the costs of the enforcement proceedings initiated under para. 7. In the cases referred to in the first sentence, the time limit for the provision of the service shall start from the day following the date on which the fee has been paid in full. (c) in para. 6 a comma is placed after the word.... and added.. except in the cases laid down in the (d) in para. 7 words by para. the following points are inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (i) (e) in para. 8 is then added without interest. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) A new para shall be created. 1: . (1) Fines and penalty payments, as well as interest due on penalty payments, are public government claims. (b) the current para. 1 becomes para. 2 and in it, the words "The fines and penalty payments' shall be replaced by "the fines, penalty payments and interest on penalty payments'; c) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3 and is amended as follows: In the event of non-payment of fines due, penalty payments and interest on property penalties, the Commission and its authorities may refuse the provision of an administrative service to the supervised entity until their obligations to pay the fines due, penalty payments and interest on property penalties, including under the enforcement procedure initiated under para. 2. In the cases referred to in the first sentence, the time limit for the provision of the service shall start from the day following the date on which the fines, penalty payments due, and interest on property penalties are paid in full. (d) the creation of para. 4. . (4) The amounts paid and wrongly paid for fines and penalty payments shall be refunded without interest. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 1 t. 18 is amended as follows: 18. approved reporting mechanisms and approved publication mechanisms under art. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act; 12. Article 11 is inserted in Chapter 11. 33: The Commission Art. 33. A person who, within one month of the entry into force of a criminal decree has not paid the penalty imposed on him, owes interest in the amount of the legal interest for the period from the date following the date of expiry of the one-month period until the date of payment. 13. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 11: "11." The date of the payment shall be the day on which the amount transferred was entered into the account of the Financial Supervision Commission. 14. In the annex to art. 27, para. 1: (a) in Section I: (aa) II: (aaa) in the text before row 1 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013', the words "Regulation (EU) 2019/203' are replaced by the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013'; (bbb) row 19 is repealed; (cc) Row 24a shall be created: 24a. approving financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies under art. 229a, para. 1 and 2 of SFI 5000 BGN (dd) in row 25, the following shall be added after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013': (edd) in row 26, at the end of the period, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation shall be added to the amount of assigned revenue in (fe) in row 29, the words "data reporting services provider' shall be replaced by an approved reporting mechanism or approved publication mechanism under art. 1, t. In the case of an undertaking, it is not possible to determine whether the aid is compatible with the internal market or whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. (jjg) in row 30, the words "data reporting services provider' shall be replaced by a.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 208, para. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the aid (bb) in point V: (aaa) in row 13, the words (bbb) in row 15 the words (bb) in row 30, the words (gd) in row 34 the words (e) row 36 after the word "funds" shall be comma and shall be added different from the company in charge and the words "of the company in charge" shall be replaced by the words "of the company in charge," and the words "of the company in charge" shall be replaced by "of the company in question," and the words "of the company in question, of the company in question, of the company in question, of the company in question, of the company in (fe) in row 38 the words (b) in Section II, point I: (aa) in row 7, 8 and 9, the application of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 is finally added; (bb) Row 10a shall be created: 10a. by Union parent investment firms, Union parent investment holding companies or Union parent mixed financial holding companies of BGN 5000; (c) in Section IV: (aa) in the first sentence of point V, the applicant shall be amended as follows: In the cases of withdrawal of the application and in the proceedings under point II, the applicant shall owe 80 per cent of the amount of the fee concerned, and the remainder shall be reimbursed to the applicant without interest; (bb) point IX is amended as follows: "X." The due fees shall be paid in cash or without cash on the account of the Financial Supervision Commission of the Bulgarian National Bank. The payment of the relevant fee shall be certified by means of a fee payment document, unless carried out electronically. (c) point X is amended as follows: "X." In the event of non-payment within the established term of a balance of a fee referred to in Section I in relation to item III or a fee under Section II on the amount due shall be charged and interest shall be due for the period from the date following the date of expiry of the payment period until the date of payment. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 78, which shall become § 81. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 79, which shall become § 82, of which 1 letter (s) and point (b) of Article 2 (1) and point (c) of Article 2 (1) and point (c) of Article 2 (1) and point (d) of Article 2 (1) and point (e) of Article 2 (1) and point (e) of Article 2 (1) and point (e) of Article 2 (1) and point (e) of Article 2 (1) and point (e) of Article 2 (1) and point (e) of Article 2 (1) and point (e) of Article 4 (1) and point (e) of Article 4 (1) and point (e) The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 80, which shall become § 83, by: 1. In point (a), point (a) (a) in letter (s), in para. point 1 (b) is replaced by the following: (b) point (b) is amended as follows: (b) in para. 2, in the text before t. 1 after the word the Bank is added by para. 1, t. 1.................................................................................. 2. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1: (aa) in the text before t. 1 the words "credit institution and investment firm' shall be replaced by "institution and industrial holding company'; (bb) points 1 and 2 are amended as follows: "1." under art. 2, para. 2, p. One, two, six, eight, ten, thirteen. 2. acquisition of holdings; (b) in para. The first sentence is amended as follows: The financial institution is also an investment firm, financial holding company, mixed financial holding company, investment holding company, payment institution, electronic money company and management company. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Article 5 (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 13a, para. 2 words first, etc. Art. 8, Art. 14, para. 3, p. 6 and so on. 10 "12" shall be replaced by a sentence first, 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Art. 7, Art. 36, para. 1 t. 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. establish that a bank performs only services and activities under art. 6, para. 2, p. 3 and 6 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act and for a period of 5 consecutive years the average value of its common assets is below the thresholds under art. 2, para. 1, t. Those measures should be implemented in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 5. Point 10 is amended as follows: ..10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 101a is created. 7. For the purposes of this Article, the term "institution" shall also include an investment firm. 6. point 16 is amended as follows: ..16. In § 4 of the additional provisions of para. 1 the words "investment firms', amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/48/EC' are replaced by "to amend Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC, Directive (EU) 2019/2034 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on prudential supervision of investment firms and amending Directives 2002/87/EC, 2009/65/EC, 2011/61/EU, 2013/36/EU, 2014/59/EU and 2014/65/EU (OJ L 314/64 of 5 December 2019) supposed to be at the end of the restructuring period. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 81, which shall become § 84. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 82, which shall become § 85: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 1, t. 3 the words "and investment firms" shall be deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013', a comma shall be added and an "of art' shall be added. 11 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2019/203 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on prudential requirements for investment firms and amending Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 575/2013, (EU) No 600/2014 and (EU) No , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2019/203" for investment firms under art. 9a, para. 1 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act and a comma is placed. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 4 t. 1 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013', a comma shall be added and an "of art' shall be added. 11 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 for investment firms under art. 9a, para. 1 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act and a comma is placed; (b) in para. 6, p. 12 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013', a comma shall be added to the list of investment firms under art. 9a, para. 1 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, expressed as a percentage of the applicable requirement under art. 11 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 multiplied by 12.5. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 6 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013', a comma shall be added to the list of investment firms under art. 9a, para. 1 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, expressed as a percentage of the applicable requirement under art. 11 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 multiplied by 12.5. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, t. 8 the words "the Commission and the comma in front of them' shall be deleted. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44, para. 1 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013', a comma is added and a point is added to Regulation (EU) 2019/2033. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55a the words "organ" under art. 2 for the purposes of art. Art. 55 and art. 106 are determined by a regulation of BNB and shall be replaced by.... for the purposes of Art. 106. 55 and 106 of the organ referred to in art. Art. 2, respectively 3 shall be determined by a BNB regulation, respectively by the Commission. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 2, p. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69, para. 2, p. 1 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013' is added as follows for investment firms under art. 9a, para. 1 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, calculated in accordance with the applicable requirement under art. 11 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 multiplied by 12.5 and 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69a, para. 17, p. 3 words.............................................................................. 276, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1, t. 2 after the words "Directive 2014/59/EU' is added to the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions, amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/48/EC (OB, L 176/338 of 27 June 2013). , hereinafter referred to as the........................................................................................................ (b) in para. 5 words................................................................................. 276, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1, t. 1: (aa) in point "s', after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013', a comma shall be added and added to the requirements of art. 11 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 for investment firms under art. 9a, para. 1 of the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments.............................................................................................. 276, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 276, para. 1, t. the following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Regulation (EU) No 231/2014): (bb) in point (b) (i), the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013" shall be inserted after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013." 11 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 for investment firms under art. 9a, para. 1 of the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments............................................................................................. 276, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 276, para. 1, t. the following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Regulation (EU) No 231/2014): (b) in para. 5, t. 2 words.............................................................................. 276, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 276, para. 1, (c) in para. 6 after the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 9a, para. 2 of the same (d) in para. 9 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013', a comma shall be added and a point shall be added and a point shall be inserted after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013'. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1, t. 1: (aa) in point 11 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 for investment firms under art. 9a, para. 1 of the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments.............................................................................................. 276, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 276, para. 1, t. the following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Regulation (EU) No 231/2014): (bb) in point (b) the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013" shall be inserted after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013." 11 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 for investment firms under art. 9a, para. 1 of the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments.............................................................................................. 276, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 276, para. 1, t. the following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Regulation (EU) No 231/2014): (b) in para. 5 words................................................................................. 276, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No (c) in para. 6 words................................................................................. 11, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of (d) in para. 9 the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013' are inserted after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013'; 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69e, para. 5 words................................................................................. 276, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71, para. 11, p. 1 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013', a comma shall be added and a sum shall be added for investment firms under art. 9a, para. 1 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act from the applicable requirement under art. 11 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 multiplied by 12.5. 16. In § 1 of the additional provisions, point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 is amended as follows: ..15. The investment firm is an investment firm which, according to art. 4 (1) (b) 22 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 is: 1. authorised under the terms and conditions of the Financial Instruments Markets Act and subject to which the initial capital requirement provided for in art. 10, para. 1 of the same law; 2. from another Member State authorised to provide investment services and to carry out investment activities under its national legislation introducing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU (OB, L 173/349 of 12 June 2014) , and subject to the initial capital requirement laid down in art. 9 (1) of Directive (EU) 2019/2034 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the prudential supervision of investment firms and amending Directives 2002/87/EC, 2009/65/EC, 2011/61/EU, 2013/36/EU, 2014/59/EU and 2014/65/EU (OJ L 314/64 of 5 December 2019) .?.......................................................................................................... The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 83, which shall become § 86: ........ 86...................................................................... In the Labour Code (prom., SG...) in art. 187, para. 2 the words "and investment firms' shall be deleted and, after the words "Directive 2003/87/EC' (OB, L 168/12 of 30 June 2017) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's all right, it's all right, it's all right. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 84, which shall become § 87. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 85, which shall become § 88: ...... 88............................................................................ In the Law on the Public Offering of Securities (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 145, para. 6 in the text before t. 1 the words "and investment firms" shall be deleted. 2. In § 1 of the additional provisions, i.e. 54, point (b) (b) (b) (c) of the first paragraph, the words "and investment firms" shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 86, which shall become § 89. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 87, which becomes § 90. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 88, which shall become § 91. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 89, which shall become § 92. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 90, which shall become § 93: ..... 93......................................................................... In the Act on supplementary supervision of financial conglomerates (prom., SG No. ...) in § 1 of the additional provisions of point (c) 19 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), the words "and investment firms" shall be deleted. 2. In the letter "in" the words "art." 10, para. 7 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, respectively, are being deleted. Under § 91, there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 91. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 91, which shall become § 94: ............................................................................... The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 79, p. 1, 4 and so on. 9 (a) and (b) which enter into force on 19 October 2022 (b)
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Simeonov. Congratulations, really! [[Applause from..We continue the Change, BSP for Bulgaria................................................................................................... Replices.]] I'm opening the discussion. Vladislav Panev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u131	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, congratulations from me to Mr. Simeonov for his expressive reading. I would like to make a motion for annulment in § 76, which becomes § 79, p. 8 letter (b)............................................................................................... 5 is canceled. I would like us to vote separately on the letter 'b', 'al'. 5 is canceled. Alinea 5 is about a methodology by which compensation is considered to be non-essential damage in insurance events. The methodology has not yet been adopted. It must be adopted by the Financial Supervision Commission, perhaps at any time, at times a month for example. If it is accepted and we cancel para. 5, then we will create a serious risk to the insurance market and to the people who are insured under the liability, namely, it is very likely that the victims, mostly in the case of accidents, will start to sue not the insurance company and ask for compensation from it, but directly from the individuals who cause the damage. This creates a certain risk of reducing the impact of the liability arising from this insurance, which would also cause problems on the entire insurance market. So I would like you to support me in this § 76, which becomes § 79, t. 8 letter (b)............................................................................................... 5 is cancelled, to be cancelled, that is to say, to make a cancellation of the cancellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u132	Thank you, Mr. Panev. So, on page 58 of the Report, where the text proposed by the Commission is............................................................................................. Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, 493a, point (b) and the text of which is "al." 5 is canceled, canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u133	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u134	Okay, we're going to vote on this editorial proposal. Replies to Vladislav Panev there is Professor Rumen Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u135	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We discussed this issue in the Budget Committee and supported the text as it entered, noting that MPs should always work on the balance of interests between all stakeholders. And since this is about human destinies and different interests, we must be particularly careful. Since there has been further discussion with the Financial Supervision Commission and with the Ministry of Finance, we do not mind canceling the cancellation in letter "b', para. 5, but also on behalf of our fellow Members, we strongly insist that, if such a decision is adopted in this paragraph, which remains in the Fifth Law, the following should be recorded: Why? For this methodology under the Law of 2018 should have been adopted, but it has not been adopted. And in order not to leave such opportunities for discussions between the parties responsible for the implementation of the Law, I propose that once again, it should be recorded: The method to be adopted by 31 May 2022............. and then we will have no doubt that this issue will be delayed in time for some or other interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u136	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Gechev, I'll just look into the existing text of the Law. Such a time limit is in principle in the Transitional and Final Rules of the Law. [[Definitions between the MP Rumen Gechev and the Chairman.]] Yeah, I get it. Okay, I'll take a look at it. Thank you. Any other lines to Vladislav Panev? I can't see. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u137	Thank you. We discussed this with Mr. Gechev. Indeed, the Methodical text was adopted as early as 2018, but no methodology has been adopted for four years anyway. Recording such a text with a deadline of 31 May 2022 is a good push to the Financial Supervision Commission to do its job. So I support Mr. Gechev's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u138	Thank you. Just a second. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. Okay, Professor Gechev, I don't see you alone, yes, your proposal I suggest we shape it in this way: it is set according to whether Vladislav Panev's proposal will be accepted so I understand. But my offer is then. [[Definitions between the MP Rumen Gechev and the Chairman.]] Okay, Professor Gechev's proposal we agreed to form it in the following way: in § 76, according to the numbering of an importer, which becomes § 79, which regulates changes in the Insurance Code, we create a new point 493a is adopted by 31 May 2022. 11, because I see that the import texts are up to 10. It was the right thing to do, wasn't it? Thank you. Okay, and I say again, this proposal is based on the adoption of Vladislav Panev's proposal, so unless Vladislav Panev's proposal is accepted, we will not put to the vote Professor Gechev's proposal. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. First, editorial proposals. First of all, I put to the vote the editorial proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Vladislav Panev in § 79 on the numbering of the Committee on Budget and Finance in the proposal for amendment to this point. 8, which reads:............................................................................................ 493a entire letter to be dropped. The text of the letter "b', para. 5 is repealed. Vladislav Panev's proposal is to drop the entire letter. Eva Miteva? Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u139	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): Cons.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u140	Thank you. Vote in this House 138 MPs plus 1 online.. 139: 54 against 16 plus 1 online................................................................................................. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u141	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u142	Revoting, coworkers. Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u143	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): Cons.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u144	Thank you. They voted in this House 138 MPs plus 1 online.. 139: for 54, against 17 plus 1 online.. 18 abstentioned 67. The offer is not accepted. We will not put to the vote Rumen Gechev's editorial proposal, as it refers to para. Five, which is to cancel. I shall put the main texts to the vote as follows: § 69 in the version of the Commission, § 70 is an importer; paragraphs 71, 72, 73 and 74 are in the version of the Commission; the name of the division of the "Transitional and final provisions' is in the version of an importer; a new § 75, on a proposal from the Commission, paragraphs 76, 77, 78, 79 and 80, are in the version of the Commission; § 81 is by an importer; paragraphs 82 and 83 are in the version of the Commission; § 84 is by an importer; paragraphs 85 and 86 are in the version of the Commission; § 87 is by an importer; paragraphs 89, 90, 91, 92 are by an importer supported by the Commission, and paragraphs 93 and 94 are in the version of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u145	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u146	Thank you. Vote in this House 128 MPs plus 1 online " 129": for 114 plus 1 online "115," not against, abstaining 14. The proposal has been adopted, and thus the Second Voting Bill. So we ran out of item two of the day's agenda. Moving on to point three: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLETION OF THE LAW FOR THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE PROCEDURE AND THE CONSERVATION UNDER PASSION. A report of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs has come in. Here you go, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First-vote report: At its regular meeting held on 9 March 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention, No 47 202-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2022. The meeting was attended by Mr. Emil Dechev. Deputy Minister of Justice. The bill was presented by Mr. Dechev, who pointed out that the proposed legislative changes created a legal possibility for the convoy of persons with an established measure for non-reserved detention in cases of exceptional personal and family reasons. He clarified that the legal framework in force allows for the cessation of detention or leave only of prisoners and the convoy of persons with a measure of non-violence is possible only to the judicial authorities or detention places. The draft law implementing the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Vetsev v. Bulgaria (Vecev) establishes a mechanism for individual assessment of the judicial authorities regarding the existence of legitimate interest of the defendants and defendants with a measure of non-violation of detention under guard to be convoy for reasons of personal and family nature. It is proposed in the presence of a specific reason of exceptional nature to conduct convoy by the General Directorate of Security and, if necessary, by the General Directorate of the General Directorate of the Punishment. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Branimir Balachev and Krum Zarkov. Mr. Balachev expressed the need to adopt the proposed provisions which remove the gap in legislation and pointed out that he would support the proposed draft law. Mr. Zarkov noted that he would support the legislative initiative in order to bring the consequences of the European Court of Human Rights' decision into line. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with 15 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention, No 47-202-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u148	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Madam Minister, for an importer's opinion? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In today's session, you will consider at first reading the Law amending the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention, which is limited by its scope and may, at first glance, regulate not a very significant problem, as long as it does not affect too large a circle of people, namely the right of prisoners to leave prison for important reasons, especially of a family nature. This bill is extremely important, however, and I urge you to pay attention to it and support it, because it is one of the first steps I hope this Parliament will take to solve the problem we have in Bulgaria for the very high number of unfulfilled decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Over the years Bulgaria has unfortunately been in one of the top places on unfulfilled solutions. I have had the opportunity to pay attention to you before and to call on you not to miss out on the focus of your attention human rights and to put all together maximum effort in order to improve our legislation and ensure, to a greater extent, the rights and fundamental freedoms of our citizens. Therefore, once again, I suggest that you approve the proposed draft amendment and supplement to the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u150	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm opening a discussion on the submitted bill. Here you are, Mr. Petrov, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, just to correct a slight mistake on the part of the Minister. The law concerns not those imprisoned but those detained in pre-trial proceedings and the possibility of their convoy on the territory of the country. This bill establishes certain legal guarantees with regard to persons with the most severe measure of non-violation within pre-trial proceedings, namely detention under guard, when there are exceptional reasons of personal and family nature, the same can be confederated within the territory of the country. So far, the creation of guarantees is good, I will personally support it, but I believe that this legal proposal creates an internal inequality between the measures for non-violence. And I'll give you an example. This bill, as the Minister rightly pointed out, is created precisely to change our framework and to respond to a decision from 2019 of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Vetsev v. Bulgaria. Imagine that the mentioned Mr. Vetsev, at a later stage in the event of circumstances, is again attracted as a defendant. It doesn't happen, but... And he was attracted as a defendant, he was taken a measure of non-violence, but the court considered that the request for a measure of non-violent detention should not be satisfied and considered that a lighter measure, namely domestic arrest, should be taken in respect of that gentleman. This measure also constitutes a restriction on the movement of the accused person. And what happens? He performs the measure, stays at home. Every day he greets colleagues from, say, the V police, who check him, treats them with coffee at the entrance and the measure runs within the time limit for which he is ordered by the court. However, at one point the same human tragedy occurs, namely, a very close relative of his goes from this world to the other side of the country. And this person, according to your legislative proposal, has several options. The first option is to go in order to request permission from the authority which gave him the measure under art. 62 of the PPC, namely the court. There I have to tell you that there is a very broad possibility of individual, individual and subjective assessment of the grounds for allowing permission to leave the residence and, consequently, if that request is not respected, to go this way through national protection, respectively, and to reach again to the European Court of Human Rights, because the same gentleman already has a successful previous procedure, and to hope that the legislation will then be changed so that, even when placed under house arrest, he may, for the same exceptional reasons of personal and family character, be allowed to be in another place for, do not give yourself a personal tragedy. Last time it took him only seven years, evidently from the motives of the Bill. The second option that you will create with these legal guarantees that are given to him is tomorrow not to meet the colleagues at the entrance of the apartment, but to intercept them at the corner of the street like this with their hands [[shows]] In which they immediately arrested him because he violated his so-called measure of non-violence. The prosecutor will immediately ask for the more severe incarceration, the court will, of course, immediately respect it within a few days and then, now that he is in custody, he falls within the circle of these legislative changes proposed by the Council of Ministers and can safely benefit from the guarantees that you are creating for him and be convoyed to the other end of the country where he may possibly be able to participate in this funeral. I believe, my fellow Members, that once this legislative proposal is adopted, such inequality will be created, so that you are creating legal guarantees under the more severe measure of non-decisiveness that the person may be convoluted when there are exceptional reasons of a personal and family nature, and in light of the measure of domestic arrest, it will be left on, I repeat, the independent, subjective and individual assessment of the determining authority in pre-trial proceedings, which is not the same. I believe that there should not be one more relaxed regime for the more severe measure, therefore ergo legal guarantees, and that there should not be such a legally guaranteed possibility that we are currently trying to make in the light of this measure. However, as we are currently amending the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention, and on the other hand, the measure of house arrest is regulated in art. 62 of the PPC, there is no way to make a proposal between first and second readings. So at least we will make the relevant proposals, reciprocal and mirror, but in the PPC, which will allow the gentleman, if he is again in the same situation of life as he was in that decision since 2019, not to have to violate the regime of a lighter measure on purpose in order to be able to be detained and then benefit from these legal guarantees. And my appeal is when proposals are made, especially within criminal proceedings, not to be taken lightly, because here we solve life's fates, we solve specific cases. Unfortunately, the jokes and the pranks were yesterday, when in the Legal Commission the prosecution explained how they successfully fought crime at 50% justified for eight years in the Specialized Court. Today we are already discussing concrete, practical cases, so I ask you very much, fellow Members, that we reflect on them. And I ask the importers, when proposing such legislative changes, first of all, to be informed about the applicability of their legislative changes, and secondly, to make them so that we do not now wonder how we can between first and second reading make changes that we cannot make. Unless we equalize the persons placed under house arrest, for example, with the judges of the entries. The rest you know how it can happen, has already been done here in this National Assembly. We will support the Bill, but unfortunately, we will also have to make relevant proposals for changes. Again, they're mirrored. We hope that, when imported, you will support them, so that the regime of those detained with the various measures for non-violence in pre-trial proceedings is the same and creates equal legal guarantees, not to say privileges. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u152	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u153	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! Colleague Petrov, I cannot agree with you that the two measures have the same regulation because, as far as I know, you are a penalist and you are aware that in the measure of inviolation we have imprisonment and in this case it is about the solution of convoying. In the case of persons who are subject to a measure of non-violent house arrest, this is controlled and exit from the home is permitted by a simple request to the monitoring prosecutor. I can give you at least hundreds of cases where there are free movement of persons who have a measure of house arrest. As long as persons under a non-retention measure are not held in custody, this is not possible and at no time does there exist the possibility of free movement of those persons. These are the changes that are actually being proposed by the Ministry of Justice and which are being sought to be supported in the present case, and we will support. I took the floor as there is little manipulation on your part, as few of the people are penalists here. It's not the same. It's not the same. It's not the same. The way of moving and actually leaving home and visiting relevant sites and so on is in an extremely relieved way, which makes it absolutely all prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u154	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any other lines, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u155	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Petrov, I disagree with you that these changes cannot be made between first and second readings. Our National Assembly has proven that it can do anything. There was a Water Act, which led us to move NIMH from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Environment and Water from cleaning the troughs. So anything is quite possible to happen here. Of course, there's been a lot of bullshit going on. I believe that in this case, something sensible can happen, making it possible to avoid further condemnation in the European Court of Human Rights in almost similar cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u156	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Is there a third line, colleagues? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u157	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, the clarification was not necessary, as I am very well aware of the purpose of the bill. That's why I said I'd support him. Yes, there really is no such legal regime. Yes, it is indeed necessary in accordance with the European Court of Human Rights' decision. Yes, a similar legislative change needs to be made. Again, I would like to point out, and I am pleased that you have indicated that a request is being made with a request from the prosecutor. Once again, I will have to repeat that, unfortunately, the authorisation and respect for this application is placed on the individual, subjective and independent assessment, which is quite wide. In this, unfortunately, individual and subjective judgment, you do not have these guarantees that when exceptional personal and family reasons exist, the person will be allowed by that authority to travel to the other end of the country. In which he, if this request is not respected, you know very well, I suppose he will have to refer to the court to change this measure eventually to a lighter one, that is to say to go the national path of protection and to get back to the European Court of Human Rights. I say again, last time it took him about seven years to get the present moment when we were changing the Law for this. This is what we are trying to avoid, colleague Dimitrov, by saying that unfortunately, it is necessary to unify and the opportunity that we are currently creating for one measure to be possible with relevant, unfortunately, subsequent, separate legislative changes in the Law of Procedure and the other measure. Because, although you claim that it is much lighter, it is difficult enough in its essence, because the difference between the two measures is only that in detention and not in prison, the state feeds you in custody while in domestic detention you are at home, but in both measures you are restricted.... you cannot leave the place where you are. On top of that, you are checked once or twice a day by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and, of course, you can go somewhere only with the permission of the said authority, which is in charge of pre-trial proceedings. It is precisely in order to avoid the need for people with a lighter measure to resort to the heavier one in order to fall into this favourable regime, which we are creating for them with this legislative proposal, that we believe it is necessary to unite these favourable legal opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u158	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Andrey Mihaylov for a speech, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I'd like to make one thing very brief. The difference between the two measures for procedural coercion. The detention and domestic arrest is not only the feeding, it is not only the lowering of the type of measures, they are different in nature. What is proposed in this bill is related to the convoy of the detained person under guard in exceptional circumstances. Yes, indeed motivation is a judgmental decision against Bulgaria, but when such a hypothesis occurs to a detained person, then there is no choice but to violate his rights or to convoy in such an emergency case. The case has passed away the brother of the detained person, we, Bulgaria, did not allow him to attend the funeral and we are therefore condemned. That's what we're doing right now, fixing the outcome of the judgment. In terms of detention, that's what it is. In terms of house arrest. In house arrest, the difference, as I said, is not only this ironic, devoid of respect for food. No, colleagues. The difference is that the person under house arrest may request to go to such a sad event as has happened if we look at the specific case, and this request will be respected, meaning the difference is also in control. A person under house arrest can also be controlled by technical means. So the difference between the two measures of procedural coercion is substantial. Here the problem is only with regard to detention, not with regard to house arrest. In view of this, I propose that we support the text as proposed by the importer and as voted by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u160	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Are there any lines, coworkers? I can't see. Anybody else want to make a statement? I can't see. I'm putting an end to the discussion on the bill. Colleagues, I will put to the first vote the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention, the Chamber of Ministers, on 22 February 2022. Please, voting mode. Mr. Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u162	Thank you. Vote in this House 136 Members of Parliament and Online 1. 137 total: 124 and 1 online. 125 total, not against, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Thank you, Madam Secretary. For the procedure please, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, since they have not received any proposals for amendments and additions during the debate, I propose that the draft proposed in today's plenary session be considered for a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u164	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Mateev. Mr. Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u166	Thank you. They voted in this House 132 MPs and online 1.. 133 total: 114 and 1 online.. 115 total, not against, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mateev, please read the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 250 are created. 7 and 8: The defendants and defendants with a measure of non-reserved detention shall be escorted into the territory of the country where, for exceptional reasons of personal and family nature, this has been given by a judicial authority. (8) In the cases of para. 7 the convoy shall be carried out by staff of the General Directorate of Security and assistance may be requested if necessary from the Directorate General. Final provisions § 2. In the Law on the Judiciary (prom., SG No. ...) in art. The following additions are made: 1. In para. 3, p. 6 after the words to the authorities of the judicial authority......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. The creation of para. 8. . (8) The organisation and order of conduct of the convoy shall be determined by instruction of the Minister of Justice. § 3. Within four months of the entry into force of the law, the Minister of Justice shall: 1. It shall bring into line with it the regulations for the implementation of the convoy activity. 2. Provides the instruction under art. 391, para. 8 of the Judicial Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u168	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. I am opening a discussion on the name of the Bill, § 1, the name of the division, § 2 and § 3. Are there any people who want to make a statement, colleagues? I can't see. I call off the discussion and move on to voting on the texts so read by Mr. Matteev, the name of the Law and the division. Please, voting mode. Mr. Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u170	Thank you. Vote in this House 124 Members of Parliament and Online 1? 125 total: 121 and 1 online? 122 total, not against, abstention 3. With this, the bill was passed in a second vote. Thank you, Madam Minister, once again for participating today. I only announce that today the meeting will continue until 14.15 with a view to the request for a break from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. We're going to the fourth point, which is: HEARING OF THE MANAGER OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH COSSE FIVE COSSE SALCHEV 110 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON GENERAL, EXPLAINATION, REMONT AND CONTROL FOR THE REPRESENTATION OF EXAMINATIONS AND EXAMINATIONS FOR THE NEEDS OF PEOPLE WITH CONVERSATIONALS IN THE LAW ON PEOPLE WITH CONVERSIONS. Importers: Elisaveta BELOMRADOVA AND ALEXANDER SIMIDCHIUM Here you are, Mrs. Bellobradova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u171	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. In connection with the hearing of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, I offer permission to Mr. Salchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. Colleagues, please vote for Mr. Petko Salchev. Voting mode. Colleagues online: Eva Miteva? Lyubomir Karimansky? They voted 128 MPs in the House: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite Mr. Salchev to the hall. Colleagues, before we begin with the hearing itself, I will read to you the parliamentary control message for tomorrow March 18th, 9.00 p.m. Questions will be answered: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economy and Industry and Minister of Economy and Industry Cornelia Ninova will answer 2 questions from the MPs Mladen Shishkov and Ivo Ruschev and Nikolay Drenchev. 2. The Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev will answer 1 question from the MP Branimir Balachev. 3. The Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova will answer 1 question from the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova and 1 question from the National Representative Elena Guncheva. 4. The Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov will answer 5 questions from the MPs Petar Petrov; Boyko Klechkov; Elhan Kulkov; Zornitsa Stratieva; Alexander Dunchev and Miroslava Petrova and Vladimir Marinov and 1 question from the National Representative Mladen Shishkov. 5. The Minister of Electronic Governance Bozidar Bojanov will answer 4 questions from the MP Blagovest Kirilov. 6. Qaybak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ifak, Ik, Ifak, Ifak, Ik, Ifak, Ik, Ik, Ik, Ik, Ik, Ik, Ifak, Ik, Ik, Ik, Ik, Ik, Ifak, Ik, Ik, Ik, Ik, Ik, Ik, Ik, Ik, Ik, Ik, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, K, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka, Ka 7. The Minister of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov will answer 1 question from the MPs Zornitsa Stratieva and Julia Ivanova. 8. The Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov will answer 2 questions from the MPs Yavor Bojankov and Veska Nencheva and 1 question from the National Representative Ivelin Ivanov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 97, para. 2 of the MNS due to a business trip outside the country in the parliamentary control meeting will not participate: - Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policies and Minister for Environment and Water Borislav Sandov; - Minister of Energy Alexander Nikolov; - Minister of Health Asena Serbenova; - Minister of Tourism Hristo Prodanov. Due to urgent commitments in the parliamentary control meeting, there will be no participation: - Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadjov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Georgi Gokov. Mrs. Belobradova, you're welcome to present the subject at the hearing. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Salchev, thank you for respecting the National Assembly in order to discuss a problem that worries a huge part of our society, alasing the most vulnerable people with disabilities. In recent months, we have seen a continuing delay in the transition of the aids, gadgets, facilities and medical devices under the Law on Persons with Disabilities from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and its Social Assistance Agency to the National Health Insurance Fund. Everyone familiar knows that this transition from MLSP to NHIF has been delayed for the fourth year and after endless meetings of multiple working groups we have a date and it is July 1st. And although the fourth year we've been trying to work out this passage, it turns out there's a lot of ambiguities. This really worries people who are users of aids and medical devices, and we cannot afford to be irresponsible about this process. Both in the Commission and in the National Assembly, it is important to show that the National Health Insurance Fund will be ready on the date it has declared. People's concerns are related to the procedure under which the aids and medical devices will be obtained. Then how many and where will be the points for obtaining the medical devices we hope to get an answer. And also to talk about updating a list that has not been touched for 14 years and is a source not only of countless outdated, poor specifications, but also of long-standing speculations about corruption mechanisms, according to which certain importers of medical devices import infinitely poor medical devices and resell them at other prices. It's time to clarify. In this regard, I met a lady who has made it her job to find second-hand wheelchairs from Europe and arrange them in her garage to help those who simply cannot benefit from the state's provision because they are so poor that they lead to additional damage. Today's topic is extremely deep and raises many questions that we are yet to look at in individual committees, but now we are waiting for the manager to explain in detail the process on which he will start from July 1st, as well as to inform us about his plans to update the list of aids and medical devices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. Mr. Salchev, you have 10 minutes to answer the questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u175	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs. Belobradova, Dear Dr. Simidchiev, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen of the National Assembly. Indeed, this is a long - term problem. I would like to brief you on the development of the processes related to the preparation of a mechanism for providing and paying support from the NHIF, which started 12 years ago. In 2010, an attempt was made to prepare a mechanism for the payment of support from the NHIF. By order of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy at the time "Mr. Totyu Mladenov, an interdepartmental working group was established with the participation of the National Fund, the Ministry of Health, the Drug Executive Agency, the Agency for People with Disabilities and the Agency for Social Assistance with the task of preparing proposals for amendments to the legislation for implementation of a mechanism by which the NHIF to pay the aid. As a result, a report has been produced from the Director of the NHIF to the heads of the institutions involved in the Working Group on lack of legal basis and proposals for drafting a package of legislative changes. And then nothing really happened. In 2012, a second attempt was made to pay the aids from the NHIF, with the order of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy re-established an interdepartmental working group to draw up a final version of the Action Plan implementing the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The NHIF has been cited as a leading institution in relation to the provision and payment of support. As a result, the NHIF disagreed with Dr. Plamen Tsekov on the final version of the Plan because the health insurance model in the Republic of Bulgaria does not allow public funds intended for medical care to be spent for social services. In 2017 action was launched again to create a new mechanism for the provision and payment of support from the NHIF initially in implementation of Measure 136:.. Change of the mechanism for payment of the targeted aid for the development, purchase and repair of aids, facilities and medical devices................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. A report is presented by the MLSP in three directions: 1. Proposal for a transfer of assistance to the Ministry of Health and NHIF. The reasons are that for the most part the aids are medical devices and the therapy they are assigned with, and I stress with them the therapy is a kind of medical activity to be paid for by the health care system. European experience shall be indicated where medical devices and devices are paid by public funds in full or in part by national funds or other institutions with similar functions. 2. Restoration of the old order of 2007 for the provision of the support funds and the implementation of their payment by the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, and until October 2007, the payment was carried out by the Agency for Persons with Disabilities in the following order: entitled persons with Disabilities on the basis of a request lodged in the Directorate-General for Social Assistance, accompanied by an expert decision of the LKK, TELK or NELK, were authorised by order to use their right to support funds. With this document the support funds were received from a freely selected disabled authorised supplier company. 3. The provision of the support to continue to be carried out by the Agency for Social Assistance and to drop the report on expenditure by disabled persons. The activity of the working group shall end without result with regard to a change in legislation. In 2019 a new order was issued to the Minister of Health to establish a mechanism and standards for the quality of the aid by 30 August 2019 to regulate the financing and provision of it to the persons in need. The legal amendments to the Law on People with Disabilities and the Health Insurance Act were adopted. Visible from the provision of art. 45, para. 1, t. 15 of the SCI, with effect from 1 January 2020, the NHIF shall be entrusted with the payment of aid outside the scope of compulsory health insurance. The NHIF states that there is a discrepancy in the current legal and regulatory framework with regard to the basic regulation of financing activities and the granting of the aid in respect of the following legal acts: 1. Rules for the implementation of the Law on Persons with Disabilities; 2. Regulation No 10 on the conditions, procedure, mechanism and criteria for the payment by the NHIF of medicinal products, medical devices and diet food for special medical purposes, the negotiation of concessions and the reimbursement of excess funds in the application of a mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF budget; 3. The Regulation on the terms and conditions for drawing up a list of medical devices under art. 30a of the Law on Medical Devices and determining the value to which they are paid; 4. The Ordinance of 24 July 2019 on the conditions and arrangements for carrying out and monitoring the activities for the provision and repair of the aids; 5. The Rules of Procedure of the Executive Agency for Medicines and the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. The main conclusion of the work of the working group is that the purpose of the aid paid by the State is to increase the quality of life of disabled people and to help ensure their social adaptation. In accordance with Paragraph 9 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Disabled Persons Act, the NHIF considered that without administrative capacity being ensured, the rights of disabled patients could be jeopardised if a good organisation was not ensured in the conduct of the mechanism. At present, under the NHIF Budget Act for 2022, the granting, reporting, control and payment of aids and repairs to people with disabilities outside the scope of compulsory health insurance will be carried out by the NHIF as of 1 July 2022. The transition of the aid activity is regulated by an amendment of the Law on Persons with Disabilities. According to the wording of the provision of art. 73, para. 1 of the Ministry of Health and Health of the People with Disabilities are entitled to assistance outside the scope of compulsory health insurance, determined individually by a medical document issued by the medical advisory committees, TelK or NELK, on the basis of their specific needs and according to a specification established by the National Health Insurance Fund. According to the wording of the same provision................................................................................................. 73, para. 2 of the Law on Persons with Disabilities, the financing and the provision of support for people with disabilities should be implemented by the NHIF on the basis of a mechanism and quality standards, and the funds for this are provided by the State budget by means of the budget of the Ministry of Health. According to the wording of the provision: the financing mechanism and the standards under para. 2 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 2. 45, para. 9 of the Health Insurance Act and with the ordinance under art. 30a, para. 4 of the Law on Medical Devices, and the mechanism for providing and using the Rules for Law Enforcement. On the basis of art. 73 of the Disabled Act, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, issued an Order of 29 June 2021 establishing an interdepartmental working group with the participation of NHIF, the Ministry of Health, the Drug Executive Agency, AHU and ASP. The task of the interdepartmental group was to draw up a Technical Implementation Action Plan for the transmission of information and a database related to the activities of keeping a register under art. 88, as well as a proposal for a working mechanism with regard to the provision and use of assistance for people with disabilities. As a result of the work of the Working Group, the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund has established business processes for the granting, reporting and payment of aids from the NHIF, as well as the necessary information to draw up a specification with support and repair activities for the conduct of the procedure under Regulation No 7. In accordance with those legal provisions and in accordance with Regulation No 7, the Supervisory Board established by a decision the specification of the aids and initiated the procedure for negotiating the value of the aids. As a consequence of a change to Regulation No 7 of 12 December 2021, the following amendments were made: in art. 57, para. 3, p. 2 after the words the BDS EN ISO 9001 certificate shall be added to the internal quality system and in art. 57, para. 3, p. The second sentence is created: "When the applicant has not provided/produced the relevant aids/additions, facilities/medical devices during that period, the applicant shall sign a declaration in accordance with a template approved by the NHIF manager.' The legal amendments cited, as well as the possibility of admission of newly registered dealers to the Drug Executive Agency by means of assistance, provided the basis for a change in the decision of the Supervisory Board to initiate a new procedure to determine the value of the aid under the established specification of 16 November 2021. The NHIF subsequently established electronic business processes for granting, paying and controlling aids. An application has been made and is currently working to create a program product for e-prescription, granting and payment of aids and repairs to................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The programme product will be tested in the following period from 1 May 2022 to 31 May 2022. In the period from 1 June 2022 to 30 June 2022, testing will be carried out by retailers with aids and repairs and from 1 July the same product will be in operation. The electronic prescription, granting and payment processes are the following: In the case of an LKK/TELK protocol issued, documents which have been created outside the NHIF system, I stress, an application has been completed by the patient for consent to the prescribed aids and the need for them to be provided and the prescription will be carried out on a NHIF specification without mention of the commercial names. By means of an automatic electronic interface, the LKK/TELK sends to the Cashier's Information System data on the issued protocols and applications to them for support. The information on the issued LKK/TELC Protocol for the granting of support of up to 1000 BGN. it becomes visible to the regional health insurance fund. The information on the issued LKK/TELC Protocol for the granting of the aids worth more than 1000 BGN. becomes visible only to the National Health Insurance Fund, Central Administration. In the case of an application for repair of the aids, the application will be submitted by the person or the authorised person or on site in the RHIF in paper form or by electronic means, depending on the consumer's ability. NHIF, respectively RHIF, will review the electronic protocols in a separate module. This module will generate electronic and, if necessary, print out the decisions and approvals of the committees. The approval will include details of the authorised person. Each order receives a registration number and a date of issue. The order shall include the supporting means with their numbers generated by the system, according to the nomenclatures drawn up. The issued and signed order is visible to all retailers in the territory of the country that have entered into a contract with the Cashier. Each person should be identified to the trader by reference to his identifier........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ According to the criteria set, the trader notes in the system the allocated means. Persons may receive from any trader who has entered into a contract with the RHIF without territorial restriction. After the end of a calendar month, the system will perform payment control and approval. The NHIF pays the requested funds by the trader according to the financial documents received in the accounting system or this is the business process. The necessary regulatory changes from the interdepartmental working group, which has been established, are currently being prepared. The participation of the Minister of Social Policy and our Minister of Health was very active, where with the participation of the National Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health as leading institutions and the Ministry of Health are prepared the following legal acts.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u176	Mr. Salchev, I'm sorry to interrupt you because your time is up, quite final and synthesized.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u177	30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u178	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u179	Draft Ordinance No 10 "I will not read the full name. The amendment of the Ordinance will regulate the terms and conditions of payment. Draft regulation under art. 89 of the Law on Persons with Disabilities for the Terms and Conditions of Implementation and Control of the Activities of Provision, Use and Repair of Aids. Draft decree amending the Rules of Procedure of the Law on Persons with Disabilities, Draft amendment and supplement of the Rules of Procedure of the NHIF, Draft amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Executive Agency for Medicines; Draft amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. The deadline for finalising these documents is 24 March 2022. Changes to the regulations are planned to be adopted by the end of April 2022. The negotiation procedure is planned to be completed by the end of May 2022 and on 30 June 2022 to complete all the deadlines in order to enable the National Health Insurance Fund to administer this process from 1 July. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u180	Thank you, Mr. Salchev. Colleagues, since there are two minutes left, I think that with the questions from the parliamentary groups should... Here you are, Professor Mikhailov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I do not know whether by chance or by any coincidence this issue, which is extremely neural, which is unseemly delayed, has already been heard by Professor Salchev, 12 years! That's right. It's been delayed for 12 years. [[(Replys from GERB-SDS: 11 years old! 14 years! 15 years!]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u182	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u183	Of which it is clear who is responsible for the larger period of time. But it's a very serious matter. It should not be considered at 2:15 when it will also interrupt working hours. There will be no opportunity to meet the views of colleagues who are specialists in this area, from the Health Commission, to inform the people about the problems and especially the Bulgarian citizens to understand that parliament is interested in their problems. Because that's a lot of people with really hard problems. That is why my proposal to you, in your decision, you have led the meeting, this discussion to be redirected to a time decided by you to vote from the House at the moment, and not in this way to treat a problem that is extremely Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-17.u184	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. I guess the hearing can be extended next week. At the moment, I do not see enough MPs in this House. There is no request to extend the time, possibly continue the hearing today. Colleagues, due to the expiry of the time, it is now 2:15 p.m., I am adjourned. The next meeting of the National Assembly is tomorrow, 18 March 2022, at 9.00 with parliamentary control. [[PHONE RINGING]]
