ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u1	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please register. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, I will present to you the draft programme for the National Assembly's work for the period from 13 to 15 April 2022: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. Importers: Anton Tonev and a group of MPs on 24 March 2022. Adopted at first vote on 31 March 2022. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act. Importers: Anton Tonev and a group of MPs on 24 March 2022. Adopted at first vote on 31 March 2022. 3. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers: Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act. Importers: Vladimir Tabutov and a group of MPs, 11 March 2022 5. A bill for ratification of a Letter of Offer and Admission BU-B-UCH Radio Communications Equipment (LOA) BU-B-UCH Radio Communications Equipment). Importer: Council of Ministers on 31 March 2022 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importers: Manoil Manev and a group of MPs on 9 March 2022. 7. First vote on the Bulgarian Language Bill. Importers: Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Importer: Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022. Adopted at first vote on 23 March 2022. On Thursday 14 April 2022, point 1 is replaced by the following: 9. Draft decision to take action in relation to the identified danger of becoming impossible for the Road Infrastructure Agency to carry out the activities of maintaining the Republican road network. Importers: Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs on 30 March 2022. On Thursday 14 April 2022, point 2 is replaced by the following: 10. Choice of Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. The procedure of choice shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 16 March 2022. Point 1 for Friday, 15 April 2022 11. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote on the Programme Project. Vote 149 MPs: 117, against 24, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. There are two proposals for inclusion on the agenda on the basis of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Both proposals were made by the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. The first proposal is for inclusion as a point in the Weekly Programme of the Draft Decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances related to the government's signed Memorandum for a billion dollars with Gemcorp Capital Management Ltd. and IP3 Corporation with motives thereto, No 47-254-02-34. The proposal is inadmissible on the grounds of art. 47, para. The 3th sentence of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, as the same was done on 30 March 2022 and was rejected by the Chamber, which is why it cannot be done again for one month. [[Heckling]] Shall we vote on the other proposal and then give you the floor of procedure or now? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. President, I ask that you, however, put to the vote the proposals from us Draft decision for inclusion in the daily programme. You have argued that the Rules do not allow it to be put to the vote and to be included on the agenda, but I believe that we have already proved that the Rules rather use it for some desktop book that has absolutely no meaning, and the examples are many. Now it occurred to me how last week you, at a very strange moment, even changed the way of voting, and the long-proclaimed necessary quorum in order to adopt bills and decisions. You single-handedly decided last week to change this way of voting, so I think that an argument that the Rules do not allow such a vote is not valid. Therefore, I ask you to put our request to the vote and let the House judge, and I think that at least the public needs to understand now what the government has signed, whether it is a memorandum, whether it is a letter, have they received an email?! These are all important questions to be answered by society. I therefore appeal once again to put it to the vote and let the House decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Alexander Ivanov for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner in which you are directed. Indeed, Mr. Nenkov pointed out the arguments that both the Chamber and the Bulgarian society deserve to hear. For me too, this question remained unclear, and it was evident that Prime Minister Kiril Petkov remained unclear because on Friday at our request on this issue he had no clear answer what commitment the Bulgarian state had made for a billion leva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u5	Dollars.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u6	The dollar's fixing me up from the gym. Here, I'm confused too. If the Prime Minister doesn't know, I'm confused too. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you to put this item to the vote today and let the House decide whether a billion dollars are essential, important or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u7	And thank you, but we can't put it to the vote because of art. 47, para. Three last sentence. We'll get to the bottom of this decision project, I assure you. We move on to the next request, which is the following: to hold a hearing of Foreign Minister Teodora Gencovska on a statement by Josep Borrell "the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security of the European Union, during the Council of the European Union on Foreign Affairs in Luxembourg and the statement by Analna Berbok "the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany, on the occasion of the statement of the consent of the Republic of Bulgaria to start negotiations for accession to the European Union in the first half of 2022 of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania. The request is that the point be included in the Programme for Friday 15 April, as well as the request that the hearing be held in closed session. [[Heckling]] First we'll put it to the vote, and then, if it's accepted, we'll put it to it maybe on Friday, when we get to it, whether it's closed or open. Here you go, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, thank you. My fellow Members, I think it is important and therefore it is good to put to the vote the request for such a type of hearing. Too much data and facts have accumulated lately, but of course the fact that information has leaked that contradicts the claims of the Bulgarian institutions and personally of Minister Genchovska that there is some promise that Bulgaria will open the way to the Republic of Northern Macedonia for negotiations in the European Union in the summer, this one. Secondly, the Prime Minister claims that great success has been achieved during the negotiations in the Historical Commission, which ultimately contradicts the statement of the Chairman of the Historical Commission An intergovernmental meeting is pending, as far as we know, so it is necessary to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the upcoming events with regard to the Republic of Northern Macedonia. We therefore consider it absolutely necessary for Minister Gencovska to be heard on the subject and to see how far the negotiations have reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. I put to the vote the request for inclusion in the program for Friday to include a point.. Hearing of Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska, and we will vote separately whether it is open or closed. Vote 206 MPs: 114 against 1, abstention 91. The motion is accepted. Mr. Hamid for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the House, Dear Minister! My procedure is on the agenda. I propose a shift of items on the agenda, and more precisely: item one for Friday to become item one for Thursday. My arguments, colleagues, are as follows: the favourite of all our Minister Rashkov has to answer on Friday, Mr. Chairman, to 88 questions and it is no coincidence that you have put it again. We just accepted another point for Friday, although the first one was enough to eat all the time for Friday, so you can hide all of our Minister Rashkov's favorite again. We had just considered how many more Fridays you needed, Mr. Chairman, this government, this National Assembly, so that Minister Rashkov could answer the first 80 questions of the 20 thousand we promised him and which we would submit. He accepted that he would answer all 20 grand. So, all-powerful health to give him a long time to be a minister so he can answer, because our voters are waiting for answers. And you with topics like the Bulgarian National Bank are looking to hide Minister Rashkov. So please release Friday for control. Let the Bulgarian National Bank pass as point one for Thursday, even more so for a few days I have been literally ruined because I have heard that my candidate is giving up the race, so I will not vote. [[Laughter]] So please put my proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u11	Mr. Hamid, parliamentary control doesn't change from that, no matter how many points we include. [[Heckling]] Inverse opinion of Mr. Hamid Hamid Hamid's proposal? I won't. We vote on Hamid Hamid's proposal: point 10 Vote 208 MPs: 81 against 107 abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. You're ordering a statement, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From the stand of this National Assembly, as well as in a statement by the media, the Bulgarian Socialist Party has repeatedly said that they will not allow Bulgaria to provide military assistance to Ukraine. Mrs. Cornelia Nino, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, said firmly on April 1st of this year from this tribune: The Coalition partner, BSP, will not allow the funds available to Bulgaria: legal, parliamentary, executive, will not allow Bulgaria to be involved in the war through the delivery of weapons, ammunition and goods or dual-use technologies. In February and March 2022, the European Union granted 1 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The agreed aid measures will finance the provision of equipment and auxiliary materials, such as personal protective equipment, first aid kits, as well as military equipment and platforms for the production of deadly force for defence purposes. Bulgaria is a member state of the European Union. It also participates in the European Peace Support Mechanism and has given 2 million in 2021. 581 thousand. BGN 696. For the payment of the contribution to this mechanism and for this year the state budget is provided for 3 million. 330,000. lv. Under the mechanism, some countries may refrain from participating in this funding. Bulgaria is involved in sending military assistance to Ukraine through the European Peace Support Mechanism. Despite the possibility of expressing another position and not participating in this decision, Bulgaria has not abstained, as Josep Borrell pointed out a day ago, and the High Representative for Foreign Policy and Security in the European Union: Bulgaria participates in the arming of the Ukrainian Army. The fact is that military assistance has been approved for Ukraine and Bulgaria is involved in this arming and indirectly helps to continue the military action. That is why we in the parliamentary ARG along with Mrs Cornelia Ninova ask the question: when will she resign and the Bulgarian Socialist Party leave the ruling coalition? Bulgaria has in no way stated that it does not want to participate in the military assistance that the European Union is providing to Ukraine. It is not investigated how there is a Bulgarian weapon in Ukraine, which has been repeatedly reported in the media. Although we understand that every party in the ruling coalition can have an opinion other than the general one, from the beginning of this National Assembly it is proved that in the name of power all unprincipled agreements come into force, and the opinion of the Bulgarian people, the voters, is not taken into account in the distribution of power. It is obvious that Bulgaria is providing military assistance to Ukraine through its participation in the European Peace Support Mechanism despite the opinion of the vast majority of the Bulgarian people and this is done with the consent and participation of the government. We therefore call on Mrs Cornelia Ninova to resign, as she has already declared, and BSP to leave the ruling coalition. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Mr. Gutsanov, you for procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u14	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u15	Mr. Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u16	Affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u17	For a statement, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Guncheva, you just brought out too much false information. So I ask you very much, when you come out of this tribune, to take into account the real facts. The Bulgarian Socialist Party has made it very clear that in no way will we take part in a vote concerning giving any military assistance in support of Ukraine. Cornelia Ninova, as Deputy Prime Minister, has also stated her position as Deputy Prime Minister and as Chairman of the BSP. So please don't make suggestions that are too far from the truth. BSP has been infinitely consistent in this position and will in no way change it. So from this tribune, tell only the truth and not your interpretation. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u19	Mr. Gutsanov, the procedure cannot take the character of a reply to the declaration, however. He just can't. Okay, Tsoncho Ganev for procedure and then Andrej Gurov for declaration too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u20	Mr. Chairman, at the beginning of today's session Mr. Nenkov pointed out that our Rules of Procedure of the Bulgarian Parliament are used for everything but not to be respected. We're probably keeping the desks and tables with him. This is exactly what we observe a few minutes later after this statement, which is an absolute fact. There is once again a declaration on the part of rebirth and then a month and a half ago two Mr. Vigenin, now you allow and do not interrupt the speaker to make a reply and explain and ask for an explanation for a declaration. I'm sorry. It's a statement. It's not subject to analysis, to a comment from anyone. Outside are the media who wants to say what they want to say, but right now we have a statement. I ask you very much to follow the Rules of Procedure and take away anyone's word in such a situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. I also indicated that the procedure should not have the character of a reply to the declaration. Let's hear a statement on behalf of the "Keep On Changing." Here you go, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, Dear Bulgarian citizens! In recent days we have seen an attempt to change the agenda of society. Agenda, which should include the return of justice, decent income, improving the quality of life and self-esteem of Bulgarian citizens. In the current public debate, the current opposition is trying to cover the idea of how this government came about and why people wanted the change. In recent days, we have even seen a rejection of responsible behavior and a targeted campaign aimed at ruining governance. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yes, there are many crises in Bulgaria, some inherited, other international ones. [[Laughter and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Coming out of this crisis, we have entered the energy crisis with an unreformed energy system, with heavy debt and commitments undertaken by the previous regular governance. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] There was a war in Europe. We are addressing all Bulgarian citizens to remind us why we have entered politics at all. Why did we take over? Why not give up in turbulent times when we encounter resistance and sabotage every step of our way? Because behind us are the interests of Bulgarian citizens [[(Applause from "We continue the Change", shouts: "Eee!"............................................................................................................................................]] The Bulgarian citizens who refused to be obscenely stolen, who refused to be lied to, who refused to be hostages to corrupt interests. Those who want to return from abroad, who want organized and prosperous Bulgaria, who want a future in their country. We often hear about the red lines of this one or that one, but what are the red lines of society? What expectations have Bulgarian voters put on us? Combating corruption at all levels, restarting the economy, reforming the judiciary, education and health care, modernization of the army, active role in the European Union and the Balkans. These are our red lines, too. The main red line is defending the interests of Bulgarian citizens. That's why we're determined tomorrow to shut down the Special Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] That is why we are keeping control of public funds for road maintenance. That's our taxpayers' money, us. That is why we are fighting for a decent wage for doctors and teachers to increase pensions. This is why investment in education is a priority for us, ensuring growth in the economy even in times of war in Europe. Our main focus is easing the price shock that the conflict caused. We're not gonna put up with lobbying amendments, corruption practices. [[Laughter, noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] We will never give up fighting for total transparency in the management of state funds. However, we are open to working together for Bulgaria. We are open to continue the change of the country along with everyone who believes that the well-being of Bulgarian citizens is their red line from which they will not give in. Because proper and fair spending of public funds, attracting investment, properly implementing projects set out in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan in combination with the Reform Project will change Bulgaria tangiblely, make it fairer, richer, provide it with a modern European future. This week we are taking the first big step with watching the second reading of the closure of the specialized court and prosecution, which became a symbol of the prissy state. The ruling coalition parties came to elections with this request, with this promise to the voters. A reform of the Commission for Countering Corruption, amendments to the Public Procurement Act, the Law on the Structure of the Area and other key legislative changes is followed. Achievement of a change in Bulgaria can be done only in the case of a functioning and truly independent judiciary in Bulgaria. We call on everyone to follow their consciences and make the right decision, then continue to work step by step together to achieve our common goals. The change is a national responsible formation with state-owned behaviour, committed to the Bulgarian citizens for transparency, general governance and intolerance to corruption, so we entered the policy, so Bulgarian citizens trusted us, and we will not let them down. That's us. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Declaration by the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. Thomas Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! GERB's parliamentary group SDS has proved to be the main culprit for all the melodramas that have been happening to the ruling majority in recent weeks. I suppose you truly believe that we have sabotaged twice the election of the Governor of BNB. The first time we made sure that no candidate was promoted, and the second time we made sure that you killed each other for this post. I guess it's our fault that you can't pay off construction companies for a few months now, because you don't trust each other and don't let your Minister of Regional Development sign documents. He has to go to protests against the government, which is probably our fault again. I suppose you blame us for being entangled in the position for Macedonia and there is no longer a person in Bulgaria who is aware of what the Bulgarian position is for the Republic of Northern Macedonia. There is certainly no one in the Republic of Northern Macedonia who knows what Bulgaria is thinking on this issue. And that is why, fellow Members, you can believe, because in the last six or seven months we are all aware that this is the only thing you can do to believe, but that does not mean that it is. They're illusions. You live in a world of illusions in the world where you can sit in the cabinet, smile and wish for a happy weekend. But you can't do any more than that! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And more and more people realize it. You are talking about transparency, and you have presented a recovery and sustainability plan that no one has read. No MP of ours has access to classified information, has been able to access this information that you have been hiding for five months to finally get to the situation in which Bulgaria will prove to be the largest battery site in the world. You are turning Bulgaria into a land for batteries, not a place for people to live in. This is all your responsibility. You're going back to times where you felt good. It's a normal psychological condition when a person is having a hard time remembering the good times. The good times in which you could go out and tell how badly GERB manages, how GERB is responsible for everything, how everything can be very easy to fix, how we will come smiling and in three or four months everything will become flowers and roses. Only you're already at the next moment, at the hardest moment at the moment when you can't split the pie in the first place. There were those sympathizers of yours back in the day at Rosenets who begged Mr. Dogan to give them something from the pie, too. And then he said, "Yeah, okay. Now we'll tell you, yes, well, what you said. There is no point in losing political energy in coming out of the world of facts and reality and moving into your world of illusions, fictions and fictions. This is a problem for the whole country, and it's not just your problem. You're the party and I'm addressing the Change Continue...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u25	They're not a party.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u26	...formation, I apologize, which bears the enormous responsibility for the administration of the state. You are the mandate holder and the biggest political party. You walk out of here and say: the opposition dictates the agenda of society. Well, if you find something like that, it means you say you're not doing anything. If you have allowed the opposition to set the agenda of society, it means that you are not ruling. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] By the way, lately in parliament, the agenda has nothing to do with the agenda of society. We haven't seen a single serious law in the last six months. Now you claim your incredible success that the closure of the Special Prosecutor's Office will be watched at second reading. It's just that you don't know what's going to happen later, because it's very easy to close, it's hard to find, it's hard to create, it's hard to invest time and effort in some project and finally see its results. Otherwise, it's easy to close. And there is no answer to that question. The only answer we have heard from representatives of the ruling majority is that they themselves have no guarantee of what will happen next. You came to power with a mantra like this, let's tear it down, and then we'll see what we do, it'll always be better. It's not better, guys. It's much worse. One year you haven't touched anything on the highways, and now you've got your hair on to see if you'll ever give up money for it. And the holes on the roads, be aware that there are no holes inherited. There's been a lack of road maintenance for a year because you walk and explain that it's illegal, and no one has said it's illegal what happened yet. Nobody said it was illegal! You say so. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] And now you are in a position to stand and your minister, Mr. Chenchev, to protest against you. We've come to this circus here. And that's your responsibility. The whole responsibility of the government is yours! For Parliament's agenda, it's yours! For the government's agenda, it's yours, not the opposition's! The opposition is here to point to your mistakes. She's not here to make your agenda. By the way, if you let us make the agenda for you, I'm sure there'll be a much better outcome. [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] I won't, Mr. Ananiev. Your agenda, colleagues, in the coming weeks is very difficult. First, you will have to answer the question why you are even in the government of the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u27	So you wouldn't be here!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u28	That's the answer for us not to be here, Mr. Svilensky said. That's the end of your meaning. You don't have any other meaning. Only we, colleagues, are here. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Only we're here! And you know what's next? It follows that you shouldn't be there then, because you don't make sense when we're there. Here we are, and we're not just here. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And perhaps you should understand it in order to finally begin the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian state to behave adequately at a time of very severe political challenges... both geopolitically and financially and economically. And there is hardly anyone in this room who will deny that the country and society are facing very serious trials, and at the same time we get an answer: we are here to not have GERB. Do you know how much geopolitical interest is in this sense of your existence? I'll tell you, she's not interested at all. Do you know how interested the situation in which society is located, your internal coalition dramas every Sunday, of which the news is usually that someone has started beating the other. It is three weeks, on Sunday we wait for someone to come out and say what decision has been made on the Coalition Council and three weeks the only solution, as far as we understand, is not to say what you have made as a decision of this coalition council. Because we haven't heard a briefing of the leaders to come out and say: we've drawn for next week or next month to do this, this and this. We didn't hear that. Do you know why? Because you don't have decision-making mechanisms. Six months you can't get to a point where you come up with a mechanism to make decisions on this coalition, just like any coalition does. And that is why there are no decisions, because of this there is no agenda in the National Assembly. That's why we're dealing with ratifications, which is nothing bad, and the big success is when we adopt some law that has usually been prepared for the last two or three years. So much for your leadership. What I'm about to tell you is that we won't stop you from making mistakes. But we won't be able to help you behave more adequately. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u29	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Now, before we move on to... You weren't mentioned, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u30	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bikov, I never told you not to be here. I said we're at the station so it's not you at the station. This is what hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens wanted.. Borisov's resignation and Geshev's resignation. On the basis of these demands, it is this parliamentary majority that you are not in the government. And as long as the majority is in charge, you'll be gone. You must stay away from the government, because these holes are inherited from you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u31	Mr. Svilensky, no lines to the declaration, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u32	...Mr. Bikov. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Mrs. Atanasova, don't tell me what to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u33	Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u34	There is such a procedure! And as you can see, she was executed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u35	Colleagues, no lines of declarations. For the second time in three declarations within today. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u36	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, colleagues, my procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman, is with you. You tried to interrupt Mr. Svilenski, who recognized himself during the declaration by the parliamentary group of GERB, but you took away his word for which I congratulate you. But let me make another remark to you. When there are declarations from parliamentary groups, let us let ourselves listen to each other, because many times there were voices in the Chamber, there were even full lines and sentences from colleagues. You didn't comment on them. However, it occurred to me that these are colleagues of the ruling majority. And I ask you, Mr President, to make a remark to them and to impose penalties on them according to the Rules, if necessary, because it is good for me, as an opposition MP, to hear what the government has to say about matters such as: where the fiscal reserve of the country, which is 4.5 billion, what solutions there are in the fight against inflation. Bulgarian citizens are already struggling to shop, fill their refrigerators, welcome the bright Easter holidays that are coming. For business, what compensation is there with quadruple, fivefold higher electricity prices. Let the rulers speak of such things. But when the opposition has declarations that are of a tone that respects the good tone of the parliamentary hall, make a remark to the colleagues of the ruling majority who replicate the declaration and are not able to speak on the important problems of the society and the agenda of Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. There were lines, that is, and during the declaration by Andrej Gurov there were also lines from the opposition. I call on everyone to listen whether they agree with the content of one declaration or another. Before we move on to the agenda, some messages to read to you. An application was received from Andrej Gurov regarding the nomination for a candidate for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. Informs that he withdraws his candidacy, promoted by the parliamentary group of.. We continue the Change...................................................................................... Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of: I. Art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its own orders it has authorised the dispatch and use of aircraft with their crews from the members of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria to Slovenia and back to the Republic of Poland and vice versa. In implementation of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the competent state authorities have been notified. II. Art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has, by its own orders, authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria and the landing on the territory of the country of the non-military nature of: a military plane with crew of the Swiss Air Force, and a plane with crew from the Air Force of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The orders issued are within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the passage, in order to protect the country. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, permissions to fly over the country's airspace should be granted to the countries concerned after positive opinions from the competent authorities in these areas. The Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notifications were received on 8 and 11 April 2022, respectively by ICs. No 47-203-09-32, 33, 34 and 35, and provided to the Defence Committee. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received a Report on the implementation of the programming budget on 31 December 2021 by the Ministry of Health. The report shall be made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Health. On 8 April 2022, the National Assembly was provided with a draft and adopted by the Economic and Social Council an opinion on the topic of "Territorial plans for a fair transition." Targets, challenges and expected effect. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was submitted to the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on European Union Affairs, the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on: "Stopanska conjuncture in March 2022"; "Index at domestic and international producer prices in the industry "February 2022"; "Key indicators in Bulgaria" "The latest data as of 4 April 2022; "Index of turnover in the Section of Retail Trade", excluding the trade in motor vehicles and motorcycles in February 2022, "Index of industrial production in February 2022, "Index of construction production in February 2022, "Index of construction production in February 2022." We move on to item one of the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR HEALTH DISCLOSURE. Before I give the floor to Professor Tonev for the report, please come in for a procedure. Isn't it about procedure, Mr. Gadget? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! My procedure is for the messages you read earlier. I also expected you to add another message under the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of allied and foreign armed forces. What's this about? During the weekend, six cargo planes of the Chinese People's Liberation Army are allowed to fly through the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. According to the Chinese authorities, these planes are loaded with military equipment, namely Air Force Systems for Serbia. According to Serbian authorities, military equipment has been loaded with air service systems for Serbia, where there is nothing wrong with the Serbian state has purchased an air service from China. The interesting thing is that according to the Bulgarian side these planes are loaded with cranes and ambulances! There is obviously some kind of discrepancy, since according to suppliers and recipients it is about military equipment, and according to the Bulgarian country that has authorised the passage through the territory of Bulgaria, it is about cranes! Somehow someone didn't do their job. I appeal to you with a request, Mr President, to check what this is about, because this rather resembles circumvention of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of allied and foreign armed forces, when such a flight must be authorised in a special order and this flight should be reported here to the National Assembly accordingly. Something that didn't happen and it didn't happen obviously by what you reported under this law a little earlier. The second thing I would like to draw your attention to is not to waste any more time on a topic that I have been asking you for the third week. And this is about handling parliamentary control issues. You know, last Friday and last Friday I've already dealt with you with a question about pro-Russian agents in the National Assembly, which since March 8 is in the process of processing. The subject is at least important to me. I hope you have an answer, since I have been asking you for two weeks now what this is about and why this question has not yet been processed, because somehow we will get the impression that the importer has done a little bit to the Minister of Culture and has brought in some kind of genius question that you haven't been able to understand it for a month! So I hope you can fix at least on the site so everyone else can get to know the question, because the subject is important, and really tell us what's going on with these flights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u39	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I received word that last week I read a message about these flights. We'll take a look at the transcripts from last week's meetings. I don't remember, frankly, that's why I'm saying we're going to look at the transcripts. As for the other, I will check after the meeting. You can also remind me outside of the meeting. Thank you. Docent Tonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u40	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! I will first ask for a procedure on the grounds of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be admitted to the Chamber under paragraph 1. 1 et c. 2 on the agenda Assoc.Professor Vasil Pandov Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, and Mrs. Zheny Nacheva Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u41	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Dear colleagues, I am voting in the Chamber of the persons mentioned by Anton Tonev. Vote 119 MPs: 116 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall Mr. Pandov and Mrs. Nacheva. Here you are, Professor Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Report for a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, No 47-254-01-30, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev and a group of MPs on 24 March 2022, adopted in the first vote on 31 March 2022. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Health Insurance Act (prom., SG No. ...).................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. According to § 2 there is a proposal of the National Representative Anton Tonev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 3 after the word "Regionist" "Humanitarian status" is added; (b) To be created t. 3a: 3a. under art. 33, para. 1, t. 4a from the date laid down in the decree of the Council of Ministers under art. 40, para. 10;." 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 2 after the word "Regionist" "Humanitarian status" is added; (b) To be created t. 2a: It's 2a. for the persons referred to in art. 33, para. 1, t. 4a from the date laid down in the decree of the Council of Ministers under art. 40, para. 10;." 3. A new para is being created. 3: . (3) the persons with temporary protection under art. 1a, para. 3 of the Asylum and Refugees Act are entitled to medical and medical services under this law and under the Health Act under the conditions and by the order of the Bulgarian citizens, except for medical care provided in accordance with the rules for coordination of social security systems. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u43	Thank you, Professor Tonev. I am opening a discussion on the name of the Bill and paragraphs 1 and 2 presented by the President of the Committee on Health. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Radomir Cholakov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on the title, of course, I will not take any attitude, but I would like to take an attitude in § 2, Article 2. 34, new para. 3. Correct me if I am mistaken, but is this not the text with which for those who have requested temporary protection full health rights are introduced as for Bulgarian citizens provided? This, fellow Members, I think we discussed it once during the first reading of the Bill and we said that an injustice was created here. In our desire to be very humane, we are in fact violating basic principles of health insurance and citizens' status. Directive No 55 of the European Union of 2001 explicitly states that persons benefiting from temporary protection must be provided with health insurance as for uninsured persons, i.e. in the most urgent, emergency situations. Isn't that right? What specifically requires in this case for those benefiting from temporary protection at the moment, the Bulgarian State to provide full health insurance after this de facto are uninsured persons?! Objectively, of course, they have no contribution to the health system and there is no way they could have. But where does the health system take these funds to provide these individuals and provide them with health services completely as for health-secure Bulgarian citizens? And we put you at the first reading, fellow Members, the question: why do you not consider the rights to be enjoyed by the beneficiaries of temporary protection in their system? Why hasn't a legal proposition been introduced that governs their right to work yet? Because, colleagues, health insurance is the result of labor and a contribution to this society. Why didn't we start with the work to allow these people to be useful and contribute to the national economy, then they, offering to the national economy, of course, that they would have both insurance and health rights full, like all Bulgarian citizens, but we start back by giving them rights to health insurance that they objectively cannot have because it is not fair and it is wrong? I can't support this bill because it's not fair, it's wrong, it's not logical. This is not a systematic approach, it does not solve the problem with refugees from Ukraine, it does not solve the issues with their integration into Bulgarian society, but it just gives some extra, again, taken out of the context taken out of the system, just because the Ministry of Health first wrote such a bill and introduced it, and we now have to look at it. This, by the way, is evidence very little, but it is still proof that the ruling majority has no plan, there is no system, and there are some ideas that you give now, we have a thought here regarding the refugees from Ukraine. The Department of Health had an idea, so let's do it, because there's nothing better that we could think of. You can't run a country like this, fellow Members, you can't regulate processes like this! Please don't, you won't withdraw it, of course you will vote it out. You don't have a system. And I'm telling you again what's being done here with al. 3, it is not fair to all Bulgarian citizens who have provided themselves because they have worked hard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u45	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Hassan Ademov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Mr. Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, Mrs. Nacheva! Dear Mr. Cholakov, I agree with you that Directive No 55 of 2001, which was activated on 4 March by the Council of Europe, on the basis of which an activated directive, the Council of Ministers adopted a decision on the basis of which this draft was proposed in practice. This Directive establishes minimum standards for support. That we have decided all the rights that Bulgarian citizens have of health insurance to provide them to the refugees of the war, I do not think it is a big problem. There's another important moment here. What you are saying is extremely important because it is about the labour rights of these citizens. Because basically insurance contributions are on income. Some kind of income. Soon it will be about who determines this income and how this work is done. It is explicitly stated in the Bill that Ukrainian citizens, who are otherwise provided, are excluded from this bill. In other words, this bill provides for health insurance rights only and only those who do not work have not yet found work in the labour market. In other words, the two policies, of course, have to go parallel, but unfortunately one policy is lagging behind, and you are right in this regard. However, what I wanted to tell you is that this bill practically regulates the rights of those who are not otherwise provided.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u47	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. The second line is for Elena Guncheva. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u48	Colleague Cholakov, although I kind of agree with you, you missed a few important things. Although the government would very much like to show good intentions to settle matters related to refugees from Ukraine, this is their desire to undermine the legislation. The bills are tabled thoughtlessly, between first and second reading proposals are made that completely replace the bills, and as it turned out yesterday in the Health Commission, oral proposals are made on the spot, which have nothing to do with the initially submitted bills. Although it is a good wish of those in charge, I urge them a little more to refine the texts they offer us, all the more so that these texts that are being proposed are entirely discriminatory and relate only to the refugees from Ukraine. Although this is not stated in the Law, it is these refugees that are mentioned in the motives and the impact assessment of each second word. It also becomes unclear from this bill where the financing of these health insurances comes from. Something I think is a vice. I also believe that the Health Commission report is incomplete because it does not reflect at all the discussions that were held yesterday in the Commission, where the Commission has again been convened overtime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Docent Tonev, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u50	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! Mr. Cholakov, some of your comments are on the ground. As all lawyers in this room know, any law can be improved, improved in time until it gets anywhere near perfection. My address to you and to the entire House at times of crisis the proposed measures in order to give maximum effect must be timely. Another comment I would like to return to you is that we are talking about a specific diaspora, which we have data that most of the refugees who have passed through our territory from a military conflict in Ukraine, of course, do not share them by nationalist, represent mainly women and children. Children who need adaptation to our education system, and this should be safe for our own children and young women who would hardly be the first candidates to work, provided they have one or more children to take care of. In view of our bill, in a very broad sense, many vices can be mentioned, but given the specific crisis situation and given what problems we will face if these refugees remain in our territory longer, we believe that the changes we have proposed will be solutions to these possible problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u51	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Mr. Cholakov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the lines of Dr. Ademov and Mrs. Guncheva. Mr. Tonev, in the law of hell, we cannot work with good intentions in a particular case and say that because in this case we want to be very humane, to violate the logic and principles of legislation and in general the principles of regulation of public systems. I would like to use, by the way, because the Minister of Health is here, to turn to her and ask her: does she find it fair and right for temporary beneficiaries to whom the European directive has really given the minimum standard, and she knows why she has given the minimum standard, because in the West they really think systematically, and they know that in order to get full health rights, you have to contribute to society. So, you go into the country, you get the minimum, you get invited to the labour market, and that's where the whole system starts to go. Colleagues, I conclude with this: we have made a proposal for the Group of GERB-SDSS to amend and supplement the Law on Asylum and Refugees, in which we have given you the system approach. The place where legal amendments were to be made is called the Law on Asylum and Refugees, because it is the special law on common and through this special law, labour rights, health rights, educational rights and all other rights must be regulated at the same time. [[Heckling]] That's what we think. No, no, it is said that from there the amendments to the other laws should have been made in the Transitional Regulations, not other laws................... what is currently happening in the Law on Asylum and Refugees. [[Relations from the National Representative Venko Sabrutev.]] We heard you. We heard you! It's our fault. Only you're in the bataka. Right now, the refugee situation is batak, my boy. Batak! You can't deal with him. [[Noise and lines.]] And this law does not solve any problem, it simply creates another problem and that it destroys social justice in Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u53	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chairman, I think it is not right to tolerate such behaviour by the unspeakable colleague who is speaking to my boy here. There are no boys of yours here. There are MPs here with equal rights. Absolutely all of them. So please need a remark about such behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. You're really right. Mr. Cholakov, I believe you understand that. Colleagues, we are going to vote on the name of the Bill as well as on § 1, which is an importer, and § 2, which is in the version of the Commission. They voted 122 MPs: 97 against 9, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Professor Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to § 3 there is a proposal of the National Representative Anton Tonev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 5 words as well as persons with double Bulgarian and foreign citizenship, which are not provided by the order of this law. 2. A new para is being created. 6: The persons with double Bulgarian and foreign citizenship, which are not provided under this law, shall pay the value of their medical care unless: 1. for them an international treaty is in force, to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country, or 2. arrive from a country to the foreigners from which temporary protection has been granted. 3. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7. Under § 4 there is a proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in paragraph 4: In the new al. 10: - What do you mean? 1 after the words................................................................................................... 40a, para. 4a (a) 4a (b) 4a (b) 4a (c) 4a (c) 4a (c) 4a (d) 4a (c) 4a (d) 4a (d) 4a (d) 4a - What do you mean? 2 after the word "Venski" the words " is determined by the duration of the temporary protection." - What do you mean? 3 after the word "instructions', the words "from the date of initiation of proceedings for granting temporary protection status' shall be added. - What do you mean? 4 after the word "persons" the words "from the date of initiation of proceedings for granting temporary protection status" shall be added. - What do you mean? 5 the words "up to the 25th of the month following the month to which they relate" shall be inserted after the word "Venski." - What do you mean? 6 after the word "supplied', the words "State budget' shall be added at the expense of the restructuring of expenditure'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Anton Tonev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall in that regard include: 2, in the text before t. 1 the word "act" is replaced by "order."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u57	Let's stop by §4. Is the Commission supporting it or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u58	The Commission supports the proposal of the MP Anton Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u59	Then for the entire § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u60	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall in that regard include: 2, in the text before t. 1 the word "act" is replaced by "order."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u61	Thank you, Professor Tonev. I'm opening a discussion on the so-read two paragraphs. Here you are, Dr. Ademov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Nacheva, Mr. Pandov! The proposal we are making in this paragraph is related to the application of the government that they will restore parliamentaryism, that parliament will be the one to decide everything, not to delegate rights to the Council of Ministers on the old model of the famous SUV. What you are proposing is by decree of the Council of Ministers to determine several parameters. In a moment, I'm going to read them to you to find out how absurd this proposal is. First of all, you propose that the decree of the Council of Ministers determine the income on which they will be provided. By regulation, we determine income. Colleagues, read the Health Insurance Act. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40 is written on what income are the individual groups of Bulgarian citizens, including those we are talking about at the moment. A short time ago, a pre-election speech was read by the chairman of the parliamentary group. An election platform that said that there were red lines that would not be overcome. One of these red lines is to have transparency. Where is this transparency when we entrust the Council of Ministers with a decree to determine the income on which we will... Well the Council of Ministers can determine income on 100 BGN, on 1.00 BGN. That is why we have proposed, in accordance with current legislation, that income be determined. In accordance with art. 40. Next, you say that in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance it is said that in art. 19 of the Public Finance Act, which provides for an increase in expenditure on state budgets, the National Health Insurance Fund, the State Social Security, cannot be adopted without changes to the relevant laws, or if adopted, must be adopted from the beginning of the next budget year. Now, can anyone tell me how much money and where is the source of funding for this activity? We order the Council of Ministers to decide again by decree and there is a clear text in the Public Finance Act. Next, you say that in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance is explicitly asked for an opinion on the proposed proposal. You say that in art. 109, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act, the Council of Ministers may approve additional transfers and expenditure on budgets of senior authorising officers, i.e. the Council of Ministers may also make transfers to the chief authorising officers, may make transfers to another budget, as is the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, but this transfer must be reflected in the budget of the Casa, and such coverage does not exist. Here are the big questions to which we are looking for an answer in our proposal. And now, look, the most interesting point is t. 6: The source of funding has written the importers of this bill. What does that mean? Professor Angelov here tells me this is absurd. "Source of funding" - what is this source of funding? Doesn't the National Assembly want to know where this money will be transferred from? Where, from what other activities, as Assen Vassilev says? Shouldn't we take some activities and give them to others? Where's that money coming from? What do you want now? Putting a wet stamp on a proposal that doesn't tell us anything, tells us a source of funding?! We have offered a source of funding.. the state budget. There are now various instruments in the Public Finance Act. One instrument is cost restructuring, we have used this tool. There is another possibility, of course, intra-compensated changes. There are all kinds of options we've used this option. If you do not like this option, which option will this transfer take place? That question is the most important question. The source of funding is not clear. If it's going to be 100 million, if it's going to be 10 million, if it's going to be 20 million. I want someone to come out and say how they will be given to the National Health Insurance Fund. And look, the decree has to be published, it has to be adopted within one month. You know very well that regulations are also subject to public consultation under the Law on Legislative Acts. Come on, one more month. Well these foreigners, these Ukrainians fleeing the war, may not be in Bulgaria then. We'll accept a decree. Next, honourable Members, I want one of the importers to come out and say here from this tribune in the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act there is one text that says that for unforeseen and urgent expenditure 174 million are envisaged. I want one of the importers to promise that you will not touch these funds for expenses for Ukrainian refugees.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u63	They can't touch them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u64	I know they can't touch them, but I want someone to come out and say that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u65	Your time, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u66	Honourable Members, we cannot, in this discussion, which relates to the possibility of improving the proposed project, be accused of being opposed to solving the problem of health insurance for refugees from Ukraine. There's no such thing! There is no such person in this room or if there is, there are few, from a particular parliamentary group that do not agree in time, just now associate Tonev said that it is extremely important that this support be timely. In due time, but a decree by the Council of Ministers will take one month of public discussion, one month! How timely, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u67	Mr. Ademov, one minute longer than your time. Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, for the warning, but I want to hear the answer to these questions, because otherwise there is no way to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u69	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. For line Kostadin Angelov, then Anton Tonev and Associate Professor Chakarov for the three. Here you go, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! Dr. Ademov, since yesterday we also read this text and are not aware of the things written in the proposal of colleagues for a change in the Health Insurance Act. We will abstain from these changes and support the clarity that you give in the proposal for changes, but you ask questions and seek answers. There's no place for the money to come from. Clearly, there is nowhere for the money to come from, and here we are trying with many words, written points one after another, paragraphs, paragraphs, to cover the situation, so that we do not tell these people that there is no money. The truth is that the only chance money can come from is if the Ministry of Finance reaches into the inviolable reserve, takes from the Silver Fund, because it is the only one left untapped, or from the two nuclear funds that are in the inviolable reserve. So, the ruling gentlemen, in addition to the fiscal reserve, you melted it to zero, you still have to reach into the Silver Fund and finance Ukrainian refugees. We're here for their funding. We're here for a clear funding technology. We are for a hand lodged, but a long time has been slept away, and if you're telling me that this law is now timely. No, it's not timely. In addition to making some general changes that contradict European directives, the law does not answer the basic question: who will pay this money, where will this money come from, how will they get to the Casa, what is the order for these Ukrainians to use health insurance rights in personal doctors and so on? Much more questions.. Zero answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u71	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Docent Tonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister! Dr. Ademov, we are very responsible for your proposals and, above all, constructively, with which there is an opportunity to improve the conditions with which we are trying to amend the Law, but we cannot fail to note the certain dose of political speaking that is taking place in this regard. None of the opposition mentions that, in fact, this law does not propose a change and the creation of new absolute rights for these refugees, but it is a temporary aid for people who, entering our country, in the first few months must feel that they have been adopted by us, and on the basis of this improvement of their status, related to health care, because only the health assistance they can receive is discussed in this law. In this way, we provide a real security area for them, and the timely health care they can receive is one of those conditions. With regard to the most important issue, and it is indeed a serious question about where funding will come from. As we have all been informed, the European Union is setting up a compensation fund for the countries on line one. This fund will probably give more details of what additional finances we can count on in a few days or weeks. Until then, we are giving the Council of Ministers an opportunity, which we really have to wait two months in the worst situation, but in the opposite direction the minimum period available to the Council of Ministers for the entry into force of its regulations is 14 days and you know this thing well. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So there are opportunities for improvement, but this is our proposal with which we believe that we are proposing solutions, and it is timely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u73	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Professor Chakarov, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Dr. Ademov, you basically raise the issue of the source of funding in view of the insurance contributions to be paid in this case. Clearly, we all want to help this process happen. It was a proper and normal practice for the legislation to have a clear financial justification and to mention it, but unfortunately, this has not been done and we really need to get an answer and be correct to all who are based on a solidarity principle in the insurance process. But I would also like to draw your attention to something else, pointing out in advance that the scope here is much wider, much more serious. In this case, it is clear where they might come from, but we will see afterwards, however, the subjectivity of the state remains. Do you think that it is correct in terms of insurance contributions for those persons who are currently not appropriate to list all and import the maximum amount? In this case, shouldn't there still be some size that indicates what it will be like for everyone else? Will the State in this case carry out its commitment as it should, as it is written down, what is relevant to business, to individuals who are self-insuring? There must be correctness, there must be equality. How do you feel about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u75	Thank you, Professor Chakarov. Do you want a hole, Dr. Ademov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u76	Thank you, fellow Members, for your lines. These lines give me the opportunity to remind that the state is not the most correct paying agent in terms of health insurance. Why am I saying this? Because the numbers are showing a whole other thing. 4 million. 200,000. Bulgarian citizens who provide them with the state, the transfer to the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is 2 billion. 43 million. The remaining up to six and several, up to seven million, I'm talking about insured, the remaining about three million and several thousand insured according to national statistics pay the remaining four billion up to the six billion budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. Well, then how do we assign this country, which makes these contributions to health insurance, to solve the issue of income, the question of where should the funds be from? Dear Mr. Tonev, look, now you are talking about temporary aid, but this temporary aid, now the war is on 24 February, two months will pass until the Council of Ministers comes up with this decree, we will be looking for European funding that will come in six months or a year, at which time the medical institutions will accumulate debts. Or are you on the principle that any line that is not parallel to the straight line is the wrong line?! We're not North Korea, dear colleagues! Take a look at the opposition's proposals. The sense of self-sufficientness always plays a bad role for any government! We're talking about something that's quite simple. Tell me, where will this money come from? The most important question? They will come from European funding. Well, write it down in some way, if you want, and we'll give you a text. Why, why, why do we accept such a text that says: Who is this source of funding? Say it clearly. Get out of this tribune from which feather we will take: is the Ministry of Transport because Mr. Ananiev is smiling, or will we get from another ministry? Tell me where we're gonna get this money so we can give it to the refugees here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u77	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Elena Guncheva to speak. You have the floor, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 3 is indicated that the following persons are provided at the expense of the state budget. We include those with temporary protection in this particular group: persons who are provided by the state budget. I fully share Dr. Ademov's opinion that the exact source of funding should be known. The state budget has already been voted on and the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. Where's that money coming from? Moreover, this is not a temporary condition. Currently it is said that there are about 70 thousand in Bulgaria. refugees from Ukraine, only the war continues, they can become 100,000, 200, 300 thousand. Currently, there are about 4 million refugees from Ukraine in the European Union, according to media data. What are we doing? To what extent will the state budget be charged and where will these funds really come from? I would like to put another aspect, ladies and gentlemen of the government, when was the last time you spoke to your constituents? Do you know how the Bulgarian citizens react to the fact that a special group of certain ethnicities is currently being granted rights that the Bulgarian citizens do not even have. These refugees do not distinguish themselves, who can afford to pay their health insurance, from those who really do not have such opportunities. It is a notary fact that there are many refugees in Bulgaria, at which their standard of living is definitely much higher than that of ordinary Bulgarian citizens. Hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians are without health insurance, hundreds of thousands are paying for the treatment, many people cannot afford even treatment because they have no money, although they are health insurance. Many children cannot afford their parents to operate and treat them abroad because there is no money, and we are currently seeing how the state finds money for others. I don't mind helping refugees, but those who really can't afford to pay for health insurance. And again, where will this money be taken? Is there any movement, how many of these people, how much money will be needed even within this year? How much money will the budget spend? How much money will the Health Insurance Fund have to pay, which is supported by the insurance contributions of all of us? These are issues that have no solution in this bill that we are being offered. The other, which is, this decree, which envisions the government to make its own decision on how to determine health insurance contributions, on what income, on what funding, reminds a practice which you of the ruling coalition had said would already be forgotten. A government decree cannot transfer funds to the state budget and make similar costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Are there any lines, coworkers? Honest Mitev and then Professor Baltov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Guncheva, you say you do not know how long these people will be in Bulgaria. Yeah, well, you don't know, but I don't know if you know that of these 65% of them are mothers with children, Mrs. Guncheva, these aren't other people, these are mothers with children. 65% of these people have stated a desire to start working and if possible to become permanently employed in Bulgaria. When this happens, these 26 BGN, which have to pay the state on a monthly basis, will be taken from their labor establishment. So let's not forget what's important, Mrs. Guncheva, and it's not a question of who has money and who isn't. These are very different questions. The point is that these are mothers with children to whom the state gives 26 leva. a month to have adequate health care, and that, Mrs. Guncheva, is not for all who are present, but for all who make a volition, which suggests that the people who can pay will not make such a volition. If you have a suggestion on how to sift out the people who can pay, from the people who can't pay, come on in, do it. This is only for people who make a volition, and remember that these are mothers with children fleeing the war, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u81	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Here you are, Professor Baltov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! In the words of the replicator before me, Mrs. Guncheva, I understand that about 22 million will take a year for 70,000 refugees. However, these 22 million cannot under any circumstances cover what will be necessary to ensure the health and treatment of these refugees. In fact, 22 million will import the state, but what the National Health Insurance Fund will have to give, with which it will have to pay back, will be many times more. And we really don't know where that money's gonna come from. There is no telling how or where this money will come from, how this treatment will be paid. If they won't come from the National Health Insurance Fund reserve, shouldn't there be an additional amount in any way and the budget be changed to the National Health Insurance Fund so that we really know how much we really bet as such an additional fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u83	Thank you, Mr. Baltov. Is there a third line, colleagues? I can't see. A hole? You have the floor, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u84	Mr. Mitev, we've all become emotional, I just don't understand why you think women and mothers can earn less than men. For me, it's pure discrimination. The fact that someone comes here, whether it's a man or a woman, doesn't at all lead to the conclusion of what means to experience, does it? What I also want to ask you is, how do you know how many women with children have entered Bulgaria? During the hearing of the Chairman of the Agency for Refugees it became clear that these refugees entering Bulgaria do not have a profile. How do you determine how many mothers with children there are? How many of them have asked to work? In what way did you even comment on this? I would like to remind you that you, as governors, should make proposals on how to deal with this situation. We from the opposition, of course, will help you if you can't handle it, and as you can see, you have no intention of offering anything that is working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u85	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, would you like to change groups now? Here you go. Mr. Mitev, do you want me to sign you up? I'm recording you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Naturally, the question that many colleagues put to Mr. Tonev's proposal is pointed out where the money will come from. Firstly, I would like to congratulate Mr. Tonev's initiative to introduce such an amendment to the Health Insurance Act. Better late than never. Once again, I would like to emphasise the serious issue of the funds to be provided for in securing this bill. There was an raising of the question: these funds from the Casa Reserve will come from the contributions of the Bulgarian citizens to health insurance, or a source of European funding will be sought, which I think is the most resonant to be done. Because, colleagues, honourable Mr. Tonev, by adopting a bill for a noble purpose, we should not allow ourselves, however, to violate the Law on Public Finance and, naturally, to amend the Act on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund through a decree of the Council of Ministers. Here some colleagues have allowed themselves to abuse the rhetoric a little, because in previous governments, I do not dare to specify only during the management of GERB, and even before that we have not observed, at least I am not aware and do not recall, by a decree of the Council of Ministers to exceed the maximum expenditure of any budget voted by the plenary in the National Assembly. If there are reservations saved on some items in the budget, transfers by decree of the Council of Ministers are possible. And the legislator has given such an opportunity. However, to exceed the cost of, notice, the budgets voted on and adopted in plenary were not allowed. And I don't think we should introduce such a practice, it's not good. [[Replications by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] If there is to be, it helps my room, Mr. Ademov, just like that, such a transfer, which must be made, to exceed the maximum permissible part of the expenditure part of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, must be made by the Chamber with a change in the law. You will all say this is a slow process, but I think this is a process in which plenary can be united. When we have an idea to help people, especially running away from war, we have to be people above all else. But with this proposal, Mr. Tonev, I cannot agree with that. Perhaps you should have found a better solution and recorded in this law really where funding would come from. Because we should not divide people into Bulgarian and foreign citizens. After all, we are Bulgarian MPs. There is an interest in protecting Bulgarian health insurance in the budget voted to ensure the health insurance of Bulgarian citizens. Naturally, when there is a need to help war-running people, to use the resources and opportunities that European funding offers. I hope to make rapid progress in finding these funds, but thus the proposal, which is, to transfer such funds by decree of the Council of Ministers, seems dangerous to me. Without insulting anyone, we observe all Bulgarian citizens, and those who monitor the budget of the state and the state of our fiscal reserve, indeed reaching and melting a hygienic minimum, that is, we threaten the financial stability of the state with other decisions of the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers. And empowering them with this type of decision to directly influence the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, a box of Pandora opens for me. Above all, dealing with the crisis by the Council of Ministers has not shown any good results so far. The example is Durankulak. If you go there, you can see that refugees are in distress. Running away from war, they face a bad organization on the Bulgarian border, I regret to say it. I'm saying this with great regret, colleagues. We are trying to help, and we may actually refuse quite a large part of the citizens who are seeking salvation with us, whether temporarily, whether permanently. Rather, we show ourselves as bad owners and rulers by the organization, which has not been created at the moment. Therefore, I will personally abstain on this proposal of yours and call on these 174 million, who are in the Reserve of the Casa, not to give the Council of Ministers the opportunity to dispose of them and to stay for the health care of the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u87	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For a line, Associate Professor Tonev, then Iskren Mitev and Ms. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues from GERB! Indeed, I have listened with interest to your speech and will refrain from commenting on this in the last two years in times of crisis previous representatives of the executive power with what power to allocate funds they had. However, I will support you that in times of crisis and dynamics, a quick and timely solution is sometimes the right one, which can then be corrected by both the executive and the legislative authority itself, if necessary. The structure of fiscal 2022 also suggests that even such legislative adjustments should be made several months after the first decree of the Council of Ministers came into force. We have many unknowns in the equation how many Ukrainian refugees and not only Ukrainian refugees, but how many refugees will want temporary protection status. We want to have dynamics in what costs we are going to put into the cost of 26 BGN, as Mr. Mitev mentioned, is the minimum possible, we want to see what part of them will really decide to use our health system and all these unknowns suggest that we can dynamically offer solutions to cover these costs. We have two control mechanisms - one is a budget update, the other is the Pact for the recovery of the funds spent by the countries on the front line, so we are calm, we will not... Thank you for your comments showing us the possible weaknesses, but we believe that with this bill we have enough protective mechanisms not to get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u89	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Mrs. Nikolova, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you are very right, Mr. Ivanov, that this bill also needs to include information on European funding, because on 31 March the European Commission came up with a deliberate decision regarding the funding opportunities for refugees from Ukraine with one resource of over 3 billion. And 400 million. EUR, which will be possible to access all Member States with a view to ensuring both refugee accommodation and access to the health, insurance system of each Member State and including the education system. In this direction, my question is also to Mrs. Serbenova: how will possible available funds be used for Bulgaria, how this will be reflected, including in this bill, in terms of financing the health insurance system and, of course, what is the resource that is determined for Bulgaria under this mechanism, because it is by these means that we can cover the needs at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Honest Mitev for the third line. Here you are, Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, when this decision was prepared, we have not actually done anything new and unheard of. I would like to remind you of a case of 2020, when your management directs funds in a similar way. At that time the funds were to stimulate the employees of the NHIF working under the conditions of the Code. This is on the grounds of art. 109, para. 3 of the State Budget Act, transfers to the NHIF are approved for the activities for the management of the pandemic. Mr. Ivanov, do you think that when this happened 2020, you had good arguments to do it, and today when we have to give 26 levs. Of mothers with children coming from a country where bombs fall on their heads, that's not a good solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u93	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Ivanov, would you like a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u94	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members in this House, honourable gentlemen and ladies replicating! Thank you for your lines. To Mr. Tonev. Mr. Tonev, thank you for joining the debate by giving me a line. Just to illustrate to you how far the state is currently able to cope with refugees from Ukraine in digital terms, which is very telling to me........................................................................................... For the other 60 thousand, however, [[SIGHS]] 18, fix me, okay, that doesn't have half of that 70 grand. The others, my colleague Tonev, are left at the mercy of our government and are supported by noble people volunteers and, on the other hand, are of municipal budgets. In other words, the additional costs that municipalities make to cope, serve and support these refugees. So let's leave their beating in the face of the state. Again, 70 thousand 18 cares about the state only for them, so in my opinion there is no capacity to do so for the moment or at least does not show such readiness the Council of Ministers. To Mr. Mitev, I remember that decision, and I remember who suggested it. The man who suggested it is in the back room. With my greatest respect, Mrs. Nacheva was also involved in this decision at the time. Then, for Bulgarian doctors with two hands, I voted for, naturally, and such an opportunity to be found. It was then in the Emergency Act and was voted by this House, so you do not make a good comparison in whether a decision has been taken by the Council of Ministers or a decision has been made by the majority in this Chamber. Ms. Nikolova, thank you for the line. I will join your line to address as a question to Minister Serbenova. I thank Minister Serbenova that he is in the hall.. can really give us more information on what funding can be negotiated by Bulgaria from the allocated funds from Europe, which are for assistance, including for the healthcare services of refugees who are fleeing the war in Ukraine. This is an important issue, and perhaps in this way, Mrs. Nikolova, we will help the government to really refine and not bring them into violation of the Public Finance Act, to write in this law and to Mr. Mitev also to turn, to do it in the most transparent way and not to jeopardise the financial stability of the state, because, agree, in this way, which is proposed, a door is opened. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. To make a statement, Iskren Mitev. Here you are, Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! What really matters in this proposal is who gets these funds? And I say again, to us, these are mothers with children in their great numbers who flee from the war in Ukraine, who flee from their ruined homes, from their burning houses, and have left their families, their household, their husbands to the fate of major policies. These are people who want to work in Bulgaria if we give them this opportunity. These are, on the other hand, people who care about their country and want to get back there as quickly as possible, and hope, as we all hope, that this war will end and have the opportunity to return. Where's the money coming from? We understand your concerns, and therefore, of course, we will try to clarify. The text we offer allows for different ways of financing and one of them is art. 110 of the State Budget Act, which states clearly: The Council of Ministers may approve additional costs and transfers and/or increase the indicators of the Public Finance Act at the expense of savings, costs and/or transfers to the budgets of other authorising officers. Another very important thing we have to say is that when for all people who make a volition to receive this support, not all of them automatically, but only those who do a volition, they become equal to the Bulgarian citizens in their status to the NHIF, from which the principle of solidarity comes immediately and the wheel turns. This is a mechanism which, in itself, I repeat, is to help mothers with children fleeing the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u97	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Here's a line for you, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Mitev, outside the emotional part of your speech, my remark is regarding the text of the State Budget Act that you quoted. You quoted it correctly and it is about transfers between senior authorising officers, only that the National Health Insurance Fund is not at all a primary authorising officer, but there is a separate budget that says: a budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, which is part of the consolidated fiscal programme. How is the state budget going to transfer money to the National Health Insurance Fund without amending the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act?! Since it is not foreseen anywhere in these texts that the Law on the Budget of the Cashier is changing, there is no way to believe this claim that there will be a transfer from... It can be transferred to the budget of the Ministry of Health and hence the Ministry of Health can transfer to the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. This is what the article you quoted said in the State Budget Act. It is extremely important that we put the issue again about the source of funding. The source of funding we say with this proposal that it is not clear. The decree of the Council of Ministers will determine who is the source of funding, who is the income on which they should be provided. Dear colleagues from the Left, your leader here, from the National Assembly stands, when he heard of a decree of the Council of Ministers, he jumped like a sting. Now you support a decree of the Council of Ministers to solve problems related to spending public resources. When are you being honest? When you're in opposition, or when you're in government for a while?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Guys, are there any other lines? I can't see. For the back, Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ademov, how long we will be in the station is not so important, I think it is important what we will do during this time, Mr. Ademov. I think we should all agree that not the length of time, but the quality of work is what is important. On the other hand, I have taken the trouble of checking, and I can tell you that the quadruple coalition from the time it manages has introduced more bills and adopted more bills and legislative activity in the National Assembly than the previous two active governments. I'm telling you this because you're saying, for a while, I wanted to replicate you for a little bit. As I said, the state pays the contributions and these persons become part of the solidarity model, which does not violate the principle of work of the Casa, Mr. Ademov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u101	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Professor Mihailov for speech. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Serbenova, honourable colleagues! It is produced a replica of yesterday's Commission here in the Chamber. And yesterday there was, only there was the esteemed Professor Angelov yesterday, I hope today will... He hasn't taken to the question yet, but he'll probably wait... [[Reply.]] Yes, yes, I miss you, of course, I miss you. Mr. Ivanov, I'm sorry, he was also in the Health Commission, then he withdrew strategically years ago, but here with great persistence he wants to explain the transfer mechanisms. I'm watching Mr. Ananiev smile. I'm sure he, if he comes out of the stands, will very quickly explain how this can happen, and here he nods with his head affirmatively. So please, this is about a legally established human act. Let's not verbatim so much where this money is going to come from! They'll come from the budget! They will not come from your pocket, from the pocket of every Bulgarian citizen who is merciful. And these people, you know, they're being accepted by our families, and they're looking at them without any means at the moment. So here... Keep in mind, we're on the air all the time on the Internet, embarrassing ourselves a little bit here now. Here we tear shirts off how much we are with Ukraine, what we want to do, knowing what we are, midgets in the field of arming, right? When it comes to simple things in a huge wave, I'm uncomfortable too, and with so much I would say love, but that word I dare not use, I respect Mr. Ademov as an expert, as a doctor, and also as a colleague for so many years. Now what happened, how could it be done this way? Mr. Ademov, we are talking here, and I repeat the legalization of a humane act that the Council of Ministers, Parliament, will find a way. There is also an update on the budget, to you to say it, if you are so upset, how now in the fiscal framework, where will this money come from and so on. That makes a little bit of an impression and I shared it with my colleagues yesterday. As we begin to go into the legislative work to look constantly for stumbling blocks and for someone here to manifest themselves with their relatively modest knowledge of both health and economics sometime, let's not do this thing. There is, of course, a possibility of criticism, but there is a possibility of a solution. I hope he will support us with the vote Mr. Ananiev as the most experienced financier in this House, so I see no point simply. Let us continue to vote and move forward that another bill awaits us. Again with the same probably ditherms we'll have to deal with in the next few minutes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u103	And thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Are there any lines, coworkers? Here you go, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u104	I take the floor because Professor Mihailov said he misses me. Professor Mihailov, I absolutely agree with you, I support what you say, but we have to be honest with these people. Yesterday was announced in the media a wish again to those working in the sector............ in the field of medical institutions with the signing of the Branch collective work contract. It is also a kind and a form of promise, but again it is not fair to these people and that yesterday, and what we are doing today if we do not say where this money will come from, how it will come from. You say nicely that Mr. Ananiev is the most experienced financier in this room. Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, who is in the Chamber, is also an experienced financier. I'm starting to think, as she is currently the director of the Directorate of Finance of the Municipalities and I don't know if this is the quality of the money that will probably be transferred will come from the Bulgarian municipalities after we voted its admission in the Chamber. We have to be honest and say that this money will come from the Ministry of Health, order one-one in the budget, paragraph one-one and the Minister of Health will transfer it to the Casa in accordance with art. 109. Either we say that the Council of Ministers with a decree will make a transfer from here to take it and give it to the Casa; or the Supervisory Board of the Casa will take a decision and pull out part of the reserve; or the unsold funds we voted on, the 50 million for humanitarian aid will from there take these funds and be given to the National Health Insurance Fund. The act really is highly humane, it must be supported, but if we support it, there is only one paper left without finances behind. That's what I want to tell you: we have to be honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u105	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Honest Mitev for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have a question for you if you try to answer me: when the opposition asks where the money comes from, and we tell them that there is such an opportunity under art. 110 of the State Budget Act, when they tell us that the Cashier is not an usher, but art. 28 of the Insurance Act says that the manager of the Cashier is a senior employee.................... how do you think you.... are supporting the Bill and they think it is good to give money to mothers fleeing from their bombed homes, on the other hand, do not support it? Can you explain to the audience how they both support it and find arguments that are actually non-essential and false? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u107	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there a third line? Professor Mihailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Serbenova! Dear Mr. Mitev, it is difficult to explain, no doubt. It's hard to explain. I don't want to go into the depths of Professor Angelov's so developed fantasy. Professor Angelov, the saints are in heaven. Here to stand on the stand in the role of almost a saint, to proclaim ourselves and to say that we want honesty, we are honest, you are dishonest, this debate here somehow has no place among intelligent people. We know what this is about, we know how it's gonna end. I also know, Professor Angelov, that the issue is extremely dynamic. If any of you are hired to respond in this hall from the stands when you think this conflict will end, how many refugees, with what burdens for any country that is a front or an off-front............................................................... You can see that over 80% of children have left their homeland in Ukraine? How can we predict all this? And you want a point in point to say here from the stands how this is going to end. This thing can't happen. The money will come again I repeat this to you and Mr. Mitev in his speech. There's a place for that money to come from. There's a place for them to come from. [[Reply by MP Kostadin Angelov.]] Don't cry on the cradle of the Council of Ministers. He will find a solution, the National Assembly will support it, these issues will be resolved. They're not finally modeled right now. I even thought I wouldn't answer with the backdrop because we're just wasting the time of the esteemed people's representation. Let's move on with reading and voting and things will come together. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u109	And thank you, Professor Mikhailov. To speak, please, Peter Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, this discussion that we are having here is important, as the budget must be transparently implemented and this must comply with all the rules and regulations. Here we have heard that there will also be a subsequent decision of the National Assembly most likely, which will allow the Council of Ministers to finally point out the source of the funds and they will be spent. My speech is in the direction that it has been related to this subject for several months now, our bill of amendments to the Public Finance Act is being delayed. Look at it, read it, try to understand it. That is exactly what we propose, i.e. these decisions, these decrees of the Council of Ministers, which seem promiscuous, which are the model of the jeep, to disappear. In their place, we should provide for a row in which the National Assembly can quickly consider such a change in costs, such as exceeding the cost ceilings, such additional transfers on separate budgets. It's all written down in detail inside. So instead of having this discussion, let us look at the Public Finance Act, accept our proposals, and then you will see that they do not limit anyone's freedom, nobody's flexibility, but, on the contrary, find the legal solution right in a situation like this, for which we have a completely normal and adequate discussion in the last 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Are there any lines, coworkers? Here you are, Mrs. Kirova, for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Chobanov, my line is for you. In this National Assembly, I learned that the revision of texts and legislative initiative go hand in hand with lyrical deviations. There are a lot of them, especially when there's nothing to say to the point. In this case, however, I am very concerned with the use of mothers and children from a bombed state as a shield with regard to the fact that you have nothing else to say and that you cannot specify texts that would actually facilitate the provision of the aid in question that we are talking about in this case. I didn't hear an answer to the questions. I have not heard any arguments that clearly convince me personally why the proposal made should not be voted on by your colleague. In this regard, I would like to return to the substance of the debate, and if we want to end this vote, let us be aware that we need to get a clear answer where the funds will come from and this source will be indicated. That's why we're a hall that actually lays down the rules and rules of law. I hope this happens now in the framework of this debate. I'm counting on our colleagues from.. We continue the Change..... and the importers will actually do it. To be honest, I don't understand why it didn't happen in the Commission. In this way, we will be all facilitated in the vote and we will be able to move on to the next point. Otherwise, it turns out that we are really continuing practices, which during the election campaign were waved as the flag black, however, and there was talk of how bad they were. Obviously not, since you want to continue to dispose of public finances in this way. He's not criminal, by the way, and he's not vicious, and he's provided for by law. I'm addressing you, Mr. Chobanov, you know that, but I'm also addressing my colleagues from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Chobanov, I think we have said quite clearly several times where the funding will come from. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] We said that the European Union is currently negotiating a common solidarity fund, where this money will be directed. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u115	Colleagues, please, not from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u116	Separately, we told you last time that there was money on European programmes from 2014. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of Today, we made it very clear to you. 110: The Council of Ministers may approve additional costs. We made it very clear. Why don't we accept your offer, Mr. Chobanov? Your proposal, in fact, holds your proposal. Your proposal is restrictive. That's the truth that we don't accept it for. I do not understand the following: if our proposal catches your proposal, Mr. Chobanov, why do you not support it? Can you explain that? Why do you not support our proposal when it also covers your proposal? Your proposal is restrictive. And to talk about who these funds are for, I think it's pretty clear. And I'm just saying it because it's the truth, Mrs. Kirova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u117	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there a third line? Krasimir Valchev. Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u118	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Chobanov, it is the principle of the National Assembly to strengthen the budget, the main elements of the budgetary classifications, including by programmes, including by functions, including economic elements. What we have done is to give the government the opportunity to change this promiscuously. It is clear that there is not all of the funds to be provided by the European Union, all the more so that there will be a significant delay. Two years after the start of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, we have not yet started spending the funds, and today someone will be asking the question when this will happen. It is clear that it will not happen. Our parliamentary group, if you recall, a large part, that of Mr. Mitev, supported the Bill at first reading, that is, we are not against and we do not accept the accusations that we are against, but at the same time we tried to say that there is better technology. Much better technology, but the technology that was chosen was the worst, and unfortunately, that opinion was not heard. I personally do not understand on the basis of which paragraph of art. 110 of the Public Finance Act will step down the government to make this transfer. Yes, Mr. Mitev correctly said that the Director of the National Health Insurance Fund is a senior officer, but outside the state budget, and art. 110 concerns the state budget, i.e. it cannot be applied Art. 110. 110 for restructuring and remains the question whether it is fair to make such a restructuring. I, for example, do not think that education costs should be reduced, but most likely this will happen. The cost of education, social assistance will be reduced to give. And that will not happen with the will, with the sanction of the National Assembly, but with a decree of the Council of Ministers. It was much more honest for us to vote on a total amount here in the National Assembly, to create an account from which to finance all these costs, and in the context of transparency to create the government's regulatory basis for doing so in a far more transparent way, but this is not what we are offered, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u119	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen. What colleagues have said is basically the same, and what we are proposing, Mr. Mitev, is not restrictive in any way. We are simply looking together here for a solution that will allow the finance minister to release these funds, because in this case, in the way we sign them in law, or in the way they are proposed, it will be very difficult for him to do so and to comply with both the letter and the spirit of the Public Finance Act. That is precisely why this discussion is being held to understand that the National Assembly can provide by any law for any means, not specifically for the case, which also has its social importance and sensitivity, and naturally we must find this solution, but when funds are envisaged by laws that are not budgetaryly justified when we intervene in separate budgets without changing the budget law of these independent budgets, then we also make it difficult for the executive to do so and we make it difficult for it to do so in a legitimate and transparent way. That is why I have taken the liberty of putting your attention and the question of changes to the Public Finance Act again. There is a similar order, read them carefully and these discussions will then find their natural solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, first of all, we will vote on the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in § 4, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote regime. Abort the vote. Vote 174 MPs: 56 against 85, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting § 3 in the version of the Commission and § 4 also in the version of the Commission. Please vote regime. They voted 177 MPs: 112, against 12, abstention 53. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'm taking half an hour off at 11.55. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u122	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. Here you are, Professor Tonev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. According to § 5, there is a proposal of the MP Anton Tonev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5. .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the 1. The creation of para. 3a: (a) Outside of the cases referred to in para. 1 and 2 health insurance rights of persons under para. 1 after their return to the country may be restored under conditions and by order determined by the decree of the Council of Ministers under art. 40, para. 10, when arriving from a country, the foreigners from whom temporary protection has been granted. 2. In para. 4 after the words "al." 3 "s' is added and 3 "s' is added. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. Proposal of the National Representative Anton Tonev. The Commission shall adopt the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 80d, para. 1 shall be added at the end as well as to persons with temporary protection under art. 1a, para. 3 of the Asylum and Refugees Act. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 7 there is a proposal of the MP Anton Tonev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8, in which it shall replace the word "act' with the "order'. According to § 8 there is a proposal of the MP Anton Tonev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In the Health Act in art. 83 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "Bulgaria" the foreigners granted refugee status, humanitarian status and asylum right are added and the words "equivalent to" shall be replaced by "under the conditions and under the order of "the." 2. The creation of para. 1a: (a) Foreigners with temporary protection shall have the right to medical care and medical services under art. 81 and 82 under the terms and conditions for Bulgarian citizens, with the exception of medical assistance provided in accordance with the rules for coordination of social security systems within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 22 of the additional provisions of the Insurance Act. 3. In para. 2 after the words "al." 1s is added. 1s. 1s. 1s. 4. In para. 3 the words "in the same way' shall be replaced by "in the same way' under the terms and conditions for "the same way'. 5. In para. 7 the words "the additional provision' are replaced by "the additional provisions'. According to § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Anton Tonev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10. ..................................................... In the Law on Asylum and Refugees in art. 39 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "sustaining' shall be replaced by "supplied'; (b) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. health insurance, accessible medical care and medical services under the terms and conditions for Bulgarian citizens, except for medical care provided in accordance with the rules for coordination of social security systems within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 22 of the additional provisions of the Insurance Act; 2. Allinea 3 is canceled. Proposal of the National Representative Anton Tonev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 11. ..................................................... The Council of Ministers shall adopt the decree referred to in Article 2. 40, para. 10 within one month of the entry into force of this law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u124	Thank you, Professor Tonev. I am opening a discussion on the tests presented by the President of the Commission. Peter Petrov, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My statement is by §8 and the proposed para. 1a. With the proposal made between first and second readings, I see that the importers of the bill have felt that they have repressed the food, which is to say that when they proposed this bill, because by granting the health care rights that the Bulgarian citizens own and should also be included in the right to be able to treat abroad, so that these health care can be paid by the social security systems for which the majority responsible voted 110 million. lv. in the 2022 budget, but we see that with the changes between first and second readings, this thing is exhausted, so at least it will not be necessary for these healthcare provided to be requested from other social systems, but only from the state budget. For me it is indicative in this direction and the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which is presented, if memory serves, on 11 April 2022, in the cashier's proposal, if I am not mistaken, of the DPS for an explicit indication that the money will be used by the state budget through the redistribution of expenditure, if memory does not lie to me. The Ministry of Finance has, of course, given a negative opinion on this proposal, explaining that this money cannot come through cost allocation. At least that's how I read the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. All these statements, which we read at first reading, that money would come from the redistribution of any costs, clearly do not correspond to objective reality. Of course, the money will only come from the Cashier's budget and the Health Ministry's budget. The changes between first and second reading show that the payment of these healthcare can not come from abroad, as obviously the finance minister has explained to the ruling majority that foreign countries cannot pay for the treatment of those who receive temporary protection, and only the national budget will have to cover those if memory serves me, 84 million. BGN, which are necessary annually for the provision of these healthcare. It is because of this confusion and because of these costs, which at present, including with the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, that it is not clear where they will be paid, that I urge you not to support this proposal and this new Article 1a in § 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u126	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. A line from Hasan Ademov. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u127	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear Mr. Petrov, you are probably talking about Directive No 883 of 2014, which refers to the open method of coordination of social security systems. It is a transfer of insurance rights based on a European Health Insurance Card issued by regional health insurance funds. So there is exactly what you are talking about in this directive, the division between the rights of refugees, people of humanitarian status and all the rest who are part of the European Union. In the framework of the European Union during the negotiations on EU membership, Bulgaria has ratified all the legislation related to the transfer of social security rights. That, if memory serves, is Chapter Two of the contract process. So all these issues are pre-arranged and we do not need to comment now on what has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u128	Thank you. Is there a second line to Peter Petrov? From Tsoncho Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u129	Mr. Petrov, I would like to ask you this position of the Ministry of Finance to provide it personally to the most-speaking of the ruling coalition Iskren Mitev......................he is obviously the spokesman of the coalition, to give it to him personally and to see what his finance minister says about all these things that he had the time to lose, I do not know how much, half an hour of parliamentary time to speak some complete... I would say nonsense but let it not be nonsense.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u130	Okay, let's. Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Is there a third line to Peter Petrov? I won't. Mr. Petrov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u131	Dear colleagues, thank you for your lines. First of all, my colleague Ademov, yes, you are right, the matter is settled there, but unfortunately, the matter concerning the people of dual citizenship, who were originally intended to receive rights under the Law, too. Subsequently, between first and second readings, we see that this possibility of direct involvement with the Health Insurance Fund has been withdrawn. In fact, it has been amended and the only possibility remains if we have a signed international treaty and it is ratified.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u132	This is governed by the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u133	Individuals with dual citizenship should first receive this protection. I said at first reading that this was the only proposal that was meaningful to me and I would support, I was now very disappointed that although it was settled, as you said, with the current law, it fell between first and second readings. So I cannot agree that we do not need to comment on these options because we see that policy towards people who have access to the Health Insurance Fund and health care is not consistent. The amendments made between first and second readings are essential, cashierial and para. 1a of § 8, and I believe that this discrepancy cannot be supported. That's my idea. Colleague Ganev, for you and for all MPs just to explain that the opinion of the Ministry of Finance is public. It is uploaded to the website of the National Assembly, supported, of course, accurate and accessible to all MPs who wish to meet it. That is not the case, unfortunately, with the report from yesterday's extraordinary meeting of the Health Commission, which we have not been able to meet, colleague Ganev, because it is not yet uploaded on the National Assembly's website, and we could not even get acquainted with the opinions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u134	It's been up for 31 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u135	That's how we didn't get to meet at least this morning. I am making the clarification, colleague Ademov, even with your opinions expressed yesterday, which I have learned were quite constructive, and I do not want to have to say in any other meeting of the Health Commission, so we should do it here in this Chamber, so that all 240 MPs, a colleague, should have to hear the opinions taken so that we can simply prepare ourselves for you, colleague Ganev, in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u136	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Another statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion, we're going to vote. We will put to the vote the following texts: § 5 in the version of the Committee on Health; § 6 in the version of the Chamber of Health; § 7 in the version of the Commission; the name of the division of the Board of Health; § 8 in the version of the Board; § 9 in the version of the Commission; § 10 in the version of the Commission; § 11 We vote on all the texts. They voted 146 MPs: 107, against 12, abstention 27. The texts have been adopted, and thus the Second Voting Bill. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE HEALTH LAW. A report came in from the Health Commission. Here you are, Professor Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Report for a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-254-01-31, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev and a group of MPs on 24 March 2022, adopted in the first vote on 31 March 2022. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Health (prom., SG No. ...).................................................... The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Simidchiev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 in relation to art. 79, para. 6, p. A decision on the eligibility of the proposal was adopted by 2 of the MNS. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 the following 1. In para. 3 Finally, the national plans are added. 2. In para. 4 the words "and national health programmes' shall be replaced by the national health programmes and national plans. 3. In para. 5 after the word................................ and national plans........................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2. According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Andrey Chorbanov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Simidchiev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 in relation to art. 79, para. 6, p. A decision on the eligibility of the proposal was adopted by 2 of the MNS. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Anton Tonev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. They're creating an al. 3a and 3b: In the event of an emergency epidemic situation under para. 1 as well as in the cases under para. 10, the Minister of Health shall introduce in implementation adopted in accordance with Article 10. 3, para. 3 National plan of preparedness and action for an epidemic or pandemic, and if there is no adopted one, the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Health, shall adopt a National plan of preparedness and action for an epidemic or pandemic within one month of the announcement of the exceptional epidemic situation under para. 1. (3b) In the National Plan under para. 3a The actions and types of measures to limit the spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1, including specific indicators, criteria and deadlines for the introduction of temporary anti-epidemic measures under para. 4 and 10 and repealing temporary anti-epidemic measures under para. 4 and 10 in accordance with the specifics of the spread of the relevant contagious disease under art. 61, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. In para. 4 shall finally be added in accordance with the measures set out in the national plan under para. 3a........................................................................................... 3. A new para is being created. 10 and 11: In order to address the consequences following the cancellation of the declared exceptional epidemic situation under para. 1 and/or prevent subsequent epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 as well as for control of the epidemic risk, the Minister of Health, on a proposal from the Chief State Health Inspector, may, by order, introduce temporary anti-epidemic measures for the territory of the country or for a specific area for a certain period of time in accordance with the measures and deadlines laid down in the national plan under para. 3a. (11) Temporary anti-epidemic measures under para. 10 may also be introduced by order of the Director of the regional health inspection concerned, in agreement with the Chief State Health Inspector for the territory of a separate area, municipality or locality for a specified period of time, in accordance with the measures and deadlines laid down in the national plan under para. 3a. 4. The creation of para. 12: The temporary anti-epidemic measures under para. (12) 10 and 11 may not include: 1. prohibition of entering the territory of the country; 2. limiting the movement of the territory of the country; 3. stopping work of public-use sites and/or other sites or services provided to citizens; 4. a requirement of a document for access to the sites and services under point 4. 3. 5. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 13 and in it the words are said. 4 and 7' are replaced by "al'. 4, 7, 10 and 11. 6. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 14 And in it the words are said. 4 and 7' are replaced by "al'. 4, 7,10 and 11 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u139	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u140	Thank you, Professor Tonev. I am opening a discussion on the texts presented. Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yesterday at the Health Commission, we were put in an absurd situation. According to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly between first and second reading are made written proposals for amendments to the bill, and yesterday the proposal made by Professor Chorbanov was withdrawn and instead on the spot.Dr. Simidchiev made a proposal which was completely different from everything that has been submitted so far. The meaning of the bill has changed completely. Suddenly, some national plans were introduced, which were neither discussed in the motives nor in the impact assessment, thus changing the entire bill, and in a way that the MPs could not get acquainted before a vote in the House at second reading with the Bill. I believe that what is currently being proposed to us as a proposal adopted by the Committee on Health should not be allowed either, because if we continue to do laws in hell, we are risking not only the unconstitutionality of the laws, but the same not to meet public expectations and suffer from a number of vices that will be manifested in time. I will vote against this bill with all its proposals and amendments, because once again the Minister of Health is given sole authority to introduce whatever measures he wants. No doubt public health is very important and it must be respected, but not at all costs. There are civil rights that are inalienable and cannot be violated no matter what the basis for this is. I would not support a bill that gives the minister authority to shut us down, to restrict the right to work, to restrict the right to education. I regret that Professor Chorbanov withdrew his proposal, but there were some very meaningful suggestions that personal protective equipment could not be required, that a certificate of access to certain places could not be required, that no other civil rights could be restricted, and that the measures were temporary. If possible, importers can explain what can be included in these national plans. At some point, it may also be that it may include mandatory vaccination against COVID-19, it may also include any other measures the National Assembly cannot know about at present. Once again, it comes to a single power, and we will definitely not support such a violation of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Are there any lines to Elena Guncheva? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Guncheva, I agree with you that when there is an emergency situation, the fundamental rights of citizens are limited. With this bill, Mrs. Guncheva, it is obvious in its essence that if you read it better, and if you take your time, you will see that this is what we are doing - we are giving you the opportunity to take step by step and certain areas to be put under certain measures, and that is what it is, Mrs. Guncheva. This bill, if we follow your logic, fully protects citizens' rights. What's happening right now? When there is no emergency environment, everything is normal when there is an emergency environment, it is exceptional for everyone. This means that areas that should not be under an emergency environment cannot be because this is how the Law is made and so rigid that it does not allow flexibility. With this proposal, we introduce flexibility. So, Mrs. Guncheva, if you want and if you really believe in citizens' rights, you must support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u144	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Second line.. Anton Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Guncheva, in the initial legislation tabled by us, the measures and powers that we had provided seemed a little stricter and a little more rigid. Between the first and second votes, we listened to both your motives and the motives of our partners in coalition governance, and as a result of the mutual hearing of the different points of view we created para. 12, which explicitly states that: "temporary anti-epidemic measures may not include: prohibition of entering the territory, restriction of movement within the territory of the country, suspension of work of public-use sites or other sites, or services provided to citizens. Although measures will be able to be introduced by the Council of Ministers after gathering sufficient expert information, in this law we give the opportunity not to be able to impose measures that violate the points listed by me. We have listened to your motives and not only to your own, but also to other MPs and parliamentary groups, so that we can make a maximum balanced law that is significantly better in terms of restrictions of freedom than the declared emergency situation that our government has not continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u146	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u147	Dear colleague Mitev, I'm afraid I won't be able to answer you because what you said was in such a high Harvard style. I didn't quite understand what you said. [[Applause from ARGUING.]] Professor Tonev, I understand the good intentions again about what you said, but I do not see in any way this bill, as well as the proposals to it made orally yesterday in the Health Commission, to defend civil rights. There remains still an unlimited opportunity to limit, for example, the right to work. Nowhere in al. 12 There is no limitation of the Minister, for example, to be unable to require tests or any other conditions for the access of employees and workers to their workplace, as there is no example for children. I will repeat that two years our children were put at risk of getting an education. They were locked in the houses, studied remotely, tested requirements were set so they couldn't go to school all this I didn't see guaranteed in this bill. Moreover, for these national plans, I suppose that colleagues who are doctors have an idea of what this is about, but neither in the motives of the Bill nor in the impact assessment any of us MPs have seen what is happening. How are these national plans adopted and in general what is their place in this provision, because tomorrow, for example, a mandatory vaccination against COVID-19 can be envisaged in this national plan? It's not out of the question. There is also no time limit for these anti-epidemic measures in the Bill, as well as in the proposals to it. We can't be in an anti-epidemic environment anymore, which is absurd, and there must be some time limit for these orders and for these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Come in for a statement, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u149	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, Dear Mrs. Guncheva, I will try to set a better example, I agree, maybe it wasn't clear enough. That's the example. With our proposal, if people in Petrichka district or in any particular area in Bulgaria find that there is a pandemic or epidemic, or disease that requires certain measures instead of the whole of Bulgaria being closed and subjected to anti-epidemic measures, it will be only this area, Mrs. Guncheva. I hope this example is clear enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u150	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines to Iskren Mitev? I won't. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Andrey Chorbanov is first, and then Nikolay Drenchev is little to have from different parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We were importers of some quite serious adjustments in terms of the norms and rights given to both the Minister of Health and regional health inspections. Of course, being part of the ruling coalition, between the two votes, we have had many consultations and many talks, and it is hardly any public secret that we have reached consensus and I will therefore firmly state that our demands constitute part of new legislation. We withdrew the paragraph in integrity with which we proposed to enter, but all its components form part of the bill, which is to give information. We have very much insisted that norms be introduced and that they represent norms in what infection should be taken. It was extremely important to have a plan that adequately reacted so that the Minister of Health would not have to improvise, not have to guess and urgently gather people to decide what to do. This can happen with an absolutely unknown pathogen and therefore there is a norm for how long a plan must be made. For all others who are very different, there must be separate norms. There is no way that all these norms can be put in place, be part of the Law, because then it will be a textbook on epidemiology. They will therefore be part of a very detailed current action plan that will describe all the norms that respect these things. This is not a Kovid bill, it is a bill concerning all possible pathogens and agents of infectious diseases, as well as the particularly dangerous infections for which the Minister of Health must have the power to respond adequately to the second and not particularly dangerous, for which there are other rules. That is why there will be norms for the individual pathogens, as it is often commented on who will write the rules. The rules will be written by experts, there is no way they can be written by people from another planet. They will be adequate to what needs to happen, and if they are not adequate, we will react and take action. There should be more confidence in the expertise in these things. And so far, the Minister of Health has many powers. Who hasn't been on a flu vacation? Who wasn't when the training was stopped? Of course, in this plan there will already be deadlines, it will be said what type of epidemic or pandemic for how long these measures can be imposed, because, yes, it was not really normal for two years to be in such a situation. Frameworks must be set and react adequately so that both the Minister and regional health inspections have rules to respond to so that this is at stake. With regard to certificates and access. Absolutely entered as a text the ban of the Minister to impose a certified, or as it is said in an exact way, the requirement of an access document, because the certificate is actually a document of access, whatever it is, of course. You cannot be given mandatory vaccination if you cannot be asked for a certificate. Where will they stop you if you have the right to go anywhere, how can they make you necessarily be vaccinated? There's no way according to this point in the Bill. What is more, who is currently determining the mandatory immunization calendar? It's designated by the Ministry. At any given moment, experts of the Ministry may gather and decide to include new vaccines. This too, of course, can be controlled by the National Assembly. Why? Because the Minister of Health is not a sole chief, he has a chief.. His chief is the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister is voted here in this Chamber. No one has wanted the resignation of the Minister of Health until now because he has not respected any measures regarding the rules. In the end, and so far, the main thing is that behind the measures imposed by any government, the respective government, the corresponding majority in parliament, stood. That is why they were imposed and were in any form, whether we agree with them or not, whether my personal opinion corresponds to that. It was protected by the majority in this same Parliament. And last but not least, of course, what was also important for the tests. Tests and measures that will be used in individual types of diseases should also be part of this plan, because remember, except for a species, for which you know very well what my opinion is, there are many other diseases, and this law concerns all of them. We can't align under the same conditions a disease, such as the flu, and especially a dangerous infection, not to let God list them all here, pulling the devil by the tail. That is why the Law implies adequate measures under rules that will be laid down very categorically in these Rules. The rules will not be, or an action plan, of course, it is essentially rules, it will not be either apocryphan, nor will it be any inability to adjust, change and so on, which always depends on the ruling majority, what rules will be for working under the individual rules. Many laws are based on regulations for their application, which are also subject to constant changes, and many of them are from the prerogatives of the Council of Ministers, so there is no drama. Everything we have required of our coalition partners is ultimately in one form or another part of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u152	Thank you, Professor. Here's a line, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u153	Dear Professor Chorbanov, with the utmost respect for you, I say so. What you just said seemed like a fairy tale. Just as we continue to change before the elections they said: do you know how beautiful it will be when we take power? At the moment, what we have heard from this tribune is: do you know how great it will be when this national plan is adopted? Again, such a national plan no one has seen, no one knows what it will contain and no one knows what it will have in it. So praising him in advance is a little far-fetched. And once again, I demand that there be restrictions in the Law. Of course, they cannot cover all cases, but there are fundamental civil rights which are enshrined in the Constitution, which cannot be restricted, and I believe that these texts should also be enshrined in the Health Act. Again, no one answered me whether it could restrict the right to work and the right to education, because I do not see texts in this bill that are in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u154	And thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. The second line is from Ivaylo Hristov. [[The National Representative Nikolai Drenchev wants the floor.]] Alexander Simidchiev is also ahead of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! When we introduced this law, it was said that the Law, how can I say, limits the rights of the health minister very much. At some point, we have to consider this. We, as a Health Commission, although most of us are doctors, must very well balance between the interest of citizens and what is the real situation as a health problem. This balance is not easy. Bear in mind that this law, I claim to know a lot of health legislation in Europe, which is currently one of the most liberal in Europe. At the moment we are limiting the rights of the health minister very seriously, and such a thing is almost nowhere, so what we are giving, I do not agree that we are limiting in any way the rights, because let's imagine what would occur in a country where we prohibit the cataclysers from stopping cars or the tax authorities from carrying out checks. That's what we're trying to do. With such democratic in quotes, we give the Health Ministry no chance to react. The balance we have achieved at the moment, again I am telling you, makes legislation in the area of epidemiological situations not the most democratic but the most liberal at the moment. Any other loosening of the measures will lead to complete anarchy in healthcare. We must always bear in mind the protection of interest. Keep in mind that at the moment many colleagues of the experts in this area have declared themselves against this, many colleagues have had, who have declared themselves against the cancellation since April 1st, and their arguments have also been quite clear and logical. We will not get anywhere if we do not take account of the balance and take into account the interests of citizens, in the sense of the interest in protecting their health, including with the provision of such measures. The law in this form is still offering the most liberal at the moment, and we will support it in its version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u156	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Alexander Simidchiev for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u157	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Like a line to Professor Chorbanov. I would like to thank him for having come a long way together and the Commission yesterday personally felt extremely satisfied for several reasons. Not only because of what the DPS did, because of what it did and because of what the DPS did, because of the discussion that we had before and with BSP, I have to say that for the first time I see what should happen in the committees to reach consensus, and although we have differences, to discuss them in the committees and to keep them there. Today there could have been a much sharper discussion on different topics, although we accepted something that is extremely positive. What we have done is that we have achieved the balance that is necessary in order to be able to move forward in a very meaningful way, with sufficient rights with the Minister. We need to know that if we restrict the Minister's rights further, we will not be able to ask him for any responsibility because the rights and responsibilities are inextricably linked. We can't just give responsibilities, but we can't give rights or vice versa. For this reason, what we did yesterday in the Commission, despite the fierce discussions we had, we have achieved a balance from which I now see that it is not just a part of the rebirth. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u158	Thank you, Doctor. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My hole will be mostly in terms of criticism of our decision. Among my loved ones and acquaintances, I am known for reading fairy tales at night, so that doesn't mean that fairy tales are to be trusted 100%, but that means that we need a little more trust in institutions. There is no way, if we, being MPs, are not trying to create institutions with more confidence, we cannot expect society to have the appropriate trust in ourselves. It is for this reason that I also express my satisfaction that we have managed to reach a consensus where all countries feel satisfied and have a really modern legislation, which, as Dr. Hristov said, is, in any case, one of the most liberal in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u160	Thank you, Professor. To make a speech, Nikolai Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u161	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The truth is, with this law, we take another step, masked with good intentions, but it's actually a step towards hell. In fact, the only representative body in Bulgaria who has the right to speak on behalf of the people is the National Assembly. Two years ago, the National Assembly was the only body that could in any way restrict citizens' rights and freedoms related to any emergency situation, a state of emergency. Then some extraordinary situation was introduced, which is obviously something other than a state of emergency, and was given the power of the Council of Ministers to decide that. I am not sure whether the health minister, or the health inspector, on his proposal, is doing another step down in the capacity of one person, to dispose of the business, with life, with the loans, with the finances, with the movement, with health, with education, with the children and with everything he can think of. This is because everything that has been said here that the Health Minister, you see, has been limited by some national plans, and who writes these plans? Isn't this all a creation only of the minister's subordinates in the Ministry? Whatever the assumption that the minister had been misled was that he was too scared, it was that he was incompetent, it was anything else, all the things that we saw them too much, too abundant in the last two years, any of these hypotheses could lead the Bulgarian people to suffer extremely much. Yeah, maybe not in all areas, maybe all areas, because there's no limit. As restrictions are introduced in one area, they can be limited in all areas or almost all areas. Within 30 days of the month, exactly 30 areas may be closed, open, and again closed, and this thing that we've watched many times, we can watch more and more. This is an extremely incorrect bill. Once again, the entire hall from the far left, from BSP, passing through the Canadian faction, through Slavi's party and ending with the so-called Democratic Bulgaria, Ukraine, something like that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u162	Mr. Drenchev, don't qualify your colleagues like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u163	Okay, I'll stop. I apologize. Maybe I was wrong, Mr. Chairman. Either way, we see one step towards a moving fascism, and this is one step towards imposing a fascist dictatorship where a person, the health minister, or the health inspector, can offer and implement an extremely restrictive regime in all areas of the life of Bulgarian citizens. Once again, it is only and only by the powers of the National Assembly and we have no right, we do not have at least the moral right to delegate it down the chain to the Council of Ministers that has already been done, now to the health minister, then to the philankisha. This is an extremely wrong approach, and I strongly ask that, with the rest of common sense, if there is one in plenary, we reject this bill. Thank you. [[Private applause from AGE.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u164	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. I would just like to ask again not to make such qualifications to any parliamentary group, whether it is from the ruling coalition or from the opposition. I believe that any group can find something to make her feel offended, and there is no need. Mr. Mitev, are you for a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Drenchev, you have spoken about the truth and I will therefore invite you to tell the truth to the people you invited to the square to protest, why do you want, when there is a disease of another horse strain in Blagoevgrad region, to close the entire country?! Explain to them. Please explain this to them. You were most opposed to all measures. With this proposal we give the opportunity not to one person, Mr. Drenchev, but to an institution of health is an institution, Mr. Danchev, to take step-by-step measures and when there is a local problem, it is local and not for everyone. And in your desire to answer the people who are most affected in Bulgaria, and when there are sick in Petrich, not to close the Black Sea coast, Mr. Drenchev, this bill allows this. Therefore, Mr. Drenchev, if you are really interested in the welfare of Bulgarian citizens, you should support it. And for the grief, Mr. Danchev, if you want people across Bulgaria to suffer so that you can direct this hatred against the government, that is another matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u166	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Second line from Anton Tonev and third from Alexander Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Drenchev, I'm addressing you and the entire group of adults. Coalition government inherited from previous governments an emergency epidemic situation. In this environment, executive power had unlimited power and could have imposed any measures. We are continuing the Change on a proposal from the Ministry of Health, for which we are responsible, has not continued this power of executive power. And at the moment, in the form of a political statement that you are entitled to, you allow yourself to instill a fear in society, how could people who give up power abuse it somewhere forward in time? I ask myself one question: who needs this fear that you plant? Your constituents are certainly not. Our voters and they certainly do not need to live in fear. I do not want to continue to expose you as people who instill fear to benefit subsequently from this fear, but unfortunately, you are imposing this dialogue, which has nothing to do with the proposed bill. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u168	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Let's hear Dr. Simidchiev. Mr. Ganev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u169	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Drenchev, as far as I know, you're a pilot. As a pilot you must feel constantly under the influence of some creeping fascism, because piloting is extremely highly regulated there you have corridors where you can fly, a height at which you can fly before takeoff each time you make a checklist of all things. All things that are actually rules that must be observed for safe take-off and landing. Therefore, I cannot understand why what you are doing for your own safety, and if you were a civilian pilot, you would also have the safety of the passengers behind you and deprive the people of this safety in Bulgaria, the responsibility, when the rules are respected, to have safety for everyone. I'd be very interested in how you'd motivate him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u170	Thank you, Doctor. Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u171	Thanks for the lines. War is peace, freedom is slavery, the health law is not fascism. But it is. I'll start from the back. I'm a fighter pilot and I never fly in a hallway or low or high and always where they don't expect me. In the same way, I have been taught to expect the opponent who will come either low or high, or fast, or slow and never as we have pledged the means of anti-aircraft defense to protect him. Here, a little bit of doctors feel in their right to speak as professionals on this subject, but I see a little as Charlie Chaplin. There's a movie where the kid goes to break the windows and then repairs them. In the same way, I see a huge desire in doctors to be in some kind of fear, in some tension, in some epidemic and something to happen so that life in Bulgaria can be repressed, something with which we have, up to now, 1300 years and more, we have survived without particular care, without such imprisonments, without such epidemics. We'll probably survive from now on, unless we're taken care of too much by the way we see it happening or at least they're trying. In the end, I do not want any citizen of the country to be in Petrich, either in Durankulak, to be imprisoned against his will, to be imprisoned, to be instilled in fear, to be replaced with any restrictions in his life if he does not agree to take over them. Anyone who is 18 years old is old enough to take care of himself, and there is no need for us to force him with force, with restrictions, with some ferocious measures to shut down his business, to force him not to be able to move, to demand certificates, to stop his children from school. That's something we shouldn't allow. We are the National Assembly. We are the last line of defense to the madness of executive power. Once again, I ask you to take a deep look at what we're doing. We're getting the wagon in front of the horse again. That's how we're gonna crash. It's not gonna work. We will give exclusive power in the hands of one person, to an institution that is run by one person, to do whatever he sees fit for any whims that will come to him. And I say again: yes, I am military, I always expect what is not expected. Under no circumstances can I trust the now proclaimed claims that the Minister of Health will be well-intentioned. Imagine, gentlemen... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done with a last sentence. It's great that you're very well-meaning. Imagine that rebirth will soon come to the management levers, that the health minister will be at an aging age and imagine then in a bad situation, what would happen to you if you were not sympathetic to him. Thank you. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u172	Mr. Drenchev, how should we understand this last one?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u173	I am explaining my last words to you in no way should they be interpreted as a threat. Once again, they're not like that! This is an absolutely hypothetical situation that could theoretically ever happen somewhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u174	I'll ask without such hypothetical and theoretical situations. Maybe it's a good idea to keep them hypothetical. Irena Anastasova procedure. Sylvie Kirilov, were you speaking? Okay, then for the speech Sylvie Kirilov. Silvi Kirilov, Georgi Mihailov and Krasimir Valchev afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! My procedure is based on art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am proposing an extension of the deadline for written proposals under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education by three more days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u176	When does he run out, just to ask you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u177	It's leaking today.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u178	Expires today? Three more days? That is, in practice, the Higher Education Act will expire on Monday. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Irena Anastasova, the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Law amendment and supplement to the Law on Higher Education to be extended by three days. Vote 120 MPs: 113 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. The deadline is extended by three days. Professor Tonev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u179	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I am doing a procedure to extend the working hours of the National Assembly until the adoption of this. Two on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u180	The proposal is to extend the sitting until this point is completed. [[Heckling]] You might not have to in practice. I put to the vote Anton Tonev's procedural proposal the present sitting should be extended, if necessary, until the end of this item on the agenda. Vote 155 MPs: 110 against 17, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. To make a statement, Sylvie Kirilov. Then are Georgi Mihailov and Krasimir Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I'm a doctor and I'm a little professionally deformed in a particular area of communication and in relations with people. Since yesterday's stormy meeting of the Committee on Health and also of today's debates, one way of thinking and one conclusion of an acute lack of confidence in society, in institutions, in science, in personalities is necessary. We have therefore worked for decades so that we can reach the point of not trusting in the medical community, not trusting medicine as science, not trusting institutions that coordinate and manage medical and diagnostic processes and public health. Of course, there are also media here, because medicine is loaded with many emotions, not always positive, and there are many negative emotions that can be speculated and speculated. Including the notions of an epidemic and a pandemic. From this tribune I had the opportunity to say that epidemics were there, pandemics were there and there will be more. Science epidemiology has achieved many successes in its development and has proved its right to exist and its ability to combat and manage the epidemiological process and we question these conclusions and postulates, which have been imposed not yesterday and today, but for centuries. We must learn to live in these conditions and this environment. In this order of thinking that we should not forget that many celebrities who were doctors worked on the front front of health care and in much more serious epidemics than the one that was an indicator of the failure of the organization of Bulgarian healthcare have achieved success. And not only that, but during the nights they have reached such peaks of the writing work, I mean Griboedov, Chekov, I do not want to reach Somerset Moam, Mark Twain, Archibald Cronin, Valeri Petrov or anyone else. Dear colleagues, my speech is a little methodical, a little emotional, it is not for the House to think now and now, but tonight in peace at home. I think there are many questions to be answered about the future of Bulgarian medicine, about the authority of the Bulgarian doctor and specialist in health care, about the place and role of public health in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u182	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Line from Anton Tonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Associate Professor Kirilov! I take a line, but it is entirely in the spirit of what you said and fully in support of your words. I will only allow myself to add from my practice here there are other doctors who can confirm patients do not doubt the institution or the doctor's respect when he tells them that he has acute appendicitis, prostate cancer, immunological disease or any other disease that politicians have not intervened in. Disbelief and fear, here I take note of my previous statement, come when politicians decide to take advantage of this fear and instill mistrust, build up a little political asset. When we started working in the Committee on Health, which I have the honour of chairing, we repeatedly sent a message to both of us as coalition governance and to the opposition, to have a right to health policies, which is quite normal, but to reduce the level of policy. Dr. Simidchiev just thanked and I use his words to thank him for the constructive tone we are taking to the Health Committee. I believe that politicians from all parliamentary groups have enough political space to accumulate their asset, to earn their constituents, but the territory of healthcare must remain sacred and that we do not allow ourselves to mislead and create artificial fears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u184	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Is there a second line to Sylvie Kirilov? I won't. Would you like a douche? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u185	I thank Associate Professor Tonev, but here, while listening to him, the Hippocrates, who IV century before Christ lived, and he had similar problems, they are described in the original Hippocratic oath, so we will not find the hot water. I also agree on politics and policies, but these are actions that are in our capabilities, in our daily lives, in our words, in our behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u186	Thank you, Doctor. The next speech is by Georgi Mihailov. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Serbenova, honourable colleagues! I did not think that we would come to the vote of an extension of working time in such a technological bill that governs quite seriously, quite democratically and quite professionally the end of a situation that has been extremely unpleasant for both the entire nation and the world as a whole in the last 24 months. However, as I listened to you personally in the course of my speech, these verbal salads, which were given to us here just a moment ago, I remember the song of Vlaitski Mama, her lover and all sorts of things here, came to a definition of extreme parties, Canadian factions and all sorts of nonsense I was listening to here indeed. Also that doctors allow themselves to seize the rights in society, some Jacobin parliament is asked here to put a scaffolding and everything goes through it the flu vacations, the measles vaccinations, whatever. This law lays down for those who do not understand anything about healthcare, and here they stand out from the stands to give a tone to society and to show themselves as defenders of its rights, a few basic things.. gives the government the opportunity of flexible action in the face of the Minister of Health under the control of the Council of Ministers, under the control of the National Assembly! Everything, every regulation can be called and supervised in the National Assembly regardless of what was said to have specialized advice on epidemiology, on infectious diseases, there are presidents of these councils, there is a Supreme Medical Council at the Ministry of Health. This can still be controlled by the National Assembly. However, to want here the right word, Mr. President, is to speak out of the stands that this is a crawling fascism, but this is such a naive thing that I am uncomfortable with the colleagues who here have allowed such definitions to have this modest debate in the clouds. After all, our fellow citizens are watching us. We are trying to end one part of the heavy 24 months in a normal way, to move forward in normal life and to give the right, of course, to dynamic control of the organs that are called for it. Should we then ask the Interior Minister here to account for all the actions of the Ministry of Interior for all the detentions, for all the actions he carries out on the establishment of one act or another? [[Heckling]] Should we ask the Attorney General to appear here every week, and he should report on what the Attorney General is doing?! [[Heckling]] I don't know where this is going to take us and maybe it won't reach Professor Tonev's offer! We will have to think about this by tomorrow and not accept the bill, but that will not happen, I hope. [[Heckling]] Yes, we've extended the time you're right, and I was surprised we could get there to extend the time for an absolutely technological bill! Therefore, in closing this statement, Mr President, the bill is very clear, the proposal was very clear. Even yesterday there were sharper discussions in the Commission on some issues that were bordering, but were within the framework of the Law, of course. Now here I saw things that surprised me very much, very saddened me. I hope we will quickly conclude this discussion, as there is nothing special about this bill. If we go back in the history of our health care, it is more than 100 years, of Third Bulgaria, we will see that these rights he and Associate Professor Kirilov said it once here, I do not know where it is, if it is in the Chamber yes, that the Minister has always had these rights, Mr. Chairman, always had and no one has challenged them! And now there are some people here with some tough shoulders who want to take that responsibility from the minister without having any of it. They want to decide whether there will be, whether there will be, what there will be! On the contrary, Dr. Hristov told you. This bill is relatively liberal, it allows for control by both the Council of Ministers and by the National Assembly on the activities of the principle of the Ministry of Health. So I don't see the point anymore. Here I was told by a colleague, whom I deeply respect, Dr. Ademov, that he has decided not to speak today on this bill. I call on everyone: the one who will come to speak from this tribune, to speak on the Bill specifically, not to speak idle words, not to say where it flies and how it appears in surprise to everyone. This is not in favour of the bill and legislation, but is to the detriment of all of us and we are wasting the time of the National Assembly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u188	Thank you, Professor. A line from Iskra Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor, I did not hear a word on the bill from you, and you have completed your speech with a call for that. You went out to make remarks about loud words with much louder words than those that have been spoken so far. However, this emotion is understandable from you and from everyone who speaks is understandable because the last 24 months, which you mentioned, critically, were due to absolute inadequacy from both employees and institutions, including the institution of the National Assembly and the ministries mostly. We are all suffering at the moment from the single decisions that came from GERB and the way they began to rule the pandemic, and went through all the official governments, and ended with this supposedly new government of some change. This is where the debate is. This is where we have to decide when to this day we do not have an impact assessment of the way the pandemic has been managed until now. And when we don't have that assessment, when we don't know what we've lost and what we've won, when we're currently betting on a bill based on texts that don't exist, now is not just the time for emotion, but absolutely everyone should realize that they shouldn't support this bill in this kind. Really, emotion is needed for perhaps the first time, and I will allow myself to say it, although I myself have urged that there be none when it comes to laws, but this is about the lives of the Bulgarians and the way in which it was destroyed systematically for two years, from which we cannot yet recover mentally and economically, and yet we will see the consequences of these absolutely inadequate decisions that have been made. The National Assembly is the representativeness of the Bulgarian society, we are in representative democracy. Right here, right here, we have to have this debate and solve these issues. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u190	Thank you. Is there a second line to Georgi Mihailov? I won't. A hole, Professor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Serbenova! Dear colleague Mihailova, I quite accurately....take your transcript, if you have not paid attention to the speech in sufficient detail, I have determined what the role of this bill is. And otherwise, in the area of the joke, I can tell you: in Hyde Park there is a place in London where people who want to express themselves get on a box of soaps, it is a tradition in Britain, and there are speeches there, not in the British Parliament, but there, they have an audience, they can sit there and listen to them. It's a very interesting English tradition, and sometimes I think of it by listening to you speak from the stands. There are no emotions, there is a desire for our legislation, our legislative process to go into normal parameters, not to go into conjecture, in mixing concepts that are not in favor of our legislation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u192	Thank you, Professor. Krasimir Valchev for speech. Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u193	Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Serbenova, here at the first reading of the Bill, I have expressed some concerns that, unfortunately, looking at the Commission report are being confirmed. These concerns were that we would create a legal framework that would ultimately favour transferring the burden of future possible measures mainly on children and students. Unfortunately, this happened not only in Bulgaria. It has happened in many countries, the unfair, I would say, shifting the severity of the epidemic to children and students. It happened because the easiest thing to do is stop the students. The losses in education may be the greatest, but they are invisible, indistinguishable, delayed in the future. There are no current economic losses. I have witnessed how regional health inspections and the chief health inspector first comes to mind, or the district and municipal headquarters, the first thing that comes to mind is to shut down educational institutions, to stop the attendance process. Now I fear not only that we leave this opportunity, but also with the proposal, which has been made what the exceptions to the temporary anti-epidemic measures are to be here - I hope Mr. Tonev will disprove me as an importer - we direct primarily to education. In other words: the Minister of Health will not be able to introduce many other anti-epidemic measures, but will be able to stop the attendance process. I hope you, Mr. Tonev, and one of your other colleagues in the ruling majority will disprove me. To say that this is not so that point three, which states that the work of public entities or other objects or services provided to citizens includes this, but the close reading does not include this. Therefore, I will make an offer according to the order of art. 80, para. 2 to the Commission's proposal, to the version of the Commission in this paragraph fourth of para. 12 to be added to this including the suspension of the attendance study process in the educational institutions. Because otherwise we continue to be dishonest to children and students. To restrict a constitutional right, such as the right to education, where the damage, even measured as life expectancy, can be greater. In order to preserve the lives of adults, we may have limited the life expectancy of children, because higher education also implies a higher life expectancy, and mental health, and movement are associated with a higher duration. And all these things were more or less damaged, so the moral dilemma is not education against health care, it is not the right to live against the right to education. I say this because it has been speculated many times with this moral dilemma that we must stop children, damage their right to education in the name of the right to preserve life. I am afraid that this bill further favours this, or, more precisely, the proposals made between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u194	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Valchev, we've just had a very visual demonstration of something I just said. Mr. Valchev, whose expertise in education deeply respect and conducts very interesting discussions, made a proposal, even put it in his right as MP for legislative initiative, so that the minister does not have the opportunity to impose a flu vacation. He, of course, may not realize it and I use the right to say to him that the proposals made by us do not represent a specific disease, but they represent the possibility that, in an infectious disease, we may be able to control this infectious disease through the ability of the executive to control it without imposing extremely large restrictions and without having to enter into an emergency environment. Yes, your proposal is essentially logical, you very well motivated it, with this little detail that we do not make changes to the Law on a disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u196	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. Here you are, Mr. Mikhailov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Chairman, dear Professor Serbenova! Dear Mr. Valchev, I am surprised at your speech as you and I remember very well the behaviour of your Council of Ministers in the spring of 2020, in the autumn of 2020, in the spring of 2021. Then, when I remind you now, the French pediatric association turned to President Macron, said: "Return the children back to school! In practice, Bulgarian students have been in forced distance training for almost two years, so it is not moral. Your personal contribution is appreciated. You were the only person standing firm, but now to reproach the Bill... Professor Tonev answered you exactly. This isn't about the Kovid or the flu. It's about a common situation. That's a legal problem. This is not a problem of one disease or another, but to deprive the Ministry of Health to solve this problem?! It has rules all over the world regarding respiratory infections. I'm talking about them, aren't I? Not to mention a particularly dangerous infection. That's not right. Otherwise, on the part of your political party, you are her representative to talk about problems for the protection of students is not moral after what we have seen. Thank you, Mrs. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u198	Thank you. Is there a third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u199	Mr. Valchev, your expertise in education is indisputable. This proposal that we have heard is very sensible. Rebirth will support it. I suppose it will not be accepted, as the coalition stands guard and will not allow any limitation of the Minister's rights, which will be able to dispose of all aspects of life and business, and of course, of our future. I mean, our children and their access to education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u200	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Mr. Valchev, you have an opportunity for a duvet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u201	Thank you. Mr. Tonev, I accept your note that it does not only apply to horse mackerel, but to all epidemic diseases, but my statement remains in force why is there an exception to any other services, public-use objects, to any other rights, and not an exception to the right to education? That is, in the hierarchy of values we leave education again in the last place. Why? Because children may not vote because they do not have representative organisations to protest because there are no really economic losses, because it is the easiest to transfer responsibility to children. That is, if you stand by your claim that the Minister should have this right, he should be entitled to many other things, otherwise, once again, we will be unfair to the children, once again we will transfer responsibility above all and only to them. Professor Mihailov and I have talked about this. Spring of 2020 everyone has approached extremely, you know that. 2021 there were countries that said: we will last close the schools. It is not true that we have been shut down only schools. Such a situation occurred at the time of the second caretaker government last year. A few weeks were closed only and only schools. The fact is, what I told you is that regional, municipal crisis headquarters, health inspections, the first thing that comes to mind is to propose that the attendance process be suspended. It is not true that during the entire past school year there has not been a attendance process. There was a demand for balance. I can tell you that we have very much preserved the I.V. class. Yes, we really failed to preserve the attendance process in V " XII," but look at it, you will see that in the I "IV" class we had more time than in other countries. I told you that we collected express information from more than 25 countries every week, because we have Sunday schools, we have teachers who teach in the relevant educational systems, and in terms of I That was not the case, unfortunately, with regard to V " XII," but we had both educational and health arguments for such a differentiated approach. But as the other countries have said, it is the third year of school and we must have learned our lesson, and this lesson is that the greatest public loss comes from the damage to the right to education. Yes, there should be flu vacations, but if there are flu vacations, they should not only be for kindergartens, but should be for many other institutions, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u202	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. The next statement is Mr. Kostadin Kostadinov. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u203	There was a statement here in which the speaker said that this law was not the law of the Kovid. I don't know if he believes it himself when he says it, because the truth is that it was presented as the Kovid Law, because, you see, now that the emergency situation is over, the emergency epidemiological situation, and once it's all over, we have to be ready the next time there's another third, fifteenth wave of morbidity going up there. The truth is that this is a very private law, a law on a disease that is adopted I do not know why, by the way, with quite different arguments, but in fact whatever we are talking about, it is only about this, as if there are no other diseases not only in Bulgaria, but also around the world. However, the bigger question is in another, and I want to take the tape back a little bit, because that the Law is political, specifically aimed only at this particular disease, there is no point in discussing it. We all know that. The question is the numbers and statistics, because in the last two years this disease has been commented more by mathematicians and statisticians and all other people, only not by doctors. In fact, doctors were much further back in the ranking, speaking of comments and speeches. Last year at this time, if you turn back the tape and look at the news, you will see that there were then apocalyptic news about how in Bulgaria there are 1,000 people per day sick. There were reports of deaths of seven, eight, nine, ten a day. Something that we are still being told on national televisions, because what our national televisions will be like if their day doesn't start with another introduction of how many people are sick, how many of them are in intensive care units, how many are newly vaccinated, how many are dead and so on, and so on, and so forth, all that we are fed up with. Last year it was the atrium of hell, this year no one paid attention to it. What's changed? The numbers are the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u204	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u205	Don't replicate me from a place, please. Then, when you have the chance, you'll replicate me, and I'll answer you right after you with the numbers. In this situation, we are actually talking about an enormously obvious hypocrisy, which shows that this issue has never been medical. It was a political issue from the beginning, a political matter to nowhere. He was also here until a few weeks ago, when some of the people wore masks, others didn't, although they were still mandatory. Even on the last day before the measures were dropped, and the Minister of Health was here without a mask. Even we joked that we could call RZI now to fine her, as she called here to fine us. In this situation we should pay attention to a simple fact, which is known by the whole Bulgarian society that the whole story with the so-called horse, the so-called pandemic, which all these analysts, sociologists, statisticians, mathematicians and here and there were some other doctors, was a political operation, not to say a special operation that was not politically correct from this tribune here. The truth is that what we talked about last year is not only us, of course, every sane person, that these diseases were there and will continue to exist and that, unfortunately, some of them end with a fatal conclusion, unfortunately, it will continue and will exist and that we cannot always live as prisoners. This thing that we talked about last year was commented almost as something that violates all human frameworks - it wasn't ethical, it wasn't normal, it wasn't human and so on. Everything that was spoken about our address last year can now be said about everyone else, because the numbers, again, are the same as last year at this time. Anyone who doesn't believe can check, see, look, make a comparison. Even if I didn't say they might be smaller. Another question is how much we can trust this statistic, because the last two years the Bulgarian hospitals have bathed in golden rain past the so-called horse, and the money that has spilled there the spectacular amount that has spilled there has led to the fact that unfortunately, the quality of the health care and service provided to all the other patients has suffered, because not all of them are sick only and only from this golden disease, which has been No 1 in the Bulgarian media for the last two years. Therefore, when we talk today about this bill, there were remarks that if you see, there were no statements on the bill. The bill is clear. On the subject of the Kovid should be given an opportunity for what was previously in the hands of the National Assembly, and then in the hands of the Bulgarian Minister of Health, now to pass through every single official at the RZI. I don't know what the next step is. Maybe in some of the directors of directorates inside RZI?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That is why we will not support this bill, it is clear, but more importantly this bill is not supported by any of the Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian society on it clearly and categorically expressed its opinion. Not only does it not support it, on the contrary, Bulgarian citizens express their concerns and they were mentioned by someone from here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u206	The weather, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u207	Yeah, I'm graduating. That in fact this bill is envisaged with a single idea: to allow for further similar special operations in the Bulgarian society.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u208	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. You will have an opportunity in the back to further develop your thesis. Are there any lines to Mr. Kostadinov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev. [[Loud noise.]] Please keep a good voice. [[Loud noise.]] Please order in the court, keep a good voice. Go outside and solve your problems there. The Quaestors will step in, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u209	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, you told us that the speeches of the respected doctors, regardless of which group they are from, are blatant slanders. With your comparison of the golden rain you made a cynical statement with regard to Bulgarian doctors. All the doctors in this room, we owe them our lives. And because you are talking about political suggestion, I am one of those who saw the work the Bulgarian doctors do. I saw corpses moving out, people dying around me and you talking that Professor Angelov, Professor Mihaylov and so on, doctors were flooded with golden rain. You should apologize to the doctors in this room and to the medical workers at all. That's a shame! It's a fuck-up with the work of those people who are saving our lives! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u210	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any other lines? Any other lines to Mr. Kostadinov? I won't. Do you have a wish, Mr. Kostadinov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u211	I don't even deserve to answer, but still, because the doctors were involved. The truth is that the doctors did wonders of bravery, despite the Bulgarian state and despite the policy that was imposed by the government then and now, because they were somewhat different in relations with the Bulgarian doctors there is not much big. Don't let yourself distort what I mentioned, because the truth is, there was a lot of money in hospitals. However, the truth is that planned operations have been postponed. The truth is, at that time last year, my friends and I had to donate money urgently to a friend of ours who had to have brain surgery, but had to do it overtime because it turns out that at the scheduled date, it wouldn't be possible to do so, as the hospital would close for scheduled operations. The doctors then said: "We can do the job, we want to do the job, we don't let us do our job! Do you understand me? That is what I meant by saying that doctors do all this despite the policy of the government. And what happened was a really ugly cynicism, because the policy of the government then and now, your government, because it took part of the so-called planedem, was to create a division among the sick. There is no difference whether one person is sick with a horse or a common flu or there is some other disease, they all had to receive the same treatment, the same care, only for two years the Bulgarian society was mentalized, created a lot of problems. If you look at the statistics, you will see that it has increased the number of people who died from heart attacks and strokes and suffered similar diseases. And all this: why? Because for two years they've been telling us how, if someone sneezes in the park, the leaves of the trees will fall out. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's it! And don't shake my head, because the truth is that you psyched and drove the Bulgarian society crazy. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And no more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u212	Save, please, the good tone. Declaration by the group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u213	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! 50 days ago, a war began near us. Not some small regional conflict, but a war between two of the largest European countries, with two of the largest European armies. Russia's war in Ukraine has resulted in an unprecedented response to various levels of financial support to Ukraine and humanitarian aid to the poor population, through severe economic sanctions against Russia, to significant military assistance to both financial and direct arms supplies to the Ukrainian army. It is an expression of solidarity with the country that is the subject of a military attack. In this situation Bulgaria has had to make important decisions as part of the common actions of the European Union and NATO, the unions in which it is a member, as well as individual actions related to our capabilities and the expectations of the Bulgarian society. In the context of real security threats, not so much military as the risk to energy supply, difficulties for a number of sectors of the economy, possible food crisis, increased flow of refugees and others, the Bulgarian government takes the necessary action to preserve both the domestic stability and the international authority of the country. In times of war and growing threats, however, there are political formations which, instead of helping to consolidate society, do exactly the opposite, create tensions, spread lies, carve dividing lines. Whether this makes them more popular is early to say, but that is how Bulgaria becomes more vulnerable and weaker is undeniable. The Bulgarian Socialist Party has a clear and consistent policy regarding war and peace, and not since yesterday. Our long history is often considered a problem that weighs us in elections, but at a time like today it gives sustainability in our positions and actions. We are addressing all of us to approach the challenges facing us - both leaders and opposition. Following up on the issue of military assistance to Ukraine is inexplicable. On this point, I would like to say very clearly: BSP supports all aspects of assistance to Ukraine without the delivery of deadly weapons and ammunition. This is a red line and we are grateful to the partners that, at least until now, they have complied with this reasonable and responsible position. We do it not only for us, not so much for our beliefs, but because we think it is in the interests of Bulgaria to approach cautious and moderate. It is in Bulgaria's interest that the government should not go against the opinion of the majority of Bulgarian citizens, not create unnecessary worries and tensions. If this position is revised, we are ready to revise our participation in the government. Yes, the European Commission has decided to provide military and humanitarian assistance under the European Peace Support Mechanism. Only some of the funds are for military supplies, the rest is humanitarian aid. Bulgaria does not pay for weapons for Ukraine! The Minister of Foreign Affairs will inform us in detail on Friday. And I would like to declare once again that no bullet has come out of Bulgaria for Ukraine either as a paid supply of arms or as humanitarian or military assistance. A representative from BSP will not vote for such a decision, a minister of BSP will not put his signature under a decision in this direction. Bulgaria is not the only country that refused to provide deadly weapons. The same announced Austria, Cyprus, Ireland, Hungary. They, like Bulgaria, send humanitarian aid, some of them provide financial relief, as well as direct financial support. There is no external pressure on Bulgaria to provide military assistance. We therefore call for this topic to be removed from the public debate so that we can concentrate on the rest of the far more important problems. What we expect is for the government to offer a comprehensive aid package to Ukraine and the civilian population, which will be so located in time that it will be acceptable to us and useful to Ukraine. We will expect the Bulgarian government to participate actively in the discussions on the country's future recovery, focusing on areas with a dominant population of ethnic Bulgarians. We expect the diplomatic presence of Bulgaria in Kiev and Odessa to be restored as soon as possible after an analysis of the level of risk services, of course. The European Commission delegation returned to Kiev, other embassies continue to function. The Consulate General in Odessa can ease the relations of the Bulgarian community with Bulgaria and help better coordinate the evacuation of the fugitives from the war. We would like to consider the possibility of financial assistance, albeit modest, under the means of development aid, for example, of the Bulgarian region of Taraklia in Moldova, an area already sheltering over 1,000 refugees. We want the Bulgarian government to present a more comprehensive plan for the measures regarding those who are fleeing the war that are arriving in Bulgaria. There are still problems in some places at the reception, for example, of Durankulak. So far, we're doing well, but the flow can be considerably enhanced if the war reaches Odessa, which is a very likely development. In Bulgaria there are already 80 thousand, which is an unprecedented number, and will grow. We must not turn a blind eye to the fact that tension is already being created, that the wave of empathy will inevitably result in fatigue. We welcome the efforts of the responsible ministers, but the challenges are piling up. The children are over 25 000. We should look for opportunities to continue their education. At this stage we do not need everyone to enter the Bulgarian schools. The country of Ukraine organizes online training, we need to help students to follow the Ukrainian curriculum. The most important thing, however, is to anticipate the effect of sanctions and counter-sanctions. The effects on the Bulgarian economy will be significant, especially if it goes towards bans on imports of energy resources, the supply chains will be disrupted, there will be a need to redirect markets, imports and exports. It is inevitable that inflation will rise. The growth of gross domestic product will prove to be significantly less than anticipated, the social problems will be deepened. We want a plan on how to limit these effects. Citizens want to see that power is serious, to feel stability and predictability in the actions of the government and the National Assembly. The forthcoming update of the budget is a way for intentions to be dressed in numbers. We have given part of our proposals, but everything must be dressed in a common financially secured plan. I stop here and end again with a call for reason, for calm, for behavior, in line with the responsibilities of the moment. The whole past year, we've been practicing party squabbles and political scandals. Sooner or later, the time will come for this too, but right now, in these critical moments, we must be Bulgarians first and then partyers. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u214	Colleagues, we are continuing with the statement of Tsveta Galunova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman! We have clearly and categorically stated our position and we have no intention of giving way to it, and it is that this bill single-handedly introduces power into the hands of one person to decide the fate of millions. Thus formed the texts of the Bill in relation to one person's judgment allow him to become a central figure in the cabinet and respectively in the state. With this bill, we give power to the Minister of Health to impose restrictive measures which are incompatible with the ideas of democracy. And here I would like to remind you that the Minister is a performer of parliamentary will. He was not elected by the Bulgarian people and could not focus in his hands such power that he could bring our country into a medical dictatorship. Getting acquainted with the texts of the Bill, we did not see significant changes, rather they were cosmetic. The texts continue to wager a violation of constitutional rights. The introduction of an extraordinary epidemic situation should be due to Parliament's decisions and it is unacceptable for us to circumvent the will of Parliament. Here I would also like to comment on those who defended the introduction of this bill, who said that it was different and that changes were made in it. In fact, no changes have been made to him. And honourable MPs, at the moment we are betting a bomb not only for ourselves, but for our children as well. Do we want them to live in a country that randomly imposes restrictions on the assessment of a single person in the country? Since the previous speakers also justified the introduction of this bill with a National Plan to combat the epidemic situation, I would like to address them and ask them: where is this plan? When will it be drawn up? If it hasn't been prepared yet, who will? Why wasn't his drawing up before this bill was introduced? And most of all, will the Council of Ministers have the opportunity to introduce changes to it afterwards, because at the moment we remain convinced that we are being offered one, so to speak, semi-finished. If this national plan is an essential part of this bill, then let us also be presented to it. Download your bill now, form it, complete it and then send it back to the National Assembly so that we can vote adequately for it. Otherwise, we cannot vote for anything other than what has already been presented to us, namely establishing a medical dictatorship.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. The bill is to amend and supplement the Health Act and at second reading there is no way to withdraw it. Are there any lines to the statement? Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u217	Madam President, honourable Members! I was thinking procedure at first, but I'll do it as a line. Colleagues, we've been MPs for four or five months now, some more, but at least that much. Well, we should already be aware of the difference between discussing a bill at first reading and voting on a bill at second reading. We've been listening to rallying speeches for an hour now. If you have anything to say in essence, by the texts we are currently looking at, by what the Chair of the Health Commission reads on the second reading report, do so. But you're using the National Assembly stands for something that doesn't help anyone. It's not enough that for two years we've been pressuring each other with all sorts of things, as you are expressing yourself, apocalyptic paintings, and now you're continuing in the same way with anti-apocalyptic paintings. Get to the point! And there is no way, you rightly noted, Madam President, there is no way to withdraw the bill because we are at second reading. Learn a few things. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Are there any other lines to Mrs. Galunova's statement? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u219	I will join the report and reply made by the chairman to say that there is really no way to withdraw this bill now, and to say that this is actually not a very big problem, because in a few months there will be a new governance, which then this pointless and politically harmful bill will be sent to history. He'll go where many others went before him, who even their importers have forgotten they brought them in. So we are now commenting mostly on the people who are watching the debate to see who is in what position and, accordingly, to take the account... who serves the interest of the Bulgarian people and who serves someone else's interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u220	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u221	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Galunova, I agree with what Mrs. Anastasova said, but the topic itself is generally very much related to the fake news in general, which flood us with propaganda and false news. Maybe it's right now, right at the end of the day, to disprove another false news that's been pouring out of this tribune more than once, and that's connected to the ship, Tsarevna, the sailors on whom they've been evacuated...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u222	Mr. Ananiev, please get to the point. We're at second reading of the Bill...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u223	... Yeah, yeah, that's right, but we're talking about the fake news.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u224	What's your line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u225	Mrs. Galunova, didn't you hear me? And given that we are being flooded with such false news, I would like to congratulate Prime Minister Petkov and Military Intelligence on the successful evacuation...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u226	Definitely what you're doing has nothing to do with the discussion...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u227	...to the sailors and I'm glad that with the real news we're fighting the fake ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u228	Mrs. Galunova, come in for your coat. I ask you to focus on the texts that we are looking at, because we will not end within the prescribed time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u229	Mr. Ananiev, you took a line that was not at all essentially, and you took away the opportunity for me to get an answer to my questions which I asked, namely they were related to the National Plan where he was, when he was going to be presented to us, why he wasn't presented after he was an integral part of the Bill, because you justified the introduction of this bill precisely with this national plan. To Mrs. Anastasova I can turn and say that yes, we are not helping anyone, at least the Bulgarian people, by introducing what we want to introduce right now. And no, it's not true that we haven't made any proposals. We have made oral proposals in the Committee on Health which are available to each of you and here from the stands we have repeatedly stated our position.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. The proposals shall be made in writing between first and second readings. In the manner of conduct, please come in, Mr. Mihnev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u231	Mrs. Kirova, the way you're being led is my procedure. Perhaps you should have given Mr. Ananiev the opportunity to make it clear that the government evacuated 15 sailors, those 15 sailors for whom you were concerned, dear colleagues, from the siege of the ship It was important and perhaps you should have let Mr. Ananiev say it. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u232	Thank you for the procedure, Mr. Mihnev. You are giving me the opportunity, as it is in the manner of conduct, to explain to you that what Mr. Ananiev said has no connection to the discussion in the Chamber at the moment, absolutely no connection has been made and only makes work difficult and is wasting time in Parliament. You can safely say that outside in front of the media or wherever you want. If this is how it's going to work, no problem, everyone can make promiscuous speeches. Again, we're going back to whether or not the Rules of Procedure matter. We move on to the next speech. You have the floor, Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u233	Madam President, honourable Members! We talked about going back to the subject of the Bill at second reading, let's say if we have something specific about it. Well, for example, to take the words of Tsveta Galunova and the National Plan. An importer shall be provided for the proposed new.................................................................................................................................................................................. 63, the Minister of Health with orders to introduce temporary anti-epidemiologic measures to address the consequences of the exceptional epidemiological situation. I already see an evolution between first and second readings created a National Plan. The coworker explained what was bothering her. We've never seen an animal like this before. We haven't seen an emergency epidemiological situation, but I'm worried about something else as a practical person. Will this National Plan be possible if citizens disagree, as they disagree with the orders of ministers and appeal them, will this National Plan be able to appeal it, or will we not be able to appeal it if we disagree with it, as citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria? How can we appeal him? Where, when, in what terms? Can the Court rule on its legality? I am only asking, perhaps, because we are talking specifically about the new paragraph 3a, which is proposed to be created with the proposals between first and second readings. In fact, since we mentioned that, on the one hand, we do not know what this plan is, what will be in it, and on the other hand, colleagues here have expressed an opinion that this law is being used as a fundraiser for political statements, political influences, and not to protect people's health, to give you an example. On Sunday, while we were waiting for the Ukrainian Embassy to accept us, a Frenchman came by who said that the presidential election could also be voted with a positive coronavirus test inside the section. Here, I am giving you an anti-epidemiologic measure from one of the most democratic countries in Europe that has struggled hard, with the greatest restrictions, the so-called crown pandemic. She's allowed the citizens to vote in the Kalabalkah section and the Tarapana there, not to say the crowd, with a positive coronavirus test. That is what, honourable Members, is actually the use of the so-called pandemic for political purposes, because when you are a low-rated president, you will also let the infected vote, and it is not about people's health. So please do not explain to me that with the proposed changes between first and second readings and specifically this paragraph 3a to art. 63 We actually heal people and protect their health. No, actually, we're doing what the French did. According to who governs us, this is how we use legislation to achieve our political goals, evidently from the results of the first round elections in France. Next, it is a heartwarming possibility to introduce such measures by the Minister, who may recommend to the Director of Regional Health Inspections, that we ask a question to the Minister and ask her to tell us those over 125 thousand people who entered from Ukraine, whether their health status has been verified, have they been quarantined if they are positive and how many are in number. We received an affirmative response, unfortunately more general than the minister. We will ask a supplementary question: to give us a little more detailed data, as I personally have a doubt. These anti-epidemic measures, which are introduced with this plan, which is not known by para. Art. 3a, art. 63 as proposed, will only the Bulgarian citizens apply, will there be exceptions for those who received temporary protection under the bill under the previous paragraph, or will these measures apply to them under this plan, or will there be exceptions? I am not saying that there is an exception at the moment and that these 125 thousand people have not been checked the health status of everyone, as we have at Sofia Airport. For example, at the moment, actually up until 10 days ago, we were being tested, or did we not have a test, and so I wonder how we are being offered these changes between first and second readings without being motivated without being explained in detail, and even today, for two hours, I have not heard absolutely no grounds for the introduction of these specifically 3a and 3b? If someone could replicate me, explain what the idea is and how you would protect people's rights against this national plan. Of course, I'll do the doppelganger later, I'll agree if you could convince me, but I don't believe you can, because if you could, you would put it in the motives of the proposals, colleagues, but even the motives are extremely laconic to these two proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u234	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Here you are, Mr. Chòbanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Chorbànov, just to clarify, I'm very fond of my family, she's very old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u236	Sorry, my costumes are too much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u237	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will be brief in relation, in particular, to the Plan. The biggest problem in management or actually the lack of management of the pandemic so far was that there were no rules and in practice everything was very much due to improvisation and really decisions of the relevant authorities what to take or not to do. The plan implies rules in order to protect the rights of Bulgarian citizens to the greatest extent. Don't mention it to Minister Serbenova, because at the moment she is a minister, what rights she will have from now on on on on our society, because I am not sure that she will be able to bear all this responsibility as a burden what heavy things you can do with society. The idea is to have rules! Finally, I would like to say, of course, that all these rules, like any legal act, can be appealed and Mr. Petrov, as a lawyer, knows best where and how he can be appealed and how he can be commented at all in society and in the judiciary. As for how often it can change and how it will change as management, I very much hope that in the coming months there will be no opportunity to change management so easily because it will be part of some other fairy tale or those I will no longer be able to read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chorbànov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, mate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u239	Mr. Petrov, my line is more of a question to you. Would you support a bill in which there is a national plan that no one has ever heard of and seen in black and white?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u240	Thanks for the line, Mr. Dimitrov. Is there a third line on Mr. Petrov's statement? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u241	Dear Professor Chorbanov, on the one hand, I fully agree with you that there should be rules. Those are the rules described in detail, we have imported in cash especially for this article. 63 of the Health Act, for which, unfortunately, the ruling majority did not meet the term of the And when the so-called rules that you need to have are proposed at the moment, but they are not mentioned and contained in a plan that no one has ever seen before and which plan will be drawn up as the ruling majority and the government needs, there is no way to support this proposed change in art. Art. 3a. 3b that are created. With regard to my colleague Nikola Dimitrov, no, I would not support him, I will give you an example. I spoke to a fellow MP of mine today and asked him: well, where will these measures and these actions of the Minister be described? He says: there will be rules of application of the Law. Where are these rules, who will draw it up and by these rules what will it say, what will be the rules? Can we challenge them if we don't agree with these rules? Unfortunately, we did not receive an answer to such questions, but we received only assurance, colleague Dimitrov, that there will be a Plan and in it will be written rules at the discretion of the executive in the face of the Council of Ministers, and that there will be rules on its application, which will, of course, not pass here, to get acquainted with it as MPs and to express an opinion. Unfortunately, that's how it works, and that's how you change art. 63 of the Health Act. Colleague Dimitrov, if you focus on the legislative proposals that are being made and which followed one after another, you should know that it is this matter about the actions and activities to be carried out by the Minister of Health, that is the key to these changes that are being proposed to us, and if you see the growth in the restrictions that are being done between first and second reading, you will also understand the purpose of these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u242	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that we have been able to get acquainted with different opinions from both the ruling majority and our opposition. We have heard essentially important proposals and opinions, we have understood what is happening in France during the elections and other so emotional speeches. I think it's time to end this discussion. I propose that, as a procedure, we put an end to this discussion and move on to a vote. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u244	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. Is there a reverse offer? I won't. Let's go to the vote on the proposed procedure by Mr. Tonev. Vote 157 MPs: 118 against 16, abstention 23. That's how the offer is accepted. We're calling off the discussion, moving on to the vote. We are voting on the draft Law from § 1 to § 4, including the title "Concluding provisions" supported by the Commission and the name of the Law. One clarification of the draft name and paragraphs 1 to 5, including with the new paragraph created. Please cancel the vote so that we can clarify all the texts on which the vote is voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u245	Honourable Members, I shall put to the vote: the name of the bill, as by importer; § 1, which is proposed to be established and is edited by the Commission; paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 by numbering of the Commission, and by importer are paragraphs 1 to 4, but due to the creation of a new paragraph by the Commission appear from 2 to 5......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They voted 171 MPs: 116, against 13, abstention 42. The proposals have been accepted. Here you are, Professor Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u246	Under § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: In paragraph 5, point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 of "Concluding provisions" to issue the new para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Andrey Chorbanov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6. There is a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: A new paragraph is being created... with the following content: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1 of the NHIF Budget Act for 2022 in a sentence first after the word "Observation" the words "and 3 months later" shall be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MP Andrey Chorbanov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Anton Tonev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In the Law on Medical Institutions (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 94a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1 shall be added at the end in accordance with the measures set out in the National Plan under art. 63, para. 3a of the Health Act. 2. The creation of para. 1a: The Minister of Health may order the directors of regional health inspections to introduce temporary measures and activities under para. 1 and following the cancellation of a declared state of emergency, respectively of an exceptional epidemic situation due to the epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act, where there is an increased number of persons suffering from contagious disease, under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act, which need hospital treatment and/or compulsory isolation in a hospital care facility in accordance with the measures laid down in the national plan under art. 63, para. 3a of the Health Act. 3. In para. 2 words by para. In the cases referred to in paragraph 1, the following shall be replaced by the following: 1 or 1a.. 4. In para. 7 after the words "al." According to § 8 there is a proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In paragraph 8, Article 8 is replaced by the following: 15a, para. 2 in the sentence first to drop the word........................................................................................................ 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.' The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Simidchiev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 10: ..................................................... The Council of Ministers introduces the National Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria to prepare for a pandemic adopted by Council of Ministers Decision No 884 of 2020, in accordance with the requirements of this Law within 1 month of the entry into force of this Act. Under § 9 there is a proposal of the National Representative Anton Tonev, made in accordance with Article 9. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 11: "11." The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 6, which shall enter into force on 1 April 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u247	Thank you, Professor Tonev. I am opening a discussion on the texts presented. Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! Since the President of the Health Commission has read all the proposals by the end, our proposals are three and I have the right to five minutes of a proposal, that is, 15 minutes, according to our regulations. I'm not gonna take those 15 minutes so I don't cause any trouble in some of my coworkers. Regarding the proposal to drop the new para. 2 in § 10. I made this proposal after the information came out that regional health insurance companies refuse to pay the clinical pathways of medical institutions which do not meet the conditions of Chapter Two, Section III of the Health Insurance Act. This means, translated into a more understandable language, that medical institutions where they do not have, to say, infectiouss, specialists in infectious diseases, are unable to exercise the activity on this clinical path, that is to say, not be able to treat a species of sick. The National Health Insurance Fund and the Regional Health Insurance Fund have quite correctly informed the contractual partners because there is no such text in the Law. Now we propose that this text will enter into force on 1 April.. with a retroactive date so that regional health insurance funds can pay, the National Health Insurance Fund will pay for what is made, because in this period between 1st and 13th, there is no active text that will enable it to be paid on these clinical pathways. The aim of the proposal, which is now being made, is to preserve the possibility for medical institutions to be financed by the National Health Insurance Fund even in cases where they do not meet the requirements of Chapter Two, Section III of the Health Insurance Act. It's about meeting standards, it's about levels of competence, and so on, we don't go into details. That is the proposal, and that is why I have done it, because it makes no sense of this proposal, since the regional fund said it wouldn't pay. If this proposal is accepted, the situation is quite different now. Regarding the next proposal. Dear colleagues, it is more interesting. A moment ago, when we discussed the Health Insurance Act, it was that a transfer from the state budget could be made to the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund without changing the Budget Act of the Fund. Yeah, but now look what you're doing. You are changing the budget of the Health Insurance Fund with this proposal. When are you right? Now or then? Let's work this out. I never speak from this tribune of things I haven't felt, I haven't realized them, I haven't understood them properly. Therefore, colleagues, we propose that the National Assembly and Bulgarian medical specialists in health care, doctors and nurses should hear the news by the end of March in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund are provided the money. for doctors, BGN 360. for specialists in health care and 120 BGN for paramedics. That money is gone from now on. We propose three months after the end of the emergency epidemic situation to continue the payment of these funds, so that within these three months the government can understand again how they will enter, how they will enter the salaries, what will happen within three months? That's why we're making this proposal. I think it's perfectly correct, and it deserves the support of everything else. Perhaps someone will tell me that there is a new situation yesterday when collective bargaining is concluded, but that is another topic. If you want, we can talk about it. Regarding the next proposal. The next proposal is in the Law on Measures and Actions during the state of emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly, and so on. It is about these 1000 leva, which are paid to specialists who are on the front line. Honourable Members, it comes to this that three months after the cancellation of the emergency epidemic situation, these funds can be paid. However, they are gone and again the question of the source of funding arises. That's why I want to remove the word "can" and replace it with the definition text. These are very modest, very simple proposals and please be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u249	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. The line to Hasan Ademov is from Kostadin Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u250	Dear Dr. Ademov, I listened very carefully to what you said. Indeed, with the cessation of the epidemic situation of the medical institutions, it will not be paid for the treatment of a species of patients if they do not have infectious structures, have no infectiouss or have no contract on these clinical pathways. I am now going to read you a letter from a regional health inspection to all medical institutions, which says the following: In this regard, I would like to inform you that all hospital care facilities can accept for treatment patients with a primary or accompanying CIVID-19 infection both in your available infectious individual and in other hospital care structures, although they are not infectious, although they do not have an infectious disease, they can accept patients with COVID-19. It is necessary to provide a number of beds in absolute, strict insulation. How will these beds be provided under absolutely strict isolation, provided that the beds with which the hospital has a contract with the Casa are clearly regulated in profile specialties, when they do not have an infectious disease contract? One more thing I am reading to you: At the same time in hospitals, hospitalization should be provided to all patients who cannot be treated over time, regardless of whether the patient has a positive or negative sample for COVID-19. Everything that's written in this letter is right. It is logical, it is humane and medically supported, only that the regulations that have been introduced, the regulations that we are introducing at the moment, are exactly contrary to what I have read to you. The hospital has no contract on infectious diseases and there is no infectious disease, but it is required to treat patients who have COVID 19, regardless of what hospital beds it has. This is precisely to mean the ignorance of the health sector and an attempt to correct it by laws that clearly contradict real reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u251	Thank you, Professor. Here you are, Professor Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u252	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Dr. Ademov, my line is for you. This really is an interesting topic?? What happens to the money given extra for a horse? Kovid retreats. He's not missing, but he's retreating. For the record, starting this morning, which is a working day in the middle of the week, which means we can't expect any deviations, there are only about 800 newly discovered cases. Most likely not more than 10, 15 or 20 of them will reach a hospital throughout the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u253	That's not true! It's 121!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u254	We can continue to keep them dependent and they can expect us politicians every three months to speculate on how much money will be, will they be given, will they not be given. We are continuing to propose a change. You mentioned a part of it, in the income policy, that these funds, which have been allocated so far, be given, but not because there is or has not a copy, but to be given as a fair one, perhaps not completely enough, but a fair increase in the salaries in hospital care, which are mentioned in the proposal for a collective employment contract, which is being discussed this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u255	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Third line from Professor Baltov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable People of Representatives! Mr. Ademov, it's sad when we see what happened to the medics. The idea was for three months to have a period in which these people would be further stimulated, in a transitional period, which had to stay for the next three months from 1 April to the end of June. I don't understand why the ruling coalition suddenly decided that this money wasn't needed and needed to be saved? And even more sad is the attempt at the moment, through a collective employment contract, to bring them into the National Framework Treaty for 2022 of the National Health Insurance Fund and in some way to be put into the basic salaries of the medics. I personally believe that there should be such a transitional period and I fully support you with what you want as a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u257	Thank you, Professor. Here you are, Dr. Ademov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u258	Thank you, fellow Members, for your lines. They're important. In practice, honourable colleagues of GERB SDS, you supported the thesis that I tried to protect in this proposal, for which I thank you. More interesting is the line of the esteemed Associate Professor Tonev. You claim that the Kove is retreating. At the same time, however, you are proposing in the next three months hospital care facilities to conclude contracts to keep the bed facilities ready. Okay, since he's retreating, why do they have to keep a bedside base ready, and with what money? And we're back to where the money's gonna come from? The Ministry of Health will pay for this money. This one, first. This is for al. 2, which is in this term. More interesting is the question of the figure of the so-called collective contract. Don't pull my tongue on this subject, because I can talk long, long and irritable. I'll tell you why this branch collective contract can't work. Because to find out why this can't happen, we need to read art. 57 of the Labor Code. If we read this article, we will understand that collective bargaining applies only to members of trade unions and employers' organisations who have signed this national collective bargaining. All others can at any time join this collective employment contract under a specific procedure. The important question arises: Ajeba "to use a word from my mother tongue"? Bulgarian doctors are a hundred percent members of trade unions, or are they not? First question. Then how is this collective employment contract going to be mandatory for them, can anyone tell me? [[Heckling]] You can't. There's only one way that I can, because I don't remember the members, I have to look at them listed in art. 57 of the Labour Code, I may be confusing the article, this is not so important: The Minister of Labour and Social Policy has the right to extend the collective employment contract concluded at a branch or branch level only when all national representative organisations of workers and employees ask the Minister in writing to do this work................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So, colleagues, to think that the collective contract concluded at national level solves some of the issues related to income policy, we should also be aware of what I said just now, because I understand the intentions to seek the opportunity of those 600 BGN, 360 BGN, 120 BGN. to somehow get into salaries, but the proposed way with collective bargaining, especially in small municipal hospitals, is not going to work. Tell me which is this little municipal hospital that will be able to find that 800 leva. additional to the salaries of doctors, 550 BGN to the salaries of health care specialists and 200 BGN. For the rest of the people who work in the system? Tell me how this is going to work.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-13.u259	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. For a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Honourable Members, we are going to vote. First of all, we will vote on the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in § 5, item 5. 1 of the Final Provisions to cancel the new para. 2. This proposal is not supported by the Committee on Health. They voted 164 MPs: 46 against 76, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next proposal again by MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, not supported by the Committee on Health, to create a new paragraph with the following content: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1 of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022, sentence one, after the word "Obstructional" the words "three months later" shall be added. Vote 166 MPs: 49, against 78, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the third proposal, which is not supported by the Committee on Health, and it belongs to the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In § 8, Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 15a, para. 2 in a sentence, first to drop the word, may also be added after the word "health" to the They voted 167 MPs: 56 against 76, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on paragraphs 6 to 11 in accordance with the numbering of the Committee on Health, and § 6 is in the text by importer; § 7 is in the text by importer; § 8 is in the version of the Commission; § 9 is in the version by importer; § 10 is in the version of the Commission; § 10 is in the version of the Commission, it is proposed to be established by the Commission; and § 11 is also in the version of the Commission. We are voting on the six paragraphs of Anblock. They voted 143 MPs: 107, against 12, abstention 24. With this, the proposal has been adopted and so has the Second Voting Bill. That's why I'm calling off today's session. The next one will be held tomorrow at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
