ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Before we move on to the agenda, let me inform you that on the grounds of art. 181 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly Manoil Manev and a group of MPs withdraw the draft Law on amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, signature No 47-254-01-26 of 9 March 2022, with importers Manoil Manev, Radomir Cholakov, Desislava Atanasova and Tomislav Donchev and ask that we take into account the above and not to submit the Draft Law for discussion and voting by the National Assembly at the first vote. We move on to the first item on the agenda of the day: The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in this row. He's already started a discussion. [[Reply.]] I resume the discussion on this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u2	REPLICA: Can you tell the groups how much time they have?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u3	I will now inform you how much time left from the discussion they have the groups. To date, Rumen Gechev, Hassan Ademov, Iskren Mitev and Iskra Mihaylova have made statements. Are there any willing to speak on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs? Without the extensions we continue The Change.There are 25 minutes; GERB-SDSS "27; DPS "12; BSP " 9; There is such a people. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. [[The National Representative Tsoncho Ganev wants the floor.]] Is there? Mr. Ganev, I didn't see you, excuse me and please extend the time. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u4	Mr. Chairman, four months! For four months the ruling coalition did not gather the strength and courage to examine the bill in question, to discuss it in the Chamber. Rather, it was discussed a month ago and a similar bill, which has been repeatedly introduced by BSP over the years in this same room by this tribune BSP fought fiercely against it. However, it is important to say that at the moment for more than two months we have a raging financial crisis not only in Bulgaria, not only in Europe, but in the whole world most likely. Something just two days ago, the Finance Minister in the Finance Commission asked him what are the measures the ruling coalition is taking at its ruling coalition council. He said that decisions on the severe economic crisis in Bulgaria are currently missing, not taken, discussed and the coming weeks will be proposed in parliament to discuss some legislative changes. In this regard, again, I remind you of four months your ruling coalition refuses to consider and discuss a bill in which the poorest country in the European Union, with the most working poor, does not want to look at the option in which medicines for the poor and for the sickest people in the European Union are 20% lower. You do not want to look at a raging energy crisis for more than half a year VAT for electricity for domestic consumers to be 20% lower. You do not want to look at a raging more than two months and rather even when you were adopting this budget, which we at the time said to you that it is not realistic because inflation is huge and is not what is officially announced. You do not want to consider a proposal for a VAT reduction on the small consumer basket with the presumption and with explanations that this will not be able to ease the final price. No, there's a way to ease it, because it just won't rise prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines to Tsoncho Ganev? Sincere Mitev is for a line, Nikolai Drenchev is for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ganev, what you said about what the Minister said two days ago in the Commission is not true. It is, of course, documented, anyone can look at it and it is not true at all what you said. He has not said that no measures are being taken, no measures are being taken, they are being discussed by the coalition, even this Friday will be the next meeting where I hope they will already be resolved. On the other hand, as we said last time, your proposal is simply unfulfilled. It, like most of your proposals, is a bad proposal, a populist proposal that can't happen, Mr. Ganev. You then stated that you would correct this proposal in some way so that it would become feasible. Mr. Ganev, it's been a long time, we didn't see any correction, so when you come out to tell the truths from the stand, when you go out on the stand to say things that are comfortable for someone who doesn't understand, hear them, you know, Mr. Ganev, that there are people who understand this, work on it and take the best measures. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Nikolai Drenchev for the second line. Yeah, after we finish the speech. [[Reply.]] Is there a second line? I won't. Mr. Ganev, come in for the doppelganger after this procedure by Plamen Abrovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u8	Mr. President, it is nice that in five months' time in Parliament, elementary things are laid down in the Rules to learn, it is nice that people who stand here for five months and their main part is to interrupt discussions with their madmen and are ridiculeful to many of the other colleagues, to learn and understand that we are not between first and second readings to bring any adjustments and changes. We're at first reading right now, it's a start, but it's nice to learn about these things. As for what you said about the Minister of Finance. No, that's exactly what he said: no action was taken. The fact that there is in your coalition council, which nothing fruitful has given in five months of management, is another topic..............that there is no decision for anything. The economy dies and nothing happens! On the contrary, it has been stated that measures are being discussed, which the coalition council will reconvene, discuss them again and possibly bring some things into the Chamber, some of them. What? Nobody knows! So far, the business has paid over BGN 500. Current, so far, we've got an empty gas warehouse, and we should have started the shock from the beginning of April. All of this gives the reason that we are in a severe crisis and if a layer of Bulgarian population can afford everything and live and afford to tolerate this government, a huge part of the Bulgarians who are the poorest country in the European Union for shame and disgrace and this National Assembly, because this National Assembly also does not change anything about the economic situation of the Bulgarian people, on the contrary to the crisis, there is an acute need for people who are struggling and at the end of the month ahead of choosing whether to pay their currents and overheads, or to buy food and medicines, there is a need for these people to be helped at this very moment at least to be able to buy their elementary food products. Because it's very easy from this tribune and in this room to explain how things happen, the government works. No, the government doesn't work! And no, this Parliament is not working fully, there are small things being discussed, there are things being discussed that are not giving any results, there are constantly heard in the committees some officials, without making any decisions, absolutely no decisions. As far as the bills submitted by the opposition are concerned, none of them are adopted, on the contrary, there are bills sitting for months, not even considered in committees. Even today, there are committees in which, once again, we will only listen, but we will not take anything concrete. For four months, this bill sits you to favor your ruling coalition to sit down and consider it. No, it hasn't been reviewed, and now we're at first reading!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Abrovsky. Mr. Karimanski for procedure, okay. First of all, Mr. Abrovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the subject of VAT, as I said yesterday, is extremely important and to know what we are doing and not to be ashamed in front of our constituents, I, Mr President, again poisoning my appeal to you as yesterday. Please ensure the presence of the Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of Finance so that we know what we are doing, because, as you all know, VAT is the main tax that fills the treasury. Are we gonna end up doing something about the VAT, or are we not gonna do it? We need to know this in order to know what to do with this bill "will we change it, will we not change it, do we not want to, do we not? Because in the end, only populist speeches from this tribune will not feed our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u11	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Here you are, Lord Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm addressing you, Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. Please do not allow any more of this tribune, when considering a specific law, the VAT Act, and it is an importer, to have a common political propaganda. No one needs to listen to the general political propaganda of rebirth under such a law. [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] , first. And secondly, it is necessary to remind the MPs who are speaking from this tribune by law, about the separation of the authorities in Bulgaria and who has what scope of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u13	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. [[National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov wants the floor.]] For a statement? Come in for a statement, Mr. Kostadinov. How many minutes exactly do you have? Forty-eight seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u14	Mr. Chairman, very quickly. In the motivation to our bill we have given a plan-account about what would be the losses for the budget, which turned out to be not done well. We predicted four billion, however, according to the Finance Ministry itself, the amount is two billion. On a budget that is close to 70 billion. BGN, this loss would be compensated within just one budget year of inflation, which is unfortunately two-digit in Bulgaria. So in terms of accounts, I think that in this particular case we can trust the Ministry of Finance, even though they are not there, of course. Who are we, some simple National Assembly?! We know what the separation of authorities is, however, obviously one of the authorities does not know it. And as for whether the proposals made by the ARRANGEMENT are unfulfilled and cannot be implemented, I think time will tell. Moreover, there is already such a practice in the European Union "everyone who wants to check can see which are the countries where there is zero food tax and medicines, and since European practice is often mentioned mantra, it would be a good example that is not being taken, which means that once again we see a manifestation of serious political hypocrisy...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u15	Time alone, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u17	Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. I would like to remind you that the bill has been tabled by MPs, so the presence of members of the Council of Ministers is not mandatory. Any other speeches? You, Mr. Mitev, have already made a statement on the bill. There are no other speeches. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 47-254-01-15, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs Vote 187 MPs: for 73, against 66, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. [[Reply from the National Representative Iskren Mitev.]] You've made a statement, Mr. Mitev, you can't explain a negative vote. [[Loud noise.]] Colleagues, please be quiet. That concludes this item on the agenda. Moving on to the next point of the program: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. Please invite the Quaestors to invite Deputy Minister Borislav Ganchev to the Chamber if he is here. We voted yesterday also for this point in the Programme. There has been a report from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Please, Mr. Mateev, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote At its regular meeting held on 20 April 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, No 47-202-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 March 2022. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Emil Dechev, Deputy Minister, and Mr. Alexander Stefanov, State Expert at the Department of Law and by the Administration of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Chonka Stoyanova. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Emil Dechev, who pointed out that he aims to address the growing problems with cybersecurity, and added that this is a phenomenon that does not recognise borders. Deputy Minister Dechev noted that in October 2019 the Ministry of Justice received an official notification letter from the European Commission under infringement procedure, No 2019/2240, concerning non-compliance with the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. Point (b) of Article 9 (4) and point (c) of Directive 2013/40/EU on attacks against information systems. It is noted that, according to the findings of the European Commission in the transposition of Directive 2013/40/EU, Bulgaria did not comply with the required maximum threshold of imprisonment, which should be no less than five years, and this threshold is provided for when the acts under art. 4 and 5 of the Directive have caused serious damage or have been committed against an information system which is part of a critical infrastructure. The bill provides for updating the current legislation of computer and computer-related crimes in the Special Part of the Penal Code (Criminal Code), Chapter Two, Section VIII, Chapter Three, Section VII and Chapter Nine, in order to ensure more adequate protection of the state, business and citizens from unlawful acts affecting their fundamental rights. Mr. Dechev pointed out that the proposed amendments include updating the regulatory framework for countering computer related crimes against intellectual and industrial property under art. 172a, 172b and 173 of the Penal Code, as well as online child sexual exploitation under art. 155b, 155c and 159, para. 3 of the Penal Code with a view to achieving compliance between the public danger of these crimes and the penalties provided for in the law. He noted that crimes against intellectual and industrial property should be seen as acts with a high degree of public danger, not only in the light of the rights and interests of the individual author, which concern, but also in the application of financial losses in particularly large proportions, which affects revenue in the public budget. It has been pointed out that the sexual exploitation of children is increasing and spreading through the use of new technologies and the Internet, which requires updating the legal framework. The Law also provides for a change in the Law on Ecommerce. The proposed bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. A written statement from the Supreme Court of Cassation of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Community Foundation Idealli. The Criminal College of the Supreme Court of Cassation shall give a positive opinion on the bill in the part by which the non-compliance is overcome when introducing the requirements of Directive 2013/40/EU of the Criminal Code, which shall show the applicant's claim for damages, as well as the adoption of para. 4 of art. 319d of it, introducing the qualifying claim against an information system which is part of a critical infrastructure for this crime. The Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria expressed support for the bill, without notes and suggestions for additions in it. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in his opinion sets out considerations to support the change in legislation in the part regulating criminal liability in cybercrime. The opinion stresses that the proposed changes to the Criminal Code are in the spirit of both the Convention on Sexual Violence against Children and the European directive on the fight against online violence and sexual exploitation in 2011. Mrs Kovacheva notes that it is necessary for the Republic of Bulgaria to implement in full the requirements of the European directive on audiovisual media services and to review the criteria for harmful media content for children. The opinion shall also focus on the provision of art. 159 of the Penal Code, where, according to the Ombudsman, it is necessary to include minors in qualified groups in order to meet the requirements of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Child Protection Act. IdealaljuScience Foundation expresses a positive opinion on the expressed political will to change the legislation for differentiation of criminal liability of cybercrime by proposing an increase in the sanctions of art. 155a of the Penal Code in order to strengthen prevention against potential perpetrators of such crimes and to influence them educationally and warningly. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Andrey Mihailov and Krum Zarkov. Mr. Mihailov and Mr. Zarkov expressed support for the bill, noting that in itself the increase in the size of the penalties does not always lead to high efficiency and that some of the provisions between the first and second votes should be refined. Mr. Mihaylov noted that the Penal Code is a system of norms and it can only be effective if it has its systemicity and respect for fundamental principles, so the promotion of sanctions should be well argued and put into the common penal concept. Mr. Zarkov pointed out that the increase in sanctions would lead to a change in the composition of the court which is examining these cases and added that it is necessary to establish a transitional provision to settle pending proceedings. He added that the amount of penalties for crimes against intellectual property should be carefully discussed and analysed. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with 9 votes in favour, without the votes of the Council of Ministers, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, No 47-202-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. There is also a Report from the Commission on Electronic Governance and Information Technology. I would like a Commissioner to brief us on the report. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 47-202-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 March 2022. The Committee on Electronic Governance and Information Technologies at a regular meeting held on 30 March 2022 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of e-government Alexander Yolovski Deputy Minister from the Ministry of Justice Emil Dechev Deputy Minister and Mrs Eva Zhecheva, Director of the Department of Child Rights from the administration of the national ombudsman. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Emil Dechev. At the beginning of the presentation of the Bill, he stressed that the draft amending and supplementing the Criminal Code arose in response to the growing cybercrime phenomenon, which does not recognise borders. The aim of the bill is to respond to growing cybersecurity problems, which are found not only in Europe overall, but in particular in our country. In its 2019 Annual Report, the Europol Cyber Security Centre considered that cybercrime is getting bolder and their focus is shifting to bigger and more profitable targets. In this context, the Cyber Security Centre recommends that Member States implement legislation that responds to the dynamics with which technology is developed. According to statistics, in the first six months of 2019, cyber attacks designed to cause damage doubled, with 50% of the companies under attack being in the manufacturing sector. This forces private sector representatives to make investments in protected backups of data, as otherwise they would lose their data permanently. Also on 14 October 2019 the Ministry of Justice received an official notification letter from the European Commission, No C-2019-62-72, under infringement procedure, No 2019-22-40, concerning non-compliance with the obligation of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 9 (4) (b) and (c) of Directive 2013/40/EU on attacks against information systems. According to the findings of the European Commission in the transposition of this Directive, Bulgaria has not complied with the required maximum threshold of imprisonment provided for in the cases referred to in art. 9 paragraph 4 of the Directive, which should be no less than five years. This threshold shall be provided when acts under art. 4 and 5 of the Directive have caused serious damage and have been committed against an information system which is part of the critical infrastructure. With this bill, the Ministry of Justice is able to meet these requirements and prevent infringements of Directive 2013/40/EU from being incorrectly transposed. During the presentation of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Penal Code, Deputy Minister of Electronic Governance Mr. Alexander Jolovski emphasized that the main purpose of the presented bill is to correctly transpose Directive 2013/40/EU. In essence, the regulation falls entirely within the field of action of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Electronic Governance supports the proposed texts. The bill shall comply with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, according to art. 72, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. A partial preliminary assessment of the impact of the Bill has been applied to the Bill. It records the problems of solving, the objectives that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Penal Code, the options of action, analysis of the impacts and possible effects in the adoption of the Bill. In addition, a reference to the compliance of a draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights under art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on The opinion of the Ministry of Justice through the Directorate-General of the Republic of Bulgaria before the European Court of Human Rights is that the proposed bill does not create any legal prerequisites for conflicting with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. A Reference to the Bill is attached to reflect opinions received in coordination of the bill. People's representatives Alexandra Milcheva, Pavel Hristov, Alexander Nestorov, Mladen Zaprianov, Yordan Mandjukov took part in the discussion of the bill. National Representative Alexandra Milcheva asked a question about statistics, which is presented in the reasons of the bill. According to the reasons, statistics are mainly until 2019, making it difficult to assess whether the proposed changes to the Criminal Code are proportionate to the dynamics with which the number of incidents develops. How many administrations are affected and how many of the incidents go to trial? People's representative Pavel Hristov also raised the issue of providing more up-to-date statistics on cybercrime, e.g. for 2020 and 2021. The situation on a global scale is very dynamic, especially in the last two months. This requires, in particular, attention from lawmakers, how to achieve a successful prevention of these crimes. By making an appropriate commitment to provide statistics on cybercrime for the past two years, Deputy Minister Emil Dechev stressed that in order to achieve better proportionality in response to cybercrime, the bill increases the amount of punishment.. both the form of imprisonment for several computer crimes and the amount of penalty fine. Just because the trend is being taken into account, firstly, to increase the number of this type of crime, and, secondly, that, in fact, as a public danger, this type of crime increases its intensity of public danger, therefore it is necessary to increase the amount of both imprisonment and the amount of fine punishment accordingly. This is the answer to the problem of increasing cybercrime People's representative Aleksandar Nestorov expressed his opinion that raising the sanction does not always lead to preventive effect. Also, the increased penalty does not always have subsequent corrective action. Apart from the need to transpose the directive, which concerns only one of the 14 proposed amendments to the Bill, Mr. Nestorov said that in the reasons he has not seen any other evidence why this bill is necessary to be adopted. Moreover, he also expressed another point, namely that there are many other crimes in the Penal Code and the rise in sanctions would create a problem with proportionality of penalties against other compositions in it. People's representative Mladen Zaprianov noted that it is very important for him to understand from the importers of the bill what part of the crimes committed go to trial and to a verdict? In other words, how will the increased sanctions affect the situation? Deputy Minister of Justice Emil Dechev commented that one of the reasons for this bill is precisely the penal procedure against Bulgaria for infringement of Directive 2013/40/EU. According to the European Commission, the violation of the Bulgarian state is that we have too low penalties for certain types of computer crimes. The idea of this bill is precisely to remove these violations in the transposition of the directive by exceeding penalties. This is also the main objective of the Bill. In addition, Deputy Minister of Electronic Governance Aleksandar Jolovski also stated that the main proposal of this bill is to address a procedure for non-compliance with European legislation and transposition of the Directive. Also, the proposed levels for the increase of sanctions concern compliance with the Bulgarian legal basis as provided for in the relevant directive. Mrs Eva Zhecheva, an expert from the Ombudsman's administration, took part in the discussion. She drew attention to the first three paragraphs of the bill, namely the amendments to art. Art. 155b. Art. 155c. 159. The proposed changes are in the spirit of the Convention on Sexual Violence and the European directive on combating online violence and sexual exploitation. For the Ombudsman's institution, the sexual exploitation of children online is a gross violation of their rights. Ms. Zhecheva said that it is important to increase the duration of the punishment as required by the Convention, but there is another problem which is being investigated in the Ombudsman institution thanks to her partnership with the civil sector. Article 155b and Article 155b 155c is not used The change at the moment is not about law enforcement. Ms. Zhecheva noted that these two members are actually against the sexual abuse of children online and the lure of a child from a pedophile through the information systems. These members of the NKP are not used because there is no education in the prosecution and in the College of Judges. Prosecutors are afraid to press charges against these members. Accusations are not actually filed on the basis of these members, but for possession, where the penalty is one year and no traffic data can be required under the Law on Electronic Communications. In practice, the application of art. Art. 155b. 155c there is no and no caselaw on these articles. Article 159 of the Penal Code, which deals with the production, distribution and possession of pornographic content, is another example of how the mechanisms do not operate. There's not even child pornography there to be punished. Eva Zhecheva called on the members of the committee to really sign measures to increase the digital media literacy of children, parents and teachers. The problem in Bulgaria is extremely complex and perhaps that is why Bulgaria is one of the countries where there is an extremely big problem in the detection of these crimes. In response to Eva Zhecheva's exposition, the public representative Paul Hristov expressed a position that the subject raised is extremely serious and it really requires collective efforts to deal with this problem because child abuse is obviously a serious problem of our society. Unfortunately, statistics show that it is deepening and not being decided. He proposed to draw up a concrete state strategy to deal with these multilayer problems. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 12 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 47-202-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 March 2022
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u21	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Mr. Deputy Minister, if you wish, you have the right to take an opinion. I'm opening a discussion on the submitted bill. Colleagues wishing to make a statement? Mr. Petrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, when I saw on March 18th the bill for amendments to the Penal Code, I said to myself: "Behold, at last those from the ruling coalition have decided to pay attention to the country's criminal policy. "I didn't say it with such a subtle statement, but I am still on the parliamentary stand, I have to rephrase it. When I saw this submitted bill, I said to myself: "Here, attention will be paid to the punishments, as the general penal concept of the ruling coalition was referred to earlier in a sentence in the coalition agreement signed by them. By opening this bill of amendments to the Penal Code, I was hoping to see much more serious sanctions, such as the crimes against the individual, the average bodily damage under art. 129 under the NK, severe bodily damage under art. 128 of the NK, some more serious sanctions, because these are quite mass crimes from the part of domestic crime, which is a scourge for Bulgarian citizens. I was hoping, by opening this bill, to see a lot of higher sanctions, cashier's crimes against property: the thefts under art. 194, robbery under art. 195 and the following from the NK, of which a large part of the Bulgarian population suffers, especially the smaller settlements, where it characterizes domestic crime. I expected to see in this bill for changes in the NK increase in sanctions, for example in crimes against transport art. 343e of the Penal Code. These are: drunk driving, driving after drug use, which, if the drivers of the bill had tried to search for a statistic, for example in the Sofia District Court of Justice, would have seen that the main part of the cases were on crimes against transport. We watch on the news every other day that there are such crimes. I guess the punishments aren't adequate. In fact, I have heretically hoped to see increased sanctions in this bill on crimes against service, so-called crimes by officials with enormous corruption. In fact, I was hoping to see the implementation of the coalition agreement in this regard. 5 p. 3 of Annex No 1 of this coalition agreement as it is written down: "Changes in the NK................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Unfortunately, my fellow Members, these expectations have not been justified, and when I read the Bill, what should I see? Art. 173: "Publishing works of literature on a foreign name, the punishment is increased from two to three years. I'll just remind you that under art. 66 of the Penal Code still falls under the assumption that punishments for up to three years may be postponed with the so-called conditional sentence. I'm looking at changes in cash plagiarism of intellectual property: an increase in punishments from five to six years; plagiarism against industrial design, increased from five to six years; plagiarism against trademarks, increased imprisonment from five to six years. Great fight against crime. If the importers were interested in how these penalties were endured, they would understand that it is too often applied, Mr. Deputy Minister, the rule of early release, when two thirds of the sentence have been endured, and by increasing the total, maximum punishment by only one year, you actually increase it by eight months. For some eight months, you've been scaring the criminal not to commit this crime. What is this fight against crime I can't understand? In general, in this part of the changes we will fight against Turkish fakes by increasing the maximum period of five to six years with the reasons in the Bill to use the SRS. An extremely serious part of the crimes in the Bulgarian state are this.. it seems to the importers that we need to increase, and it is only, again, with about eight months of real punishment for this kind of crime. In addition, the bill provides for an increase in punishments, so-called cybercrime. However, importers may have had to be interested that a large part of these cyber crimes are either being committed outside the territory of the country, or the so-called technical means and means of carrying them out are located outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. So raising the maximum period of five to six years so that we can use the SRS is not really very practical and we do nothing effective, we only justify that we implement and implement a directive. In one respect of the law, I would like to express my opinion, this is the increase of the penalties in Section VIII of Chapter 2 of the NK, namely the crimes in Section "Forbie," where, unfortunately, there is not a single word in the motives of the Law, the so-called crimes concerning pedophile. There it is offered, I repeat, in part of the crimes, for example under art. 155b and in, to increase the maximum period of punishment from five to six years, so that we can use the SRS. However, there is a strange differentiation. The importers of the Bill obviously missed that in art. 151, para. 3 and 4 again have crimes, in this case forcing a minor to mate through a situation in which we are in the position of his supervision. Then I ask you: what is the difference between the severity of the crime under art. 151, para. 3 or 4, on the one hand, which is apparently missed in this bill, and the crime under art. 155c, where we have the solicitation of a minor to copulation or fornication. So when you're forcing someone to commit some other fornication or to show off their genitals, we increase the punishment, and when you force them to mate with you without understanding the property and significance of their actions or because they're under your supervision, we don't touch the punishment, and according to the importers, special intelligence means can't be used. Can someone please come out now and explain the crime to me under art. 151, para. 3 or para. 4 with smaller and more severe consequences for the individual than the crime you are going to reorganize under art. 155 in cashier's? Only to explain it so that, the next time a crime like this happens by minors, he can explain it to the media. Because we understand what you were trying to do about using special intelligence resources, and the easier option was to change art. 3 of the Special Intelligence Means Act, where it says that special intelligence funds can be used in the investigation of crimes under Section VIII Except that, unfortunately, can't moan in this bill. I once told you that when you amended the Law on Execution and Punishment, that you were making some attempts to reform, which unfortunately do not work and there is no way to change it now. I therefore believe that the proposed bill is unmotivated, does not carry out real reform in the criminal policy of the state, its effect will not be the desired or so proclaimed by the importers and I would like to point out that the simple transposition of a European directive, unfortunately, does not fulfil those objectives and wishes that the Bulgarian citizens want. They want us to fight against domestic crime, against crimes that directly affect them, against corruption. That's what they want to see from you, dear rulers! Not with one sentence in the coalition agreement to write that you will fight corruption and finally start fighting plagiarism, the use of a trademark and hacking attacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u23	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Hey, guys, any lines? Tsoncho Ganev, come in, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u24	Mr. Petrov, I just want to say two things. A bill of utmost importance is currently under way, according to the government, as it is on the agenda. At the same time, the hall is almost empty. More importantly, both the importers and the ruling coalition and the really professional conversation that is going by Peter Petrov at the moment, none of the government plans to come and discuss what has been raised as a case and as problems. Absolutely no one! It's a grave silence! We'll probably vote on the Bill in a hurry and you'll accept it. There's nothing wrong with you. We think there is a big problem because only days ago your ruling majority chose a member of the CEM that protects and justifies pedophile.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u25	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u26	And right here...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u27	Colleague Ganev, this is not the topic of this discussion. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u28	...in this House we have a professional conversation in which you said that the draft proposed by you does not want to in any way affect the interests, as the newly elected member of the CEM said, these sick people. No, they're not sick people. Those are sick guys. [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo!.............................)....................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u29	Guys, is there a second line? Mr. Petrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u30	Dear Mr. Ganev, thank you for maintaining the discussion concerning Section VIII "Forbiddenness" because I believe that these crimes are extremely serious. They have extremely severe emotional consequences not only for the victims, for the victims, but also for the entire Bulgarian society, because they are, how can I say, reflected by the media extremely much, but, unfortunately, in the last 30 years we have not seen adequate policy. Once again, there is not a single word, a row in the reasons of the Bill, cashiering these changes for pedophiles, for crimes involving minors and minors, in respect of which instead of putting a 15-year imprisonment, is increased from 5 to 6 years, and actually by 8 months, because they will release him early to do the same things again. I do not understand why, instead of focusing on the really important problems of society, the problems that concern our children, because in Section VIII.................... we are dealing with crimes against our children, and instead of paying attention to legislative changes to motivate them at least in these motives, to go out and defend them here and say how to investigate them instead of trying to touch the NKKK so that we can investigate under the SRS and under the Law, we increase the possibility that foreign manufacturers of sneakers can protect their production. Is that the biggest problem? Did you know that there are no statistics at all how many, on the one hand, crimes against trademarks in the motives of the Bill? There are no statistics, unfortunately, as well as the crimes against our children, who are others affected. How, then, do you expect this House to take a reasoned competent decision to adopt or not this bill, which is justified only by cybercrime, which is shown to be 2049 in 2019. Do you know how many complaints in the state against theft, against robbery, against minor bodily damage, against severe bodily damage? Hundred thousand, 150 thousand! Then where is the focus and where should be the focus of this ruling coalition, which crime to fight the issuance of foreign works, increasing from 2 to 3 years of punishment or average and severe bodily damage, so that people in small settlements who are also our voters can feel one certainty? If there are no police, at least some harsher punishments to frighten the potential workers! You tell me! How many times have I said that there is no criminal policy for these five months by the ruling coalition! Give examples! Unfortunately, there aren't any! Once again, one sentence is your penal policy in the coalition agreement. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u31	Thank you, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u32	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u33	That was a douche bag, Mr. Georgiev. I asked if there were anyone who wanted a second line, and I didn't give her a chance to get the back. If you'd like to make a statement. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, mate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u34	The hacker attack on Bulgarian Posts showed that in fact cybercrime can existentially endanger entire layers of the Bulgarian population, in this case pensioners by delaying the payment of their pensions. So the subject is very up-to-date, and it comes out of what my colleagues at ARC said that we're actually just dealing with cybercrime. Yes, this bill is about cybercrime, and I personally welcome the changes and increased penalties for such, because this is a very important topic and it is yet to become more and more up-to-date. It is no coincidence that we are hearing more and more of the terms "kibermilitary" and "cybercrime" as well as "cyberterroristism." On the other hand, we read that paying the footage of the Ministry of Interior dealing with cybercrime will increase, but here we also have to put a few additional questions: who will train these footage, is there any way to find footage, even if we raise the pay and how can we attract them? Also, how can the judicial system be better prepared to meet new requirements for cybercrime, because let us not be mistaken that even if we lift penalties, if there is no punishment and there is no one to punish them, they will have no effect. So this is the first step, but we're on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Hey, guys, any lines? Peter Petrov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kirilov, since we are going to talk about cybercrime, I would like to point out that before there is a punishment, there should be an investigation, there should be individuals identified and there should be accused. Why are we grabbing the bull by the horns on the wrong side? We are looking to increase the punishment, as you can see, of some minimum size, and we hope that this will scare to such a degree the cyber criminals with this one year increase or three in some of the cases that you of the ruling coalition have anticipated, and we hope that we will fight crime this way. I just shared that a large part of these crimes, unfortunately due to objective reality, are happening and taking place outside Bulgaria, just maybe the consequences are here or the victims are in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as in the case of Bulgarian Post Offices. But in order for these crimes to receive an adequate punishment, we must first establish them, carry out an adequate investigation and find out which persons are guilty, which is where we should touch? Not in the NK and the punishments, but the NKK and the relevant laws that are special and will allow an objective investigation, but in the case of cybercrime, as I say again, some of them are being carried out, unfortunately, outside the territory of the country, acts that allow international cooperation in pre-trial proceedings. That is the problem, not by increasing the penalties and by increasing this directive, by increasing this maximum, we really do not achieve anything, unfortunately. Because you said it yourself: our investigation is lame. It will not be fixed with a magic wand, I assure you, tomorrow will not raise the salaries of these people by 200%, which you are talking about so that they are motivated to stay working in the Ministry, and not as some directors of the respective Directorate will already work in a private insurance agency where they are given adequate pay. This is the example of how we fight cybercrime. The qualified frame must know who I'm talking about, already works at a private insurance agency where he's in charge of cybersecurity. There's no way we can fight cybercrime in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u37	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Is there a second line, colleagues? For the backdrop, Mr. Kirilov, would you like the floor? No. Here's your speech, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is hardly any MP in this room who does not resent child abuse, abuse against the honor and dignity of women. But you, fellow Members of the Revival, since you are so very concerned about the adoption of this bill, have no problems making your proposals, do them between first and second readings, and I am deeply convinced that the Members of the National Assembly will appreciate them in dignity and will accept them. We have no room for unnecessary demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u39	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Hey, guys, any lines? [[Reply of MP Petar Petrov.]] You've got about 35 seconds, actually 20 seconds, Mr. Petrov. And I'll give you another 20. Here you are, Mr. Petrov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u40	Thank you, I'll be brief. Colleague Georgiev, I just pointed out that, unfortunately, some legislative initiatives cannot be corrected between first and second readings, because in order to ensure an adequate investigation of the crimes in part of...................................................................................... 3 of the Special Intelligence Means Act, which indicates which crimes can be investigated by special intelligence means, and there is no way such legislative change can be made between first and second readings because the Penal Code is currently changing. If you have an idea how to do this in black and white, please enlighten me about my short life as a representative of the National Assembly I have not understood how this procedure could happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u41	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Georgiev, would you like a duplicate? No. Guys, are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Penal Procedure, which is importing the Council of Ministers, on 18 March 2022. Please, voting mode. They voted 125 MPs: 110 against 11, abstention 4. The proposal has been adopted and has thus been adopted in the first vote and the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COLLECTIONING THE Importer of the Council of Ministers, 6 April 2022 There has been a report from the leading Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Mr. Mateev, you're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u42	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill for the recovery of claims under consumer contracts, No 47-202-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 April 2022. At its regular meeting held on 13 April 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed a bill for recovery of claims under consumer contracts, No 47-202-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 April 2022. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy and Industry: Mrs. Cornelia Ninova, Minister and Deputy Prime Minister for Economy and Industry; by the Consumer Protection Commission: Mr. Dimitar Margaritov, Chairman, Mr. Ignat Asenov, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Market Affairs and Mrs. Iliana Tsolova, Director of the Directorate for Legal Activities and Legal Affairs and Ms. Diana Kovacheva, Mrs. Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and Mrs. Chonka Kovacheva. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs Cornelia Ninova, who pointed out that it aims to introduce strict and clear rules on the activities of recovery companies. The Minister noted that the Draft Law establishes a register of companies that will carry out recovery activities, requirements are introduced for companies to have minimum paid money capital at least 500 000 levs. and establish the requirement that no persons or persons with pending criminal proceedings be convicted in their manuals. Mandatory registration of recovery companies is envisaged and the register will be kept and kept in the Ministry of Economy and Industry. It is proposed that persons making recovery of claims under consumer contracts eligible for entry in the register receive certificates of activity and be permanently deleted in the event of breach of the requirements of the Law. The bill establishes obligations for the original creditor who will be obliged to notify the consumer prior to the transfer of his claim to a recovery company by providing him with written information on the amount of the claim, its basis, the amounts paid and the person to whom the claim will be transferred. The original creditor will also be obliged to enable the debtor to fulfil his obligation voluntarily within 14 days of receipt of the notification by indicating a bank account or any other means of voluntary payment. The Minister emphasized on the limitation provided for by the Law, under which the amount sought by the consumer cannot be greater than the amount due under the contract with the original creditor. The amount of the claim transferred by the original creditor may only be increased by the interest on late interest, which must not be higher than the legal interest. Ms. Ninova added that charging higher interest rates for late payments and additional fees and commissions will be subject to control and sanctions by the Commission for Consumer Protection. The draft law enables consumers to challenge the obligation or seek assistance from an alternative dispute resolution body. The Law excludes notaries, lawyers, law firms and judicial contractors from the scope of the Law when they carry out claims service activities in the exercise of their profession. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. On the bill were received written opinions from the Association for Consumer Protection, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Civil Platform. Bulgarian Association for Consumer Protection, Bulgarian Association for Leasing and Bulgarian Consumer Credit Association. The Consumer Protection Association considers that the bill does not fully cover the activities of collectors and is not aimed at overall regulation of their activities. In his written opinion, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria supports the legislative initiative in principle and makes concrete proposals to refine the texts. On the civil platform, stand up. The BGS makes reservations to some of the texts by making concrete proposals to improve consumer protection. The National Consumer Protection Association supports the initiative to create a balanced act regulating the business of recovery companies, expressing the need to change the texts. The Association for the Management of Claims supports the adoption of an explicit legislation that fully regulates the activity of acquisition and recovery of claims, pointing to reservations in part of the texts and believing that the adoption of the Bill will violate the principle of legal certainty, and the same relationships will be regulated in different ways and in different regulations. The Bulgarian Leasing Association supports the planned registration production, the proposed requirements for recovery companies and the powers of the Minister of Economy and Industry to exercise effective control by proposing specific editorials of the texts. The Bulgarian Consumer Credit Association shares the need for regulation of the activities of collectors and pays attention to the formulation of some of the norms. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria said that the proposed bill is extremely important and will stop the arbitrariness of the collector companies. Ms. Kovacheva expressed the need for specific legislative proposals to improve the opportunities for better protection of consumers and debtors. Mr. Dimitar Margaritov pointed out that this draft law creates a slender system of rules for collectors to carry out their activities by introducing a number of restrictions and prohibitions to prevent the possibility of affecting the legal and personal sphere of the debtors. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Petar Kulenski, Philip Popov and Atanas Slavov. People's Representative Petar Kulenski said that the Parliamentary Group of "We are continuing the Change" will support the Bill and will, within the deadline for proposals, propose an extension of the existing framework on the consequences of the dispute of claims, a clarification of the procedure of phone calls to debtors, as well as the creation of additional guarantees in relation to the protection of personal data. He added that the requirements for the activities of foreign legal entities and the conditions for the conclusion of compulsory insurance will be refined. People's Representative Filip Popov pointed out that the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) will support the bill, noting that it ends the bad practices of collectors companies by introducing clear rules on who and how they can carry out this type of activity. People's representative Atanas Slavov said that "Democratic Bulgaria" will support the proposed bill at first reading, and added that it is legitimate from the point of view of the goals pursued and necessary, given the numerous abuses by the collectors. He noted that the Bill supports the most vulnerable groups in society, defending their rights and paying attention to the need to find a balance between protecting citizens' rights and the rights related to business turnover. As a result of the votes held on 5 and 11 May 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, with 12 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u43	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. For the procedure please come in, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is for the admission of Mr. Dimitar Margaritov, Chairman of the Commission for Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u45	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote Mr. Margaritov's request for admission. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to introduce Mr. Margaritov. Mrs. Ninova, would you like to comment on an importer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u46	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We're going to discuss a suffered bill, but it's essential. I say hurt because we've been working on this bill for maybe three or four months. We have conducted many public discussions, with consumer organisations, with fellow MPs. You all understand how necessary for years thousands of Bulgarian citizens have been subjected to pressure, racketeering, extortion, without the state being able to adequately propose regulation of the relationship between creditors and consumers. For the first time, this matter is governed by a bill, and I understand that it is not perfect in the opinion of some of the MPs. But I would like to thank and congratulate my colleagues from the parties in the government and the ruling majority that, despite some remarks supported in the committees, the Bill of First Reading is your will, of course, between the first and second, we expect to make proposals for improvements, but for the first time a majority in the committees is found at least so far, which has the courage and courage to stand up against 4 billion. lv. The people who operate on this market are not to be underestimated. For a reason, this bill has not been able to break into any parliament for years. Such attempts have been made and there has always been a way for the various reasons why they should not end the bill. So I thank these fellow Members who support it, and I hope that we will continue at both first and second reading and this bill will become a fact. For the first time in it, we regulate the status of companies that can carry out this activity. So far, anyone who dared to make it out of control by the state could walk in villages and towns and blackmail people. Now there is a clear regulation on who should do it, how it can be registered and what responsibility it is. Secondly, we are setting up consumer rights, which so far have been absolutely defenceless against this will. To the third, and perhaps the most important, honourable Bulgarian citizens, if this bill becomes a fact at second reading, you will not owe more than what you have taken as a credit, other than the legal interest, and no one will have the right to charge fees, commissions, to blackmail you for the irresistible amounts for which you are not responsible. Of course, the Law also provides for severe sanctions for offenders. I also address today the opposition that did not support the Law in the committees. Dear Members of the National Assembly, if we, the Ministry's team, the Consumer Protection Commission, consumer organisations, our colleagues in the ruling majority cannot convince you, I ask you to take 15 minutes of your time, to go to the Secret Office of the National Assembly and read the secret report of the National Assembly on collector companies. This law does not simply regulate the rights of citizens who are being blackmailed and repressed by.....well, I will refrain from epithets about these groups, in this report the problem with collector companies is described as a threat to national security. I can't tell you the details, but each of you can go to the Secret Office and in 15 minutes get to know what kind of gray sector it is, what kind of black money of $4 billion. lv. rotate in Bulgaria on the back of the Bulgarian people, and you will see by name who is doing it. I hope that, once you are familiar with this report, you will reconsider your current position and support the Bill at first reading. Of course, between first and second you have enough time to give objective and reasonable arguments how to make it even better. The objective is a clear order, rules and responsibility for those who collect consumer loans. Secondly, protection of consumer rights. Thirdly, sanctions for those who do not comply with the Law. And fourth, lightening a huge part of the financial flows in Bulgaria. If these objectives of the Law please you, then I appeal to all Members of the National Assembly: please support it today at first reading, we remain open to all reasonable proposals. If necessary, extend the period between first and second readings, to make a more perfect law, but to put order and rules in the state and to protect people. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion. Ms. Kanazireva, then Mrs. Miteva, Tsoncho Ganev also recorded Alexander Ivanov, Philip Popov, Emil Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I don't even know how to start after what you said. You're not up against any four billion. It is only so much that you believe that you really believe that this bill protects people and protects consumers. This bill, I'm sorry to say, you challenged me, is a complete lie. With this bill you are defending a very, very small part of the obligations that are transferred. Outside the scope of this law, you have left the biggest debts of banking, mortgage, consumer, fast loans and everything else that forms over 70% of the debts that are being resold by collector companies. Ms. Ninova, this bill actually protects, monopolises and transforms the collectors in question. Where is the directive which has been adopted and which must settle these relations in full? I'll get some extra after the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u50	Dear colleagues, you have my respect as MPs and institution National Assembly. I have been in this Chamber for many years and I know what it is to fight for the sovereignty of the National Assembly in a parliamentary republic, but I ask you before discussing a law, at least to read it, Mrs. Kanazireva. This law precisely regulates consumer loans, it includes fast loans, on the proposal of our coalition partners include fast loans, so the main thing that it deals with is consumer and fast loans. How can you say that this law does not govern this? The directive relating to banks will be transposed and that is up to you. As for the four billion leva. I've been talking about them for a long time and apparently GERB don't believe me. That is why I have addressed you: go to the Ministry of Industry and read in the Secret Office, you will see the billions of levs, you will see where they come from, you will see where they are going. If you don't believe me, at least trust the Bulgarian services. By the way, thank you to the DANS. Without our initiative on the occasion of this bill, they have developed the report and provided it to your attention, so not only are we claiming, calculated through experts financiers and economists, but also the services justified, precisely, by name and by numbers, have described to you who is stealing from the Bulgarian people, blackmailing them in villages and palanquins. If you don't want to support him, it's your business, but at least not with these arguments. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Are there any lines, colleagues, to Mrs. Kanazireva's statement? I can't see. To speak, Mrs. Iva Miteva. Mrs. Miteva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We will support this bill from the Parliamentary Group. However, under several conditions, we have repeatedly stated them in the working groups in which we have met. Yes, indeed, this law has suffered. I have been working specifically on this law since 2017, including having made inquiries to the Member States under the ECPRD, including the answers, and the arrangements for this activity in other countries. Unfortunately, we have heard here that this law has been working for several months and all opinions are negative. The opinions of the Public Consultation Portal are negative, including all the opinions that have been submitted to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Unfortunately, the subject of this bill is not clear, unfortunately, it is no accident that colleagues are asking the question of quick loans, because indeed, including between lawyers, there is controversy and questions: are quick loans included here or not included? Yes, they are involved, but this conclusion must be reached by interpretation. I believe that under such a law, which protects the rights of Bulgarian citizens, the provisions should be clear, precise, accurate and should not be put to any interpretation. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 of the Law clearly and categorically must determine its subject matter and scope, and here the activity of collecting all claims and their requirements should be clearly included. In accordance with Article 5 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Annex to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 shall be replaced by the text set out in the Annex to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 February 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of approved active substances referred to in Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of approved active substances referred to in Article 4 (1) of I believe that Directive 2021/2167 must be implemented by this law. The Law itself states that public relations from the same area are governed by the same legal act. The directive must be introduced into the Bulgarian legislation by the end of 2023. And it is no coincidence that the MPs have repeatedly put the questions, including the executive, why are the directives introduced at the last moment, why are the directives usually introduced after the transposition period? Here, now, at the moment, we have a basis to work on, we have plenty of time to do this and really make a law that will benefit the Bulgarian voters. We need to think very carefully here whether public service providers should be in this law, whether they should be allowed to transfer claims, whether domestic and public obligations should be here and should be in such a regime and can they be transferred at all, because this is really a very sensitive topic for Bulgarian citizens. I think that we should all go out here really face the voters and say: first of all, the introduction of the directive clearly in this law, second of all, a sufficiently long period between first and second votes. We will propose that this be 28 days so that the MPs have enough time to make their proposals. At this time, we will propose the launch of a working group, but a working group that works at an open door, that is, all the institutions concerned, all those who really know and can, and understand this matter, get involved in an open format and give their proposals so that we can be truly transparent and public to society and say in the end with pride: yes, we have made a law and this law is not populist, this law is not just to take account of it, and this law is really to work. So I call on all MPs to join forces around us to adopt this law as a foundation, but then we all sit down together and start working on introducing the directive and introducing requirements that will really lead to better conditions for Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Replies from Danny Kanazireva and Yavor Bozhankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u54	Dear Mrs. Miteva, I completely agree. Only for quick loans I would like to tell you that a lawyer with great fantasy can decide whether they are included in the scope at all. Not to mention that the said amounts of 4 billion, in fact, are liabilities that have been sold by banks. There are a number of cases, Mrs. Ninova, in which banks cede over 400 million euros, and only one collector's company. In fact, the greatest protection to be given to Bulgarian citizens is precisely those obligations that are transferred. Mrs. Miteva, I ask why the coalition government has chosen this strange legislative approach, given that we have Directive 2021/67, which amends two directives and in which, clearly, in fullness and in detail, the legal framework for credit buyers is in fact laid down? That's November 21st. In other words, enough months have passed since the adoption of this directive. Now something is being done half-way, and it is not even half-way, because the way this bill has been introduced, it only keeps from transferring obligations to the water, heating, telephone accounts.. the smallest part representing the market share of the obligations that are sold, and those that are hundreds of millions and who are harassing hundreds of thousands of people are completely removed from the context and from the scope of this bill. That's why I took the liberty of telling you, Mrs. Ninova, your noisyly advertised bill that you protect consumers is a complete, total lie.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u55	The weather, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u56	You're the only one defending the collector companies in this way, creating them...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u57	And the line not to Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u58	...a monopolistic situation in the country. In no way do you protect consumers from the transferred obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Mr. Bojankov for a second line. [[Reply from the National Representative Yavor Bozhankov.]] The procedure after we run out of cycles, Mr. Bojankov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u60	Okay, I'll do the line. Since Mrs. Kanazireva is making a line in her line in a colleague's line, she is addressing the Deputy Prime Minister, I will do the procedure here. At all, Mr. Chairman, you've missed some things. Mrs. Miteva, when one doesn't want one thing to happen, there are a thousand excuses, it's not full enough, it's just what. It is not true that there are only negative opinions. There are positive opinions. And those who are negative have specific criticism on a specific text. According to the philosophy of the Law, no opinion denies, firstly, the need for such a legislative arrangement. Currently, the state of this market is like in the Wild West. Some people without regulation in the small hours of the day, without information about the debtor, terrorize it, including physically, with addresses, with phone calls and collect for 100 levs. It's a thousand levs debt. Those are the main part of the complaints to the Ombudsman, tens of thousands of complaints. Therefore, of course, the Ombudsman supports the Bill. We are currently debating the philosophy of the Law. There's no question about the philosophy of the Law. It has three objectives: the user to be informed about this objective is achieved; the user to be protected in substance is achieved; these entities to obtain legal regulation, no one to be harassed and this is achieved. From then on, details are a debate and the subject of a debate at second reading which text and exactly how it will be refined. Then we can have the debate. Yes, consumer loans are included in this bill, but if you think they are not clearly defined enough, you can make the relevant proposals in this direction, but deny the Law in principle at first reading, this, in my opinion, crosses the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u61	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Is there a third line, colleagues? I won't. For the back, Mrs. Miteva? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u62	I don't know what to say to Mrs. Kanazireva. I think I made it clear in my speech at first. Mr. Bojankov, first of all, you obviously haven't read all the opinions. The Ombudsman's opinion is public. It also disputes the subject matter of the Law and disputes that the directive is not transposed. The opinion of the Association for Consumer Protection is in the same way, so let's carefully read all the opinions. At least I've read all of them and I know what's written in each of them. Regarding whether or not we want this law to become. I have made it clear from the beginning that, yes, we will support this bill in a second vote, but under certain conditions and I think that the position of We have stated this position since our first meeting. It is no accident that the Law slowed down a little over time, for which even on Facebook I was accused by the Deputy Prime Minister that we are stopping and limiting the rights of Bulgarian citizens. No, we're not stopping anything, but we want, when a law is passed, this law to be a working law. We want to stop adopting laws that only mark some activity and ultimately do not result in real results. So we're here to support this bill. We will work under this law, and it will work actively. We will initiate this working group so that what we really need and what is the requirement of the directive is introduced and indeed a second vote can be congratulated by a working law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. To speak, then Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u64	It's not Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u65	We have to alternate groups, Mr. Ivanov. Then it'll be you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u66	Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Ninova, first of all, to congratulate you for coming here to defend the bill you submitted to the Chamber, because just moments ago there was another bill of the Council of Ministers and none of the ministers pleased to come to the National Assembly. However, it is important to note that you are always here when you need to attend. Now specifically on the proposed bill. It is important to clarify that collectors are mainly and solely engaged in the collection of telecoms, banks and fast-credit companies. In so proposed by you bill art. 2 directly deleted the credit institutions in the face of the companies for quick loans and banks and there are only one telecoms left. It is a question of interpretation, as Mrs. Miteva pointed out just now, whether quick loans are credit institutions or whether they remain only financial institutions. For us, the regulation of this is extremely important. That is, the Bill is extremely important, but in this form, in which you propose it to the National Assembly, it is mildly scandalous and does no work except that you will have the opportunity to explain how you will regulate the market. But it doesn't really work that way, because by removing the credit and financial institutions, the telecoms remain. And if they have any problems related to banks and quick loans, they will simply continue to be pressured, disturbed and in any way, to put it mildly, pressured to make any payments. So in this version, in which you offer it, this thing should pass through the Law on Obligations and Contracts, in which you can clearly and accurately regulate the activities of collector companies. That's where he's supposed to be. Otherwise, a law, which is proposed with the title of the Law on the Recovery of Claims under Consumer Contracts, is extremely important, but not in the version in which you propose it. Because in the way you propose it, there is one huge question: why does it even need it in this form?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines? I can't see. To speak, Mr. Philip Popov. You have the floor, Mr. Popov, and then there's Mr. Alexander Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand the stubbornness of some of the pre-speakers of the so-called opposition. After all, four billion is four billion, but that's it. This law actually governs the status, powers and relationships of the so-called debtor companies. Billions on an annual basis are running through these companies. So far, this matter, although it concerns virtually every second Bulgarian citizen, as it became clear billions a year, has not been settled. This emptiness in legislation allowed some of these companies to openly harass, to racketeer Bulgarian debtors using some of the darkest ways such as ringing in the small hours of the day, damaging and damaging the authority of the debtor in front of his colleagues, family, neighbors. From this point of view, not to mention that sometimes there are also honest threats to the lives and health of the debtors, there are also such events, the Bill is putting an end to this. It regulates this matter by protecting the authority and legal rights of debtors such as: when, at what hours it is allowed to call on the phone; it introduces a requirement for who can participate in the management of these companies by giving high criteria in terms of ethics and morals of such people, the natural persons involved in the management of these companies; it regulates both the transparency and the publicity of these companies, their activities; the adoption of this legal necessity, i.e. obligations in a legal European state, for which it claims to be Bulgaria. This law ultimately protects both our national security and the rights, I repeat, to every second Bulgarian citizen. It is therefore necessary that he be accepted at first reading. His philosophy, his main violets are clear spoken here by this tribune. Of course, between first and second reading should be refined and perhaps some texts, but the adoption of this law at first reading is our obligation and necessity, because in the years back this matter was not settled. Now, for the first time, someone has dared to face these four billion, much of them derived by one, not to mention criminal methods and methods. It is the responsibility of the National Assembly to regulate this matter in order to protect the rights and legitimate interests of Bulgarian citizens and economic operators in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u69	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Danny Kanazireva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u70	Dear Mr. Popov, with all due respect, I have in no way said or stated that there is no need for such a bill. No, on the contrary, he does. Bulgarian citizens should be protected, but with what you have imported, in no way give them any real legal protection. Check, please, between first and second reading the share of the obligations you settle. They're about 16%. The remaining 80 per cent and more per cent remain outside the scope of the Bill. What we want is simple and clear: all these obligations that really form the billions in question, to find a place in this bill, so that by adopting one such law, he can give full and detailed protection to debtors. The way the bill is introduced, you only and only legitimize the activities of large collectors who buy millions of debts from banks. The easiest and simplest is to give yourselves more time and really make it possible to introduce the directive, which is already a fact to cover all these obligations, because so introduced, this bill only resembles a lobbying bill that legitimizes the activities of large collectors companies. You didn't even consider the possibility that the debtor would buy his own debt first to have the right to buy it, and at a price at which the collector's companies buy it. Apart from that, the explicit ban on the use of harassment, coercion, including physical force, I ask: were they so far allowed? They're still banned. It's a wishful thinking text and I won't even call it cheap PR.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u71	The weather, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u72	It does not settle any legal relationship. Just give me one way to protect you. Just one legal tool, and I'll take it. There isn't one. A desirable character. We're doing something, but we're not doing anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u73	I'll take your word for it, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u74	Thank you. I'm sorry. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u75	Thank you, too. Colleagues, is there a second line to Mr. Popov's statement? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u76	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Kanazireva, when you are so concerned about a better bill, 10 years ago why didn't you bring it in? Why was it convenient for you not to have this matter sorted in any way? For ten years, you've ruled, at all, hal haber, no action in relation to this matter. This bill is now being introduced. You have the absolute opportunity between first and second, if you are sincere in your speeches, to make your proposals. Please don't speculate here, from this tribune, with 16%, 80%, I don't know where you get these numbers and these numbers at all. How many percent have we settled in this bill? On the contrary, it has clearly and categorically happened here from this tribune and from the body of the bill itself, that the rights and legitimate interests of debtors, of Bulgarian consumers against this racket and this repression, which they have been exercised for years. And those 4 billion that turn annually, for which you have not taken absolutely no measures to protect the Bulgarian citizens for more than 10 years and now here you come out the targets in white. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u77	Thank you, Mr. Popov. For a statement? Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Alexandrova. For speech are written and in this order I will give the floor: Alexander Ivanov, Petar Petrov, Emil Georgiev and Vladimir Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, my procedure is with you. Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u79	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u80	...please, when colleagues speak lies from this tribune, intervene and take away their word. I don't know if he's familiar or not, but at the forty-fourth National Assembly, at the end of the forty-fourth National Assembly, a similar bill...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u81	To me the procedure, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u82	Yes, to you, and I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u83	Sounds like a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u84	I'm telling you the evidence of this. He has been subject to public consultation with the Council of Ministers at the Ministry of Justice for more than six months, which has reached an extraordinary agreement...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u85	Mrs. Alexandrova, this is a statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u86	...with all interested parties. A very good bill, but it's just that the time of the forty-fourth National Assembly didn't come so that we could...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u87	I'll take your word for it, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u88	But please interfere, it's your commitment not mine.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u89	Mrs. Alexandrova, you have the right to speak, do so so that Mr. Popov can take a line. You're taking the procedure. How do I get involved? We're following a cycle of procedures. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor. Mr. Georgiev, I alternate groups. As I explained earlier to Mr. Ivanov. You've been recorded, please wait your turn. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u90	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With regard to the examination of the first vote on that bill tabled by the government, I allow myself a brief opinion. The bill presented for the recovery of claims under consumer contracts in this version, colleagues, in no form meets the expectations of society. And a lot of colleagues showed up before me. Furthermore, the bill does not comply with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts and Decree No 883 of 24 April 1974 on its application. But first of all, to stress once again that it does not meet the expectations of society and does not change the legal situation of the debtor in any way in the majority of the obligations that have occurred in society. Last but not least, although the project attempts to transpose Directive 2021/2167, Directive 2008/48 and Directive 2014/17/EU, this experience has undoubtedly failed and, in substance, the shortcomings relate to the following main problems: First, colleagues, under the rules for the transfer of claims under consumer contracts at present, according to the provision of art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts, which applies in all contracts and is directly relevant precisely to the situation in which one claim passes from one person to another's patrimony, the creditor has an obligation to notify the debtor of the intention or the transfer already made. However, it is unclear by the provision to be applied whether the relevant strict formal requirement will contribute, in particular in view of the fact that, above all, the recipients are persons who are in breach of their contractual relations regardless of the causes of this. The proposed change in this respect in no way, fellow Members, does not significantly improve the legal situation of debtors. The situation of certain terms, which are sharply used and used in a vague manner, is also disturbing in the presented bill, which sets such socially important objectives. In particular, it is a matter of art. 8, para. 3, p. 1 and 2, the term "invitations' used, colleagues. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the presented bill there is no clear definition of what these invitations are and which part of the many electronic communications channels is concerned. This is a direct violation of the generally accepted rules in lawmaking and in particular the provisions of art. 37, para. 3 of Decree No 883. The purpose of the prohibitions laid down in art. 8, para. 3 and 4 of the Bill. According to her, the debtor can only be contacted through a phone call nine times a month. It is entirely unfounded to keep their phone calls all debtors for a period of at least five years. It is unclear whether these conversations will have any evidence value in court at all and why the procedure and responsibility of both parties is only aggravated. This will cost enormous financial costs, which, unfortunately, will most likely aggravate the debtor's condition and an extremely restrictive requirement, of which the least of which does not solve any problem, especially the debtors. Finally, but on one of the first most important, are the rules established in art. 10, para. 1 and 2. The State wishes unduly and even in spite of the explicit agreement between the parties, which is a normal contract, to be valid, to intervene and to change private relations between legal entities. It is unclear who will pay the amount for all additional costs incurred which are a direct and immediate consequence of the default of the debtor. Interest for fun is extremely insufficient, especially in view of other applications from its reduction, which rather looks like populism proposed by the Council of Ministers. Again, there is no clear legal framework for the many hypotheses that are normally found in the practice of recovery of claims. The second of the main problems, colleagues who make an impression in the proposed bill, is on the management, servicing of claims and the requirements for entry into the single register. I believe that this project aims to fictitiously transpose the European directives, and the real objective is to allocate the market only to selected companies and to establish a monopoly. Although some cosmetic changes have been made so as to meet the expectations of public discussion, these changes turn out to be entirely palatial. The approach to introducing a capital requirement of 500 thousand. lv. In no form is justified by the Bulgarian economic reality and again for me to tell you, colleagues, it is really the contraction of this market where a monopoly can be established. Why is this monopoly sought to respond to the importers. Regarding the control and administrative legal provisions, colleagues, it cannot fail to be noticed that the bill, although it meets, once again stressing the formal requirements of its discussion, the public conducted such, albeit briefly, as we said, there was a Bill in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, which had six months of public discussion, had greater completeness in the scope. I don't know why this bill wasn't taken as a base, as a foundation, and put in by the current government. I think they would have achieved a wider scope of this proposal for the law and also met the expectations of indebted persons to a greater extent. Despite their desire to regulate certain personal relations, colleagues, another example in terms of brokers, tenants, remain unsolved by the legislature. They are quite an essential part of this relationship. The sector generates huge amounts between brokers and tenants and it remains still outside the scope of this bill. As pointed out by colleagues from the government and from the opposition, in art. 2 are excluded, very conveniently, one part of the companies and remain only really those obligations that form about 17% of all this turnover. Let's just say it doesn't solve the problem with big companies, with those who have really... Only collector companies are left to collect the receivables of telecommunications, the water companies, those that are the insignificant part of all this turnover. The quoted data for 4 billion is disturbing. I encourage Bulgarian services, Bulgarian law enforcement authorities when there is information from Bulgarian citizens who are harassed and under some duress are collected collector claims, with the most strictness of the law such signals and such irregularities to be considered and persecuted with all the strictness of the law, but not to try to make cheap PR on someone's back, but through the back entrance to actually see the introduction of a monopoly in this sector of selected companies. It will either be law enforcement for everyone, or it would be better not to bother at all to do legislative work just to fill the work of the National Assembly. In conclusion, colleagues, this project seeks a solution to the problems through State intervention in private relations, in which there is nothing wrong as long as they are equally regulated for all. Furthermore, the project creates more ambiguities than solving the problems between the debtor and the creditor, repeatedly highlighted by the predecessors. The proposed legal framework is incomplete and in no form will contribute to achieving the objectives set by the Bill. I believe that when it is implemented in this version, it will lead to numerous disputes in practice. Colleague lawyers will agree with me perhaps, which will make it even more difficult to implement it, which should therefore be rejected for us or tabled, as we said, this passed public discussion at the Forty-fourth National Assembly, which has much more opinions and which has a greater scope of action and enforcement. Without entering into specific texts more, colleagues, the many shortcomings cannot be sanitized in our view between first and second readings, but nevertheless, if you accept this bill today, we naturally reserve the right to submit so many proposals between first and second readings that are within the scope of both the Bill, which was prepared within the framework of the Forty-fourth National Assembly then by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Replies "Peter Kulenski, Danny Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you are talking about monopolies, introducing monopolies with this bill, but I want to remind you of a fact. During the management of GERB in 2020, in the midst of the pandemic, the Bulgarian Development Bank, which in principle has to finance the small and medium-sized business, granted a loan of 75 million. lv. To a collector's company. So I would like to ask this fact that during the management of GERB, the BBI granted such a loan of this size, is there any connection to the fact that you do not want to support the Bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u93	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Mrs. Kanazirawa, you have the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u94	Mr. Ivanov, you have raised a lot of questions, and not just you, but all colleagues, about incompleteness and ambiguities, vague legislation, but supposed consumer protection. I will answer you very briefly with two sentences. Firstly, this bill for vague reasons was subject to public consultation only 14 days, not 30 days. Why were you in such a hurry? Secondly, colleagues, if you are so afraid of the collectors' companies and are against them, how did so cordially the collectors' companies gladly embrace your bill and accept it?! Colleagues, the answer is clear: there are official data. Numbers have been mentioned several times. What I said and said is that they are, in fact, according to the data of the Association for the Management of Claims. For 2020 only. The debt to banks is...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u95	What's the line, Mrs. Kanazireva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u96	I answer to Mr. Ivanov because he's talking about distribution of duties by numbers. ...are 44% of banks that are outside the scope of this bill, 28% of non-banking financial institutions. Mobile operators are only 16%. So, colleagues, whatever beautiful words you say from this tribune, it is clear to everyone that this bill is a lobbying bill for the benefit of collector companies and not against them and for the benefit of consumers. Thank you. And I'm gonna say it again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Is there a third line, colleagues? No. For the doppelganger, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u98	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members replicating! Mr Kulenski, it is a pity that no one in your parliamentary group, especially as the majority of the government, has made a statement on the substance of this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u99	There's a record, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u100	Okay, I'd love to hear it then. Also, Mr. Kulenski, you may ask yourself the question why was only 14 days uploaded for public discussion this bill in all transparency that is aimed at management, where there is nothing good about it? Perhaps in your next speech, I would be more interested to hear why the fast credit companies are the biggest bullies, it is about the most large funds. Agree to agree that here the telephone operators are talking about some delayed bills for 100 BGN 200. Tell me, Mr. Kulenski, in your statement, why didn't you include them in this bill? This is the more important question, and everything else is to move the air. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Also, Mrs. Kanazireva, I agree that only 44% are included in the financial institutions. So, indeed, these 17% that the government has focused on, I smell the introduction of a heavy monopoly on the market and the introduction of restrictions on who can participate in this market. A market we know when it lightens up when there are more participants in it and on a purely market principle they are rejected. A pure legislative initiative to make is really reproaching to me and should not, however, be encouraged, but it should be noted and we are doing so as opposition. About the work of the Bulgarian Development Bank, Mr. Kulinski, we will talk a lot. I will invite you to the Economic Commission, and this afternoon there is a Budget Commission, to which the current management of the Bank will respond to what is the financial situation of the Bulgarian Development Bank and whether, after you have introduced the change in it, it does not start to deteriorate its loan portfolio and does not start working on, so to speak, bad financial parameters than it has been before.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u101	Mr. Ivanov, this is not the topic in the current discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u102	Everything else was in the election program, and now that you're in charge, it's nice to talk about the current times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For Mr. Svilensky's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Ninova, dear colleagues! Mr. Chairman, I will do a procedure not in the manner of conduct, because everyone who does this procedure tells you how you should stop the speaker who speaks false things, and you have no way of knowing what the speaker will say. Therefore, my procedure is in the manner of speaking. Colleagues, come on, please read the Law and then speak up! Five people said 50 false things, and this is being watched from 15 cameras right now, and they're probably going to show it on TV tonight. Come on, please read the law. There is a time between first and second reading and for second reading keep your criticisms, but to say crazy things is simply not fair to those people who really suffer from this way of collecting credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u105	Mr. Svilensky, please take a statement, as this is essentially a statement. Otherwise, we understand your procedure and it is your colleagues to adhere to the text of the Law. Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is almost identical to that of my colleague Svilenski, and here is discussed at first reading this bill. These statements of yours have absolutely nothing to do with the Bill, and you haven't even bothered to read it and get into the Bill, and you're making some suggestions here from this tribune...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u107	To me, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u108	Mr. Chairman, please address these MPs who were trying to make these suggestions a little while ago. Tell them you can tell, it's very obvious when you speak here from this tribune on behalf of the collectors' companies and on behalf of these 4 billion. I can tell! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u109	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here you are, Peter Petrov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members in this House! Dear Minister, I admire that you have come to defend your bill. The statements on the Philosophy of the Bill will do one of these. Dear Members of Parliament, I will give you an example of how this bill will protect debtors' rights. A procedure has been set up in art. 7, para. 2 with which the debtor may challenge the claim claimed by the buyer of the claim. What's going on? Suppose, Madam Minister, that you are this new collector entered in your register by 500 thousand. lv. Statutory capital. I am in debt and you inform me that I owe you 100 levs, and I do this challenge under para. Two by proxy. What happens, colleagues, from now on, unfortunately, the bill does not say. I'll tell you what's going on. Because the collector bought not a single claim to write it off as challenged by the debtor, nothing that is 100 BGN because he bought several thousand claims and what should he do?! He must file a lawsuit to establish the debt of this claim and shall be initiated. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to have to ask you to correct me if my accounts are wrong. First of all, the state fee for filing a claim for these 100 levs. At least 50 BGN, as the collector is a legal entity. £240. with VAT for legal remuneration for the collector's lawyer.. became 310 BGN. Forensic and accounting expertise to calculate and determine the dueness of the claim - 200 BGN, and how many have become - BGN 610 BGN, BGN 5 for an executive sheet 615 BGN. We then go to a private judicial contractor and in the best case in the case of voluntary execution and formation of executive proceedings is BGN 84. They're up to 700 BGN. Plus £240. with VAT for legal remuneration of the collector for the formation of a performance case about 940 BGN. Is the bill coming up?! Mr. Chairman, if I'm right, let's say it's 1,000 leva. So from 100 leva. If the debt becomes 1000 leva.? Who finally pays the bill for that 1,000 leva?? The debtor of this new bill. Are we protecting the debtor in this new bill in any way? Do they cry every day debtors in the media that for debt of 200 leva. They wonder how their debt has grown from 200 to 1000 leva.? Did I give you an example? How do we help debtors with this new bill and how do we protect their rights? On the other hand, the collectors. Okay, let's assume that this bill settles and includes quick loans. The quick loans are given by some financial institutions which are registered in a special register under art. 3 of the Finance Institutions Act by 1 million lv. Statutory capital. However, they cannot work on this new bill because they must also register in the new register of the Ministry of Economy as persons with a minimum of 500 thousand. lv. Statutory capital. Let me ask you another question. I'm in debt, and you're a collector's company and I don't have the money to pay your debt, but I have a relative who wants to buy from your collector's company this debt of mine, this debt of mine, or, for example, my business partner, and I owe it to him and not to you and you won't bully me about this new bill. But suppose I don't want to communicate with your firm, which is registered in this register. You know what, guys? My relative or my business partner has no right to purchase from you this debt and this obligation because it is not registered in this register by 500 thousand. lv. Statutory capital and cannot purchase from you this obligation to me because the Law explicitly states that such obligations can only be sold from among the persons who are part of this register but not among others. Then where does the free enterprise, honourable colleagues of BSP go, and we will talk about the philosophy of the Law? Where does the Commercial Law and the free transfer of claims, honourable Members, and will only be able to transfer it to persons who are registered in this register? I understand the statements from a while ago that part of the disputed reality is essentially, but let's still talk about the purpose and spirit of the Bill that it, unfortunately, does not protect debtors in the first place and, secondly, does not regulate the activities of collector companies at all. I gave you a proper example of where and how the due fees and expenses will go. Dear ruling coalition, if you want to help debtors, you must only do one thing and submit only one bill to a bill to create a Law on the bankruptcy of the natural person. The only May country from the European Union in which there is no bankruptcy of the natural person is Bulgaria. This is what Bulgarian citizens and such protections want, not to regulate the activities of some collectors, and only those that will be successfully entered in the new register in the Ministry of Economy. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u111	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. First line from Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u112	Thank you. Dear colleague Petrov, you drew an interesting picture. First, the debtor's claim is his own right, and whether he will challenge the claim or not, he shall judge it. If he considers that he does not owe this claim, of course he will challenge it and then all these fees and expenses, where you have just described them, will be for the collector's company. Yeah, that hurts! However, pό hurts when you have one obligation of 100 leva. And you haven't been informed that you already owe another person and that 100 leva. Suddenly it's 200, 300, 500 leva. You have no idea on what basis you owe these amounts. This matter so far has not been completely settled and this has happened in a very large number of cases. One claim "ceded" of such a collector company and it, taking it, becomes triple, petorno and bullying starts day and night by phone, visits. With regard to the possibility of transferring claims and specifically for this kind of claims, yes, borrowing is an old profession not only in Bulgaria, but throughout Europe, however, it is illegal, so do not protect the interest rate here from this tribune. With regard to the Law on the bankruptcy of individuals, this topic is sufficiently discussed, it is taken over by our parliamentary group, by BSP in the years back. It is a serious and difficult topic, and in Germany this topic has been discussed for five years for the bankruptcy of individuals, because it has attracted a number of consequences in the legal and economic sphere, of course. So this topic is not abandoned, on the contrary, debating [[the President signals that time has run out]] , discussed and sought the most correct legislative solutions in terms of the bankruptcy of individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u113	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any other lines, colleagues? No. Colleagues, I'd like to inform you that at 11:30, I'll give you half an hour's rest. Mr. Petrov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Popov, since criticism was made that some of the colleagues had not read the Bill, I took the liberty of reading it. Speaking of the debtor's notification and the debtor's concern, let me just say that, in so far as I was able to understand, in this bill, we have two official notifications to the debtor from the party, first, to the seller. Once, he informs him that he owes the amount and can voluntarily pay it within 14 days duly. He then informs him that he's transferring the claim. Then we have a third notification from the buyer of the claim, which says I've already bought this claim, pay me. And now, let's talk again, let's get to the point. I owe some money, I don't have to pay it, obviously my credit is non-serviceable, I didn't pay it for one reason or another. I am informed by my creditor that I have a voluntary 14 days to pay them. Well, I don't want to pay them for one reason or another, I'm getting rid of my property. If I didn't do it, the second time he informs me again, sells the claim and says I sold the claim and you already owe it to another person. If I didn't cover my property, I didn't get rid of it, now's my second chance to do it. The third time I've been informed by the person who has acquired the claim, and he tells me now that you owe me money, that much and that much. And I tell him accordingly: what if I owe you this money, this is the third time you've informed me. Obviously, I don't want to pay them willingly. If I wanted to pay them willingly and had the opportunity to pay them voluntarily, where to get them, I would have paid them to the first seller. You can let me know as much as you want, you can bother me any legal frames you want, and I don't have the money to pay them. So, colleague Popov, the problem of settling the relationship between debtors and collectors is not the notification.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u115	There are other things in the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u116	The problem is the need to create a voluntary opportunity for both parties to talk, not through official notifications, first twice by the seller, who, by taking his money, no longer cares, but twice he has warned the debtor if he can hide his property so as not to pay the person who acquires the receivables. A mechanism must be created and it does not become easy for the person who owns and has purchased the claim to speak and to understand voluntarily with the debtor and not have to judge him or warn him three times that he owes some money, to be able to communicate with each other. Such a procedure must be established and it is precisely the difficult time of this thing to create an effective mechanism to avoid any possibility of taking legal proceedings and inflating fees and charges at the expense of the debtor, as well as to avoid certain procedures that are not justified and under the GPC, twice, three times to inform the debtor of the same thing where he obviously has neither the opportunity nor perhaps the desire to pay. That's what needs to be done and done. Unfortunately, I'm not the one to tell you, an honourable ruling coalition, how to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u117	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Here you are, Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u118	Dear Bulgarian citizens, many arguments have been heard against the Bill "some of which I will repeat to leave you an opportunity to assess what this is about. Do not enter a register of companies that collect receivables. Let's leave it at that. Do not know who comes into your home, on what grounds he invades you at night and beats you for 100 levs, because, you see, it was an intervention of the state in free relationships. We have seen how far these free relations have come so that half of the Bulgarian people will cry out of violence and racketeering. A second argument would not be notified, that is, that man would not know who would come to him and what he would want, because, if you see, he would sell his house and no one would be able to collect anything. So let's leave now, you don't know who's coming into your house, what it's about and what it wants you for, no one needs to notify you, invade and start, because, you see, when you're notified, you can sell your car and you can't get your money back. We will think a little bit, so there is no point in legislation in Bulgaria, leaving everything to the Wild West and doing nothing. Third, let's willingly let them fix their relationship. Well, my colleague, to voluntarily beat them in the cities. To get here, obviously, voluntary relations didn't work out. You know how many thousands of people complain that they don't volunteer. And now, dear Bulgarian citizens, I have made a comparison, listening to the speeches and I will try to explain it simply. So far and from now on, if the law is passed, what will happen? So far, each creditor has transferred your claim as a second party, he to a third party without you knowing what is happening. Suddenly there is a third person, someone, and a physical person may be a person, not legal in your house and tells you that you have taken 100 leva. Before, but now you have to give me 1000 leva, otherwise it's hard to wait for you. That was the practice so far. What happens now? Before transferring the debt to the second and third parties to you, he will inform you in writing and will tell you: Dear Mr. Georgiev in your home has the right to come Mr. Petrov, to whom I have transferred the claim and he cannot ask you for anything more than the 100 levs you have taken credit for. If he wants you 101, that's illegal. That's what it'll be like from now on if the law is passed. Secondly, so far no one has invited you, dear Bulgarians in debt, to voluntarily fulfil your obligation. Henceforth, if the Law is passed before someone arrives at your door, you will receive an invitation for voluntary execution. I mean, you'll know what's waiting for you from now on if you don't pay. Third, so far, all legal and natural persons, including violence that no one knows who they are, could come to your house to harass you. From now on, if the Law is passed, you can only certain individuals who are public, uploaded publicly, in a register you can check them, you have to meet conditions and requirements and you will be protected that if someone comes outside of those persons, you have the right to expel them from your house. Next, so far, no one can argue anything. Petrov comes and tells you: give me 1000 leva. You have no right to question anyone verbally or in writing. From now on, you will have the right to challenge this claim. Until now, you could at any time 24/7 and at 3:00 p.m. call you on the phone, hang the sign of the disgrace at the entrance of the block, go to your employer at the firm and say that this person should give his money, hold it off his salary, that's so far. That can't happen from now on. They can only call until 8:00 in the evening and only from 7.0 in the morning under certain conditions, most often every two days once. You can't stick at the entrance of your block, you can't go to your employer to push it if the law is passed. You could have taken 5 leva by now. and it turns out that you owe 500, without having any idea how they became 500, because in the chain the second, third and fifth have charged a commission for collecting the claim each has put 100 leva each, sent their power to harass you and took for it from your debt, which is small. From now on, you will owe nothing more than what you have taken plus legal interest if the Law is passed. So far, these collections of claims are not obliged to keep any documents going back and forth around the country and do not keep any documents, do not report to anyone and you have no proof to seek your rights. Someone told the Ministry of Interior to take responsibility for these. Okay, you're signaling the Home Office against who? Someone came into town and behaved like a feudal. Against who? You don't know who this guy is, you're neither informed nor you have the right to question, nor do you have the documents to claim you. From now on, these two are required to keep the contract for five years, correspondence between creditors and debtors, evidence of payments and so on, five years for which a report is sought. These documents can serve any Bulgarian citizen to defend his rights. So far, there's no clarity on which companies, how many, where they are, do they have a headquarters, do they have capital? There is nothing like this in the current legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u119	Well, they're gone, of course, you're running around the directives.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u120	Now there will be a public register, there will be conditions to meet these companies, and I will tell you what. Another difference, because so far in these companies or individuals who come to your homes may have been convicted, there may be people with pending proceedings for serious crimes. From now on, it is imperative that these companies in the management, in fulfilling their rights, do not be convicted and that there are no pending cases against such people. In other words, criminal organizations can no longer come to the door of your home and bully you with force methods. So far, all these companies have acted without having any responsibility for their unlawful actions, none at all. Now, in addition to the conditions set out here, they must also have insurance.Professional responsibility.That is to say, for their misdeeds towards you, dear Bulgarian citizens, you will have insurance to pay you all the damage you have done physically and morally. Well, is that enough? Is that a small change? And if one of the colleagues from GERB came out and told me on what basis did you calculate 17% of the debts? Where do you guys see this stuff? Where did you see that there were no quick loans? Where did you see that there were no users, so you're only talking about plumbing and telephone services. One says that's 17%, another says that's 16%. Where did you see these things? Basically all things are settled without percentages and without groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u121	Easy, you missed Oresharski.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u122	Another argument I heard. Ladies and gentlemen of GERB, 10 years you have managed and we know what laws and how you imported them. I will read to you how this law was introduced on dates and I want you to remove, if you can, by the end of the day a law proposed by GERB, which has passed these procedures. I'm saying this because you're questioning the time limit for discussion. It's only been 14 days, you see. Until tonight, please disprove me! Take out a law of GERB, which has gone through the following, now I will read them to you on dates. Even one law at all the national meetings where you ruled and were a majority, if you can, take me out, including when you ran in a coalition with partners. I thank our partners now for what we've been through together. On 6 January this year, a meeting of the Expert Council on Political Justice of the ruling coalition. When did you have expert advice with coalition partners and discuss something with the Patriots, for example, or with the Reformers?! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] January 6th. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, I'm just telling you what a little coalition culture is. Secondly, on January 20th, a meeting in the Ministry of Economy and Industry with the non-governmental sector was held with a joint declaration of support for the bill. Edna was against it because she's representing lawyers who run the collector's business, and I can prove that to you. All other consumer organizations............................................................................................... On 25 January this year we are assigning a comprehensive assessment of the impact of the Law and preparation of a procedure for submission to the Council of Ministers. Impact assessment. Get me a law of GERB, passed an impact assessment! On 4 February the launch of public consultations on the portal of the Council of Ministers for 14 days. On 8 February a meeting of the Minister of Economy with the Ombudsman's team and a discussion of the Ombudsman's remarks on the bill. On 8 February following this meeting, the sending of the package of documents for coordination with all ministries in the country, which are related to Finance and others. On February 18th, a letter to the BNB on the directive you are constantly talking about. Don't think we missed BNB's competent opinion. On March 10, the original version, with comments from the public consultations and coordination with the ministries, was submitted to the Council of Ministers. On 11 March, again a meeting between the coalition partners, in which we understood that we had comments, but we support the Law in principle. Opinions received from PP, DB and ICN. On March 22nd, a table was sent with notes to Parliament's committees to examine it in advance. On March 25, the draft was sent and corrected, finally submitted to the Council of Ministers, and March 31, submitted to the Council of Ministers. One law tell me, adopted during the time of GERB, which has passed through this coalition consultations, ombudsman, BNB, ministries, NGOs, committees of parliament? And you will tell me that the procedure has been broken because the public discussions have only been 14 days. January 6th, what are we now in May, mid-May, and you didn't have time for five months to see this law? And you didn't have time for these five months to get involved in the work of these committees, public discussions and so on? I'm telling you again, I respect all kinds of different opinions. You may not want to back it up with your will, at least not with these arguments. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Colleagues, I'm taking the 12-10 off. For speech are recorded Branimir Balachev, Emil Georgiev and Vasil Stefanov. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u124	Colleagues, I'm going to resume the hearing. For speech is recorded Branimir Balachev. Here you go, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman! Unfortunately, Mrs. Ninova is currently missing. Dear colleagues! My statement relates to whether this law, in this form, can be adopted at first reading? The arguments I intend to put before you today are above all legal and less political because, in principle, I believe that such a law on regulation of the activities of the collectors companies needs, in view of the arbitrariness and the actions they have for years exercised on the Bulgarian citizens who are definitely not regulated, which are definitely illegal and which definitely have nothing to do with the way a claim is collected. There are methods that I would say, to put it mildly, are uncivilized. However, when a law is created, it should cover all public relations and regulate them once and for all. This is the idea, one of the most important functions of the National Assembly, creating good laws. A good law by my understanding with the experience I have in law enforcement is this law which regulates all relations that should be regulated at a certain stage. The proposal presented to us by the Council of Ministers in the face of Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Nino definitely does not meet these requirements. And I'll tell you why. From the very title of the Bill it is understood that these sufferings, which we have just heard from Mrs Ninova, which so motivated her a few more days after she took up this post to submit or publish, in particular, a Bill for the collection of claims, such as consumer contracts, tells us that she, her burdens, her sufferings, most likely similar to Jesus Christ, covered a small part of those people who are the subject of this racket by employees of these collector companies. Because if she had the desire to comply with European legislation as well, which is covered by Directive 2021/67, as well as the older Directives 2008/48/EC and 2014/16/EU, she would have offered us no Law on Consumer Contracts, but would have offered us a law covering all bank loans, all mortgage loans, all fast loans, all non-bank financial institutions, because there are, and then we would have passed on consumer loans, which are actually at stake. In fact, what is set out in its project covers only a very small percentage and these are loans which I have another opinion on with regard to these loans and the way they are collected, these are credits above all from the Water, Energy, Toplofication and mobile operators. I'll make an announcement on my proposal. I believe that one such law should prohibit these, because all these activities are both social activities, and by obtaining electricity, this is also laid down in these laws, specific laws of water, for energy and so on, the "Topplofication" and GSM, these are all social activities and should not be, we should exclude them from the possibility that these claims should be disposed of to third parties and therefore claims, as the colleague Ivanov calculated just now, one claim, say, for 100 then make it the size of 2000. So, if Mrs. Nino really wanted to make a comprehensive law, she had to cover all of these, and to remain a debate on this, for example, proposal that I would do if this law ever came to second reading. In this regard, I am somewhat doubting these sufferings, although I very much wish I was wrong about the fact that this law actually resembles lobbyist rather than a law that protects citizens' interests. And in this regard I draw rights and draw arguments precisely from the proposal of the Law which she made. It makes no sense, there is no logic in wanting the capital of these companies to be 500 thousand. BGN, because for those who practice lawyers, they know very well that this capital is being imported and exported. It can neither guarantee any collateral, nor can it guarantee the possible debtors against irregular actions of collector companies, which in fact capital has one such function in principle, but in practice something quite different is obtained. This leads me to believe that an artificial limit is being created in terms of obtaining the opportunity to engage in such a type of commercial activity as the collector's and obviously this is being done, at least in my opinion, in the interests of certain companies. There is, and I accept that Mrs. Ninova, who is not a lawyer, tried to persuade you here earlier... [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] If he's a lawyer, even worse, because talking about seeing would only be due interest, that's not true. Because by law, all costs of one production are due, and it is impossible with this special law, if it is adopted at all, to reach... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Don't call, guys! With this special law there is no way to derogate either the Commercial Law or the Law on Contract obligations or anything else. So the volume, first of all, is obviously wrong and there is no way at second reading if we assume that we there will fix and expand the subject of activity of this law, that means we make a law entirely. Similarly, the claim that some regulatoryness was introduced in the possibility of a claim being sedated is also false. And at present, the case as a right exists, it also implies some kind of notification regime, it also implies specifying the claim how much the claim is, how much the interest is and so on. But there is something very important here, which is when we talk about the interest rates that Mrs. Ninova is trying to convince us that, you see, they would be smaller. That's not true! All these contracts, starting from the bank and getting to the consumer, have severe penal interest rates that raise the obligation they have times. Here is something that is not thought of here at all, and this is very important and if we want to help debtors who have fallen on one or another circumstance in their inability to pay their loans, we should not burden them with such godless penal interest as they are handed over. So none of these good points of this law, which are highlighted here, firstly, do not meet the general requirements of law and enter into a Coliseum with it, and as such would most likely be declared unlawful in the appropriate order and apart from that, our categorical opinion is that, in this form, the bill should not be voted at first reading. He must return to the importer, he must take into account, because he has not taken any of these objections, which have been made by almost all those who have given an opinion on the occasion of the bill, to reformulate it, starting from the title to not have such an object, but to be its title with respect to absolutely all credits that are being used in the rule of law of the Republic of Bulgaria. And here I want to say a few things. Yeah, there really should be a licensing regime. And where Mrs. Ninova sends us to Secret Office, that's where we really need to see which companies should be given a license, under what conditions, and not just those who are the formal owners of the companies they apply for, but all the employees in them. Because you know that companies are registered to grandmothers, great-grandmothers and whatever else to avoid any kind of opportunity or doubt that someone is convicted or has some registration and so on, but in fact the activity is carried out by people in the form of a civil contract or whatever you think of all sorts of legal possibilities in essence. So this licensing regime has to go either to the Ministry of Finance or to the Ministry of Justice, where it belongs to possibly checking these collectors' companies, and when licensing these companies there must be very clear rules on what powers are. Here we also need to think about what the possibilities are and how these collectors can learn not only our property, but about handling personal data to the maximum extent because now, and now, they are learning things that cannot otherwise be learned unless, in a criminal way, they get access to the relevant personal data. This law needs a fundamental revision and I therefore believe that we will not vote, but that it is controversial, I would like to make only one retrospective. On 6 April this draft law was actually submitted to the National Assembly. On 13 April he appeared in our Legal Committee and we did not accept it.. we did not accept it all or almost all because we had very serious arguments about it. Then on April 20, another attempt was made. I'm starting to think that this law is part of the agreement between the ruling parties and it's life and death for Mrs. Ninova. I have no idea who she promised what to.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u126	Mr. Balachev, don't press charges like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u127	Then on the 28th he wasn't accepted again. Only on May 5th, with a questionable majority of 11 votes plus one vote, the President-in-Office of the Legal Commission, I do not see him here, voted on Viber, was adopted and had to be voted again at yesterday's meeting. So the very way this bill is going speaks of it being definitely unlawful, and if we accept it at first reading, we will not fulfill the basic function for which we have been chosen, namely to give quality laws. Otherwise, there will be 50 in every Bulgarian law and somewhere there are 100 amendments, which is a shame and a disgrace to the National Assembly. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u128	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Petrov, for a line. [[Reply.]] Mr. Popov is for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u129	I'm up for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u130	Yeah, she's two minutes too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleague Balachev, I think it was good to remind you also that the suffering of the Deputy Prime Minister and her concern for the debtors that you are referring to included what she said just now, I quote: "And now, when someone comes to tell you that you owe 1000 BGN, you can't do anything. The debtor also has the right to legal protection at the moment by bringing the negative finding sheet under art. 124 of the GPC. I also believe that the sufferings that you refer to should include this possibility provided for in this new bill, namely the conduct of positive finding claims by creditors whose debtors have challenged in accordance with art. 7, para. 2. And here, my colleague, I think it was appropriate for the general public to clarify that when such a case is brought, if the creditor, so called a collector, has a legal consultant on his salary, then the court awards him 150 BGN. A legal consul's reward. Then when he goes to the CSI, he gets another 100 leva. legal consul remuneration for a performance case. So one case makes 250 leva. and with a dozen shares a month, if that same collector has appointed a legal counsel, he pays him a salary. However, honourable Members, when a collector company has purchased several thousand debts, it will file at least several hundred cases, so the difference of 250 BGN. in the case of each of the following cases...................................................................................................................... A month's worth of profit. Again, pure profit for the collector. This may be one of the unspoken objectives of this bill, which I think we should take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u132	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Is there a second line to Mr. Balachev? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u133	Colleague Petrov, you are absolutely right in relation to the claim that the Bill introduces some special procedure for the possibility of appealing the claims offered by the collector company because this order for contesting the claims is clear and precisely formulated in several laws, including in the Civil Procedure Code, so that anyone who has obligations and disputes them can make them legal. Here, however, the big question is another. You remember when we talked about proceedings under art. 410 and under art. 417 and we were against being accepted as they were accepted to better defend the rights of the debtor, because it is the weak point in this fight between a bank and a debtor, we did not do enough to protect it. All these executive lists, which are taken on this basis, are very difficult to disprove, and those which are under art. 417, you know that they don't actually stop the execution, and usually while such a procedure is underway, he's already inflated, beaten or whatever Mrs. Ninova says and no longer makes sense of this production. [[Noise and lines.]] You are very right, colleague Petrov, and in relation to the fact that the notification procedure should be simplified, but at the expense of giving security to the debtor that he is really aware of these actions. What we are offered in this law is a travesty, that is, one thing that has it at the moment, and now everyone who produces a claim has an obligation to say how much money he gives to whom so that this mission can enter into force. And I just want to say that the burdens that we are all talking about, the suffering that Mrs. Ninova has suffered by January this year, why do they not catch, for example, the mission that made a large bank in relation to a large collector's company for nearly 1 billion. lv. That's where her weight should be, ours are in that direction. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u134	Thank you. And now the procedure of Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's been a lot of nonsense from this tribune, a lot of suggestion. We have tried from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, colleagues from the coalition to explain that in fact these are only and only suggestions, it has even come to this. I cannot believe that in the plenary I will hear that when there is a joint bill and special one, it does not apply specifically to me, this is, my God, legal innovation in Bulgaria. But here in the Chamber, Mr. President, is Dimitar Margaritov, who is the Chairman of the Commission for Consumer Protection, who has direct cashiership to this problem and to this bill. I take this opportunity to call him, to invite Mr. Margaritov to come to the stand and explain to the honourable colleagues, I hope he will be able to distract all these suggestions that have been expressed here just now. So, please, if Mr. Margaritov has the desire and the opportunity to command the stand and take account of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u136	Okay, thank you, Mr. Popov. Yes, Mr. Margaritov can take the floor if he wishes, of course. For speech Emil Georgiev, then Vassil Stefanov, I enrolled Yavor Bojankov. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev, you're up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u137	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! As part of the Bulgarian society, we, too, must take into account a very, very important issue, which has been postponed for years, as is, by the way, not done in the countries with developed democracy. I remind you that, historically, in 1961, for the first time, US President Kennedy raised the issue of the rights of Bulgarian consumers. Unfortunately, in time since then, for one reason or another, the rights of Bulgarian consumers have been neglected, thus forming them not only as the poorest and most unwarranted in the large family of European consumers, but also the most unprotected by the Bulgarian legislation. In this regard, it is our responsibility to repair this damage. Undoubtedly, in today's times, as is said all the time, consumers are also affected by the activities of these companies known in the public space as collector companies. It is only right to know that at the moment the value of the claims will become clear, too, is huge. Claims are made by companies whose unofficial number is currently over 45 and registration with the Bulgarian National Bank has only 17. According to the March management association's report, taking into account the significant changes in the economic environment for 2020, the total volume of newly committed debt to recovery companies is 742 million at 832 million for 2019. The survey data shows a decline in the total number of new recovery cases. For 2020, it is 936 thousand, at the same time for 2019 the number of cases is 1 million. $84,000. Thus, the average amount of the obligations of the Bulgarians for 2020 is BGN 792. of every Bulgarian citizen, at BGN 767 for 2019 There are different trends in the market of purchased debts. I'm saying all this because I'm trying to be very careful in the name of the consumers and constantly speculating on maybe because it's known that there are cameras on in the room. If there weren't cameras on, there probably wouldn't be a lot of people talking. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty. BGN, while in 2019 this indicator is equal to 1, I do not see it 362 million. lv. The number of repayments for 2020 is 102 thousand, while in 2019 it is a double of 208 thousand. At Mr. Balachev's speech, please listen more carefully, he is most committed in 2020. On the basis of the number of cases with regard to banks, there are 38%. Non-bank financial institutions are 27%. Next are the telecoms - 24%, these are official data, insurance companies - 3%; utility companies - 2%; utility companies - 1%, and 5% of everything else. Compared to the transitional years, the debt of banking institutions slightly decreased at the expense of the rising volume charged by non-banking ones. I hope that Mr. Margaritov will take part because at this stage the banks will be covered after transposition of Regulation 2167. Those are the facts. I don't see if Mrs. Kanazireva is here because she said it was a lie. [[The National Representative Danny Kanazireva signs that he is in the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u138	She can take a cue here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u139	I apologize. It's not lies, it's facts. I sincerely hope that the lawyers who have so far spoken, who are furiously declaring against the adoption of this law, are by no means defending the interests of this creditor company that Mr. Kulenski mentioned, for 75 million. Mr. Petrov, I want to answer you this way. I will need at least 30 minutes to set out examples of consumer complaints in the Consumer Federation with more than 13,000 officially registered membership tables. For last year there are 2000 complaints, of which about 600 complaints are only in connection with the activities of the creditor companies. Mr. Petrov, you are talking about an agreement between a collector and a debtor and I will give you an example: BGN 2000. in 2005; in 2022, debts are sold by collector to collector. Do you know what size it is? 13 thousand leva! And when the Federation intervened, they refused, and I can present official documents. And now that this repayment period has expired, they are putting pressure on the consumer to pay because the mission is BGN 920, to pay another £1,200 to cancel, to account for in the credit register. So agreements between consumers and a large number of these lenders, who are most frankly bandits, can't be there.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u140	Two and a half minutes remain for your group, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u141	It is a pity that there is so little time left, because as a representative of the Federation, I can give you dozens more examples of blackmailing people. And I would ask Mr. Petrov how he would react when he was faced by an elderly woman 84 years old, on whom the debt of BGN 2000 had long expired. and the face comes and rings her at the door and tells her two thousand leva, otherwise you'll have an accident. What are you going to say to this woman, you're going to hire her security, or you're going to take over her protection at the bank? I can say many more things, honourable Members, because in this House, I hope there will be more impressions than I have as President of the Federation of Consumers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u142	Maybe you'll have an opportunity in the back, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u143	Yeah, I'm done. Between first and second reading, many more proposals can be made, but the important thing is that this law is under way and we are all obliged to accept it because the consumer has no party affiliation, no ethnicity, no religion. I call on all of you to support the Law at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u144	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you go, Mr. Petkov. From Mr. Balachev, second line, from Petar Petrov, third.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I allow myself to step out of this stands and speak from the point of view that I have almost 10 years of experience in this area that you are discussing here. I listened to all kinds of things, I purposely waited, and I think what most of you are doing is a political PR, which is very ugly because really Bulgarian citizens need a working law for these loans and claims. I suggest we focus on what Mrs. Miteva said and on constructive conversation, because I've been listening for about an hour now just setting up public opinion in one direction or another. We have prepared 13 pages of an opinion that can be taken into account. I am part of this task force, and I suggest that we focus on making a really working law that doesn't embarrass us after a time when the complaints are started. I suggest that we focus on this, not on the political strategies and interests of a party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u146	Thank you, Mr. Petkov, for the line. It wasn't strictly aimed at Mr. Georgiev. Here you are, Mr. Balachev, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u147	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Georgiev, I would like to thank you very frankly for the question that has been bugging me for many years why my parents had no problems with consumer loans and collector companies, and it was due to US President John Fitzgerald Kennedy, who died in 1961. Thank you. And just one more short time with regard to the statistics that you gave, make a statistic for the period 2018 - 2021 how many claims the banks have settled on collector companies and you will see what the effect is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u148	Thank you. The third line from Peter Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleague Georgiev, I will start my line as follows. You ask questions to me, but I will ask you to distinguish between a non-serviced loan and an obligation on which the legal limitation has expired to be enforced. These are two huge differences, and in the second no one argues that when an objection is made in this direction, it cannot be coerced accordingly. Unfortunately, the bill that has been granted to us only refers to, at least in black and white, non-performing loans and we are obliged to comply with this, remembering just now that the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy Mrs. Nino said that until now, if they have gone to beat people, then obviously that will not happen now. Well, I interpret it this way that if bullies have been sent to beat people up and terrorize debtors by now because they'll be the same registered ones, they'll probably beat less. That's the only difference I see. There is no other difference in the collection of so-called non-serviceable loans and overdue claims which, anyway, I say, when there is a dispute over them, sooner or later, should be collected by court order. You say here you have advised in the Federation debtors to seek their rights, that is commendable. The bad news is that, on the other hand, when sold, and especially a large number of such non-performing claims, those who buy them and who invest in their purchase are also expected to seek their rights. I have also said in my statement that the final outcome, which will be quite swollen, will pay only the Bulgarian citizen who has been in debt for I do not know how long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u150	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u151	Mr. Balachev, I gave the example when it was the first time to talk to consumers, to know that since then nothing has been done with us in Bulgaria and in this regard I said it. Mr. Petrov, for the suffering of Christ. I'm aware of the suffering of some of the lawyers. With the introduction of order with this law will somehow drain your options for protecting such consumers. That's your pain, that's your suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u152	Mr. Georgiev, not to professional guilds. Before I give the floor to Vasil Stefanov, Mr. Margaritov also wants to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u153	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me very briefly to complete some essential points on the basis of what Minister Ninova said at the presentation of the bill. Describing the chronology of his way to the parliamentary hall, it became clear that there were a number of opinions, notes and suggestions that were made in different formats. Here I would like to draw attention to three groups of problems on which the comments made and the proposed expert team, which worked on the law in which I have been involved, have not been accepted, and very briefly really give the arguments for this. First of all, the famous issue with the directive. It is quite clear that the Law provides that at this stage only credit institutions should be excluded from its scope, but not bank financial institutions, which largely answers the question of the inclusion of consumer and fast loans. And now, as far as banks are concerned, I would say that in a way they are included in the regulation, because in fact their exclusion is based, and it is quite clear that there is a directive which has written the order in which the banks are proceeding, that this directive is in the process of transposition, that there is a certain order in which this transposition is carried out, that there is a responsible institution which carries out this transposition, that sooner or later it will happen, that is to say, these provisions of the directive will become part of the current Bulgarian legislation. Most likely, if this does not happen between first and second reading, it will happen in this law once it is adopted if it is adopted. So for me there is no drama on this issue, but of course what was said that within the procedure between first and second reading will happen transposition would be good, because we all know that this will happen at some point. Secondly, the group of questions related to the proposal to exclude certain economic operators from the possibility of selling so-called collector companies claims under consumer contracts. I would just like to remind you that in the previous years this issue has been repeatedly discussed in various formats, especially under the auspices of the Ombudsman. There were comments that these economic operators should not, although they have a more specific subject matter of activity and order in which they carry it out, to collect such claims themselves, because this inevitably imposes additional costs on their administration and this, in turn, reflects at the final price, because not always the prices to which they provide their services are regulated, even in most cases they are not. This is also the main argument that has led us to understand that there should be no exceptions to the scope of different types of economic operators, since in turn the law, creating a procedure, restrictions, register and so on, guarantees that when these claims are sold, they will be collected in the legal order. The third question, perhaps of the weakest importance at the time, but is not to be overlooked in any case, is the proposal that the original creditor should have obligations to offer the debtor to redeem the claim under the same conditions under which he would sell it to the collector. In general, the considerations are that, under the intended order of notification and the granting of a voluntary execution period, there is no reason to prevent the debtor and the original creditor from entering into negotiations to clear the amount of the obligation and, respectively, to reduce, defer, defer and so on. In my view, it would rather affect the links on which the commercial turnover operates, the extent to which these transactions of portfolio transfer, non-performing consumer obligations to traders engaged in this activity are nevertheless subject to any market principles, possibly to any specific calculations, forecasts, business plans and so on. These are the three main groups of problems which have not been fully cleared in the context of the coordination procedure. Finally, for the title, it is because, as the legal definition of the concept of consumer contracts laid down in the project itself shows, these are all contracts, including credit contracts, when they become part of the scope of the law, a party to which on one side is a natural person and on the other side is a trader. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u154	Thank you, Mr. Margaritov. Here's your speech, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I thank Mr. Margaritov for the clarification he just made. And now to the substance of the Bill at first reading. In my opinion, the Bill on the recovery of claims under a consumer contract requires a legislative act that lays down a framework for the rights and obligations of collectors and regulates how far the attempts to communicate with citizens regarding their obligations, some of which have even expired under limitation. Out-of-work calls, searching for personal contact, receiving threats to me are not acceptable means of recovery in a rule of law, as undisputed as these claims may be. These are some of the most unpleasant practices that collectors allow themselves and which we find unacceptable and affecting the privacy of every person. This bill is necessary in order to protect Bulgarian citizens from arbitrary, potential harassment or misleading. This can be achieved through the compulsory registration of companies in the single register provided for in the project, through the control mechanisms, the limitation of time ranges in which the debtor can be sought and so on. In the Forty-fourth National Assembly GERB had a whole term. If this parliamentary group had the desire to regulate these public relations, I think it had plenty of time to do so, as we heard a little earlier. Apparently, a four-year term isn't enough to do this thing. I hope that we will achieve this within the forty-seventh National Assembly. It is precisely because we are looking at the Bill at first reading that we need to concentrate on its integrity. Not to address specific texts and discuss them at this stage. I think it has been understood from the speeches so far that almost all parliamentary groups actually have the desire to protect the interests of the Bulgarian citizens, which is also the idea of the bill, which the ruling majority wants to achieve in the end. However, under the Bill, there is really a need to refine specific texts, which, again, I say, at the time of first reading, we do not comment, but there is. That is why I welcome what my colleagues from BSP and ICN wished for an extension of the deadline for proposals between first and second readings. As we will also make relevant proposals to the Bill between the readings and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, we are continuing the Change and we are saying that we will support this Bill at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u156	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Are there any lines for Vasil Stefanov? I can't see. To make a statement, Yavor Bozhankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I regret that for the short period of time that remains, I cannot go into detail on every false argument, on every one of GERB's thesis and rebirth, which, for one reason or another, want to stop this bill. But the debate so far answers a very important question: why has this law not been passed for so many years; why has so many years been disorderly; why has so many years been abused by Bulgarian citizens? Well, today's debate answers that question, but it also gives a new perspective.. There is already a new majority and will that it really be resolved and we believe it will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u158	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. A line from Alexander Simov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u159	Dear Mr. Bojankov, in your speech you told about many lies that have been told. I believe that you have an obligation to give examples, to tell us specifically who they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u160	Thanks for the line, Mr. Simov. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Simov, the people have said: "The lying feet are short, and I will not dwell on all those lies that have been spoken. It is more important to say what is really the purpose of this bill, what are the three problems that it solves. First of all, what's the situation right now? Unregistered entities, outside regulation, outside any legal norms, without capital, a large number of them criminally harass Bulgarian citizens in the small hours of the day by sticking notices, with visits to an address, humiliating their honor and dignity to their families and employers. When people look for protection and still get somewhere, it turns out that they don't have capital. They can't convict them. They can't take anything away from them. These people are unknown. Therefore, the Law settles these three very important issues. First of all, capital requirement. Because it is now certain that, when these entities are registered, they have a financial responsibility, it can be realized in full. The law provides for any violation of severe administrative procedural rules, administrative criminal liability and security for debtors. One of the big problems.............. is 50 thousand complaints to the Ombudsman about people who are charged with all kinds of fees and interest. We're putting an end to this. Now everyone will be informed of how much they owe. He'll have a chance to defend himself. He'll have an informed choice of what to do. No step can be taken without him knowing about it and without having proper order in the Law to defend himself. This is a huge step forward. That is the purpose of this law. This law fulfils that purpose. From now on, many changes can be made between first and second readings. It can be improved, refined and a constructive opposition can help in this process. But the opposition in the face of GERB and the revival do not want this and they do not have the courage to tell Bulgarian citizens the simple truth. Tell them that. You want to remain the old order in which questionable criminal entities without capital harass the Bulgarian citizens and burden them with interest and humiliate them and harass them. Say that this is what you want to stay because you are not making proposals in the direction of improving the legislative act. You're not helping the process. You want to remain the old situation and you probably have an interest in doing this, but we will not allow it. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Proclaims: "Eee!" by GERB-SDS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u162	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. There's no more record of a statement. Anyone? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] After so many calls, I will not stop the discussion. I put to the vote a bill for recovery of claims under consumer contracts, No 47-202-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 April 2022. The first vote. They voted 129 MPs: 106, none, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes to be the maximum of 28 days, calling on all MPs to join the working group and to unite our efforts to really make a law for the benefit of the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. I put to the vote the procedural proposal that the time limit for proposals between first and second readings be 28 days. Vote 164 MPs: 162 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We have thus exhausted this point in the National Assembly's Work Programme. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE INVESTIGATION OF ALL MORANDUMS AND LETTERS FOR FINES REFERRED TO BY THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE PERIOD OF 12 MAY 2021 TO 20 APRIL 2022 Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Please introduce us to the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our proposal for the establishment of a temporary committee is motivated by the need to establish all facts and circumstances relating to the signing of all memorandums and letters of intent by members of the Council of Ministers for the period from 12 May 2021 to 20 April 2022. This is because we are provoked by the lack of clear, precise and specific information regarding the commitments made by the members of the Council of Ministers on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria when signing memorandums and/or letters of intent, as well as memorable notes. The last publicly known signing of such a memorandum, which we have long insisted on having a temporary committee and all countries, objects and ties to the Republic of Bulgaria to become publicly known, is on 23 March when the Minister of Energy Mr. Alexander Nikolov signed a Memorandum of Cooperation with Gemcorp Capital Management Ltd and IP3 Corporation. As a result of this partnership, the government press office has stated that investments worth about 1 billion are expected. The dollar in green energy. The investment was announced to be related to the Energy Storage Battery Factory Project, which the government promoted as an alternative to coal thermal plants in the Maritsa East Basin, as well as these intentions were evident from the presentation of one of the objectives of the Memorandum, namely building a hybrid industrial complex in the territory of Maritsa East. I remind you that this project is also included in the Recovery Plan with European funding. Guided by the understanding that when ordering public funds, by the European Union in particular, which are the funds of the European taxpayers, or possible investments in the Bulgarian economy, which are supported by the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, it is necessary and appropriate for the National Assembly to have information about the actions of the executive authority, we propose the establishment of such a temporary committee to establish in an indisputable way and to provide information to both the Members of the National Assembly and the entire public about the countries, the subject, the content and binding clauses for the Republic of Bulgaria. And in this sense, honourable Members, I present to you: Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission to examine all memorandums and letters of intent signed by the Government for the period from 12 May 2021 to 20 April 2022 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Set up a Temporary Commission to examine all memorandums and letters of intent signed by members of the Council of Ministers for the period from 12 May 2021 to 20 April 2022. 2. The temporary committee consists of 14 Members of Parliament elected on a parietal principle by two from each parliamentary group. 3. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Committee of inquiry as follows: Chairman:... Members:... 4. The interim committee shall establish all facts and circumstances relating to the memorandums and letters of intent signed by the Council of Ministers for the period from 12 May 2021 to 20 April 2022. 5. Consider and analyse documents relating to the establishment of the content, the parties, the subject matter and appropriateness of the clauses in the signed memorandums and letters of intent. 6. The interim committee shall draw up a report on the results of its work and the facts and circumstances established. 7. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of 1 month. I've presented you with the draft decision. I very much hope that the consensus that the National Assembly demonstrated yesterday in the establishment of another temporary committee relating to the suspension of the supplies of the "Gazprom" will also be confirmed with regard to this temporary committee, if, of course, the ruling majority has nothing to hide from society and, of course, from the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I'm opening a discussion on the draft decision. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Before we go to the vote, I will make two editorial proposals to correct the text. The first is in the title, as there is a difference in the title of the third row writes:....................................................................................................... 1 is: supplied by members of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, one of my editorial proposals is also in the title to become the text:........... by members of the Council of Ministers....................................... by members of the Council of Ministers........................................................................................................... The other is in t. 3, writes: These are the two editorial proposals to clear the text before we proceed to the vote on the main proposal. First of all, I vote on the two editorial proposals I made, we vote on them. [[(Reply from]] Editorial proposals I said. Because there is a discrepancy between the title and so on. 1. The title says: "The Government" and "The Government." In the title will not be the government and will be the members of the Council of Ministers. 3 is: The committee of inquiry in question, to drop the word. Vote 161 MPs: 143 against 8, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the main proposal in line with the adopted editorial amendments. We are voting on GERB-SDS's proposal to set up a temporary committee. Vote 167 MPs: 72, against 82, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. [[Reply: "Prevoting! "]] Revoting at the request of Peter Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u167	My console's not working.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u168	Were you able to vote, Mr. Cholakov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u169	Yeah, he's all right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u170	Vote 168 MPs: for 73, against 87, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. We've run out of that point in the program. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE BULGARIAN LANGUAGE. A report has been submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on the Bill. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova, to introduce us to the Report. [[Noise.]] Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, my fellow Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bulgarian Language Bill No 47-254-01-16, submitted by Kostadin Todorov Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022. At its regular meeting held on 23 March 2022, the Committee on Education and Science discussed the Bulgarian Language Bill, No 47-254-01-16, submitted by Kostadin Todorov Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Education and Science Mrs. Maria Gaidarova, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, and Evgenia Kostadinova, Director of the Directorate of Pre-school and School Education, Professor Lyubomir Andrejinova at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences Professor Dr. Lucia Antonova-Vasileva Director of the Institute and Associate Professor Dr. Tatiana Alexandrova Head of the Contemporary Bulgarian Language Section, Ms. Sonia Momchilova, Member of the SEM, and Ms. Emilia Staneva, Secretary General of the CEM, as well as representatives of NGOs. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Kostadin Kostadinov. He pointed out that the main objective of the bill is to build a clear legal framework to guarantee the future of the Bulgarian language. The adoption of the Bill will contribute to raising the policy for protection of the Bulgarian language as the basis of Bulgarian nationality and of the Bulgarian statehood to a much higher level. Special attention is paid to the study and use of the Bulgarian literary language outside the territory of the country and the absorption of the language by those for which it is not a mother. The leading motive for importers is the fact that the Bulgarian language is taken for granted, but in recent years it has undergone changes in an extremely unfavorable spirit. According to the bill were received opinions from the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Institute for Bulgarian Language. Kliment Ohridski, the Council for Electronic Media and the Syndicate of Bulgarian Teachers. In the performance of art. 72, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education and Science, before discussing the Draft Law in substance, carry out an examination and establish its compliance with the requirements of the Law on Regulations, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules of Procedure. At the meeting, a public discussion was held on the Draft Law, which involved representatives of the institutions and organizations that provided written opinions. Professor Lyubomir Andrejchin continues to adhere to his position that the most appropriate model is to continue the already established practice for the legislative settlement of language matter, as its clarification to be done by successively supplementing the existing more than 100 separate regulations governing the use of the Bulgarian literary language in the various spheres of public life. In the proposed bill, unprecise and non-scientific wordings are found. There is no law to regulate public relations relating to the rules of the literary language. The official status of the Bulgarian language is protected by a number of laws. Such are the Law on regulations, the Law on Radio and Television and, above all, the Law on School and Preschool Education, which specifically regulates very detailed all cases where a foreign language is also used for children for whom the Bulgarian is not a mother, and special training under the control of the state is offered. The proposed Council for Bulgarian language is an unnecessary institution which is burdened with non-special functions for a scientific community. The idea of organizing the Bulgarian Cultural Institute "St. St. Cyril and Methodius is good, but his tasks and objectives are so set that in fact he seized many of the functions of the Ministry of Education and of the Ministry of Culture. According to the Ministry of Education and Science, the Law does not implement in full the Law on Legislative Acts, according to which, in the matter to which it relates, a law must fully settle all major public relations which are subject to a permanent arrangement, as many references are made to settle such relations in other laws and regulations. In an attempt for explicit and comprehensive settlement in a law of cases for which the Bulgarian language is compulsory and in view of its vast spheres of application, there is a risk that certain public relations will remain outside its scope. This would create a contradiction with the special laws that they have explicitly and in fullness the compulsory application of the Bulgarian language. The terms and conditions for the study of the Bulgarian language are already settled, and more precise and comprehensive in the Law on pre-school and school education and related regulations. The regulation of issues related to the development of the Bulgarian language by law is unfounded and unmotivated. The status of the envisaged bodies. "Bulgarian Cultural Institute "St. St. Cyril and Methodius and the Bulgarian Language Service is not clear enough. The Council for Electronic Media confirms its statement of 2018 when an identical bill has been examined. It should be carefully assessed whether public relations related to the use and development of the Bulgarian language should be subject to legislative regulation or should develop freely as part of the diversity of Bulgarian culture. The SEM cannot directly interfere with the way it not only looks, but also sounds broadcasts in the media that are not public. Television directly affects the upbringing and personality formation of children. This should be in line with school training plans for adolescents of the earliest age. Given the immense amount of reality formats and entertaining shows, it is difficult to defend the book rules, the right to speak and the cleanness of the language to the required extent. In his opinion of the Department of Language and Specialized Training at Sofia University "St. The legal settlement of the issue of learning the Bulgarian language, especially by people for whom it is not a mother, is directly related also to the issue of certification of the level of knowledge of the language under the Common European Language Framework. The presented bill provides that the certification activities at the level of Bulgarian language knowledge will be awarded to the Bulgarian Cultural Institute. Valentine's Day. Cyril and Methodius. However, the status of this institute is not very clearly defined. A much more precise view of the issue of certification is needed. The establishment of an independent National Certification Center in Bulgarian language is essential, based in Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski and licensed by the Ministry of Education and Science. The written opinion of the Ministry of Finance points out the need to address some problematic and/or unclear aspects of the proposed legal framework, insofar as it relates to the financing of policies carried out by the government and there are reasons to assume that the financial consequences will not be limited to the maintenance and remuneration of the Bulgarian Language Council provided for in the project, as stated in the reasons of the importers. The bill regulates relations, some of which fall within the scope of other laws, but without offering full consistency of the related legislation. This leads to a duplication of the powers of the Bulgarian Language Council provided for in the Draft Law with those of the central authorities of the executive power, as well as to a duplication of functions of the proposed new administrative structure "Bulgarian Cultural Institute," for which there is no information on the expected financial consequences with existing administrative structures in the reasons of the draft and the preliminary assessment of impact. The Ministry of Finance cannot support the proposed draft Law on the Bulgarian language because its motives lack the required indication of the financial and other funds needed to implement the new regulation. In his opinion, the Syndicate of Bulgarian Teachers shares the need to adopt a Law on Bulgarian Language, which will build a common unified framework, creating conditions for the preservation and enrichment of the book Bulgarian language. In the draft special place is dedicated to the use of the Bulgarian language in electronic environment. A state standard for the Bulgarian form of Cyrillic is introduced. The question remains whether the proposed Council for the Bulgarian language of the Council of Ministers will have the necessary capacity to effectively perform its replaced control functions for the identification of violations and sanctioning of offenders. The discussion included MPs Antonia Dimitrova, Krasimir Valchev, Plamen Nikolov, Irena Anastasova, Mukaddes Nalbant, Andrey Chorbanov, Hristo Petrov, Veska Nencheva and Kostadin Kostadinov. People's representatives from the Parliamentary Group of "We continue the Change" pointed out that the language is a living organism that is developing, and it is not subject to laws. For the preservation and promotion of the language it is necessary to pay more attention to education, to innovative teaching methods, to the stronger teaching of the Bulgarian language and to literature, and not to its regulation by law. It is absolutely unnecessary in law to repeat basic texts of the Constitution. It is also not necessary to mention in law texts from another law, where this type of public relations are already regulated, while importers of the Bulgarian Language Bill refer mainly to the Preschool and School Education Act. The creation of the Council for the Bulgarian language is another controversial moment. Its construction is a consultative body, and at the same time is entrusted with administrative functions, including the imposition of sanctions. According to them, this bill is too imperfect and thoughtless and would create more problems. MPs from the parliamentary group GERB-SDS pointed out that language is the basis of national identity, respectively storage, conservation, its validation is also the basis of national identity. They believe that there is a need for such a specific bill because it contains many provisions that are not in the other regulations. It will upgrade the existing model, which is why the bill must be supported by a first vote. The MPs of the parliamentary group of the Parliaments There is such a people who believe that it is not necessary to repeat the existing regulatory base. In the proposed bill there are many texts that are worrying, and according to them it would be better if it were rewritten instead of trying to correct it. The MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms welcome the importers for the experience that has been done with this bill, but many texts need to be refined. They support the establishment of the Institute. Valentine's Day. Cyril and Methodius. By pointing out that this is good international practice, and the countries that have created such institutes really show serious success in spreading their culture around the world. The Parliamentary Group would support the Bill, but only after a serious work on its supplement and editing. The MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria have said that in previous parliaments they have developed this topic by finding that this leads to a result that will not justify either the efforts or the goal. The philosophy of the proposed bill is wonderful and with good intentions. They believe that the main task is to comply with these laws, which already have mandatory regulations on how to use the Bulgarian language. The big problem is the lack of control over implementation, both of them and of many other laws. Very often weakness is not in the laws, but in the people responsible for compliance with the legal provisions, including those related to the use and protection of the Bulgarian language. After the discussion and the two-vote vote held, 6 votes against and 6 votes abstentions, the Committee on Education and Science suggests that the National Assembly should not adopt the Bulgarian Language Bill in the first vote, No 47-254-01-16, submitted by Kostadin Todorov Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. There is also a Report from the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens. Here you are, Professor Chorbanov, to brief us on the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will read you the Report of the Commission on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens concerning the same bill. ♪ I can't believe on the Bulgarian Language Bill, No 47-254-01-16, submitted by Kostadin Todorov Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022. At its regular meeting held on 24 March 2022, the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens examined the Bulgarian Language Bill submitted by Kostadin Todorov Kostadinov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Evgenia Kostadinova, Director of the Directorate of Pre-school and School Education at the Ministry of Education and Science. The Commission also received a written opinion on the draft Law by Academician Nikolay Denkov, Minister of Education and Science. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Angel Georgiev. He pointed out that the aim of the bill is not a cardinal change in public relations, but the collection of the legal norms for the language in one place. This, according to him, will establish the language as a high value for the Bulgarian nation. The importers propose to create a Council for the Bulgarian language to control the conduct of state policy in the field of conservation, enrichment and compulsory use of the Bulgarian literary language, to introduce with it an annual report mechanism in the language before the National Assembly. Importers believe it will contribute to the preservation and preservation of our language. Special attention is paid to the study and use of the Bulgarian literary language outside the territory of today's Republic of Bulgaria and the language absorption by citizens for whom it is not a mother. It is also proposed to regulate the use of the Bulgarian language in electronic environment by validating the Cyrillic alphabet and respectively in Bulgarian font. Countries such as France, Belgium, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Poland have regulated by a separate law public relations related to the use of their languages. Therefore, importers do not believe that the bill would be contrary to European Union law. On behalf of the Ministry of Education and Science Mrs. Evgenia Kostadinova pointed out that the Ministry of Education has always supported the protection and promotion of the use of the Bulgarian language as the basis of the Bulgarian identity. In the presented bill she sees a continuation of the efforts of the Ministry of Education in recent years to increase literacy. With regard to the legality, it should be assessed whether the proposed in the Draft Law is in accordance with the Law on Legislative Acts, since the compulsory use of the Bulgarian language in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is already laid down in the Constitution. As regards the terms and conditions for learning the Bulgarian language, they are also laid down in the Law on pre-school and school education and related regulations. As regards the appropriateness, Mrs. Kostadinova does not find the proposed regulation of the development and enrichment of the Bulgarian language sufficiently justified, as long as the language is a living system and it develops under its own rules. The relations of the Council for Bulgarian Language established with the Draft Law with the already existing institutions are not sufficiently settled. The Bulgarian Cultural Institute, on the one hand, and the Institute for Bulgarian Language at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, on the other. The shift of competence from the Minister of Culture to the Minister of Education regarding the standardization of the Bulgarian form of Cyrillic is also not sufficient grounds according to the Ministry of Education. In addition, the Ministry finds it necessary to refine some inconsistent terms and terms used in the texts. The President of the Commission, Professor Andrey Chorbanov, commented on the submitted bill, stressing that the issue is serious, requires attention. In addition to the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science there are also comments from the Council for Electronic Media. It is absolutely wrong to use the media as a use because in our standards, written by the Institute for Bulgarian Language at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, it is very well mentioned how foreign people should be used and in what form. The fact is, however, that they are not used properly, and this is the most prominent example of how something put into a legal norm can not be implemented simply because it is not implemented. "Media" is a Latin word and is plural to the word "media" so it should be plural. The title itself is incorrect from this point of view. It's just a demonstration of how a legal norm can not work, even if it exists as one. The President expressed his gratitude to the Commission's chief expert Mr. Toshev for providing the title page of the Gramatics to the brothers Anton and Dimitar Tsankovi, which was published in Vienna in 1852 in the Bulgarian language. With it they declare a form of speaking Bulgarian for a correct literary, i.e. for a literary norm, and thus all others speak become dialects. And this is our literary norm so far. The President also asked a question: Will the Dialect be regarded as improper use of the Bulgarian language? "The example with which he illustrates his question is related to the speech around the town of Trun. A teacher has dictated: "Write now, children, on the board: "The Cat eats mice. " The Kid has written: "Machok Rocha Pogans. " Will this legal norm and will it be according to the Law misuse of the Bulgarian language? The state budget for 2022 sets a budget for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, respectively for the Institute of Bulgarian Language at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and is included as a function to deal with the legal documents, which are subsequently used as regulations, as dictionaries, as a form for the correctness of Bulgarian literature, at least in the established norms for the moment, which, you know, change and such dictionaries are issued periodically, taking into account the changes in Bulgarian. It makes no sense to make an authority with a duplicate function, i.e. such a Council to duplicate the Institute for Bulgarian Language at the Academy. Moreover, BAS was founded as an official name Bulgarian book company. People's representative Angel Georgiev replied that the importers sought to cover all public relations related to the Bulgarian language within one framework. The dialects are part of the wealth of our language. The importers believe that such a law will benefit them. If there are any suggestions on how to get better, they are open to improving, improving. People's representative Radomir Cholakov stressed that the bill is discussed before first reading. At first reading is discussed the general philosophy, the idea, the concept, whether there is a need for such a law. The debate raises the issue of dialects. They, dialects, are arranged in art. 15, para. 2, that is, the matter is solved. The discussion before first reading aims to exchange thoughts, but not to stop the discussion, especially if everyone is convinced that the discussion can be useful and can lead to something. Mr. Cholakov has noticed that in the title page of the Drafters' Bill, the 4th People's Assembly is written. It is obvious that this bill was introduced during the time of the government of GERB, it was also discussed then, for some reason it was not adopted. GERB MPs are open for discussion. Following the debates held, the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens also held a vote with 4 votes "for" and 1 against "restraints" proposed to the National Assembly that the Bulgarian Language Bill, No 47-254-01-16, submitted by Kostadin Todorov Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u174	Thank you, Professor. The report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government remains. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, ♪ I can't believe on the Bulgarian Language Bill, No 47-254-01-16, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 29 March 2022, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Bulgarian Language Bill, No 47 254 01-16, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Angel Georgiev. He pointed out that the aim of the Bill is to provide conditions for the preservation and enrichment of the Bulgarian literary language to preserve the language as the basis of the Bulgarian national identity and to encourage the development of education, science, art and culture in the country. The bill does not aim to change the identified more than one hundred legal acts, which govern specific cases of the use of the Bulgarian language, but to cover them in a common framework. The Law proposes to establish a Council for the Bulgarian language of the Council of Ministers to control the conduct of state policy in the field of conservation, enrichment and compulsory use of the Bulgarian language as a national language. It is also intended to introduce a mechanism for an annual report in the language before the National Assembly. The Bill pays attention to the study and use of the Bulgarian literary language outside the territory of the country and the absorption of the language by citizens for whom it is not a mother. According to importers, there is no contradiction with European Union law. It has been stated that in countries such as France, Belgium, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Poland, public relations related to the use of their languages have been regulated by a separate law. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Education and Science and from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. In the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science it is noted that the Ministry generally supports the provision of conditions for the protection and promotion of the use of the Bulgarian language as the basis of the Bulgarian identity. With the Bill, the Ministry finds support for continuing the efforts of the Ministry of Education and Science to increase literacy and promote reading. At the same time, a number of comments have also been expressed in the opinion, paying attention to the existing legislation, where a significant part of the issues relating to the language have been dealt with in detail. The questions on the status and powers of the Bulgarian Language Council and the Bulgarian Cultural Institute are also discussed. It is unacceptable for the Minister of Culture to seize powers and grant them to the Minister of Education and Science. Other comments have also been made as regards the need to refine individual provisions. In the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities it is noted that the envisaged requirements concerning secondary education and pre-school forms of training, in much wider scope and in greater detail, are regulated in the Pre-school and School Education Act, as well as in the State Educational Standard. With regard to the rules governing compulsory use of the official language, according to the Association of Municipalities, issues concerning administrative proceedings are, in much more complete terms, governed by the Administrative-Processory Code, which provides for the compulsory use of the official Bulgarian language by both administrations and natural and legal persons. During the discussion the MPs expressed their basic support for the need to preserve and promote the use of the Bulgarian language as the basis of the Bulgarian identity. People's representative Elena Guncheva pointed out that the adoption of the bill is urgent because in a number of cities the names of streets, institutions, companies and others are written in English, and Bulgarian citizens wonder whether they are in their own country or abroad. According to her, this is how the Constitution of the country is violated and the bill must be adopted in order to protect the Bulgarian language. National Representative Julia Ivanova agreed that the preservation of the Bulgarian language is a worthy cause and we must continue to defend this value. With regard to street inscriptions, buildings, institutions and others, she agreed that they should be in Bulgarian, but must also be duplicated in a foreign language in English in order to facilitate foreign tourists visiting the country. The President of the Commission Mr. Nastimir Ananiev stressed that the topic of language conservation is undoubtedly very important, but the question is whether there is another law needed, since there are sufficient regulations in this area. Regarding disputes in what language should be the duplicate inscriptions, he said that since we are a member of the European Union, they can be in any one of the languages of the European Union and the choice of which one of them is a matter of appropriateness. According to Mr. Ananiev there are insufficient motives for the establishment of the Bulgarian Language Council, provided that there is an Institute of Bulgarian Language at BAS. On the basis of the discussions and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 1 vote, with 1 vote, without the opposition and 10 votes, proposed to the National Assembly the Bulgarian Language Bill, No 47-254-01-16, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs, not to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u176	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Will there be an importer's opinion? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u177	Mr President, there is almost no country in the European Union that does not have such a law. By the way, the one that is usually given as an example and which we have used in the drafting of this bill is France, where there are regulations and regulations that have been followed since 1958, and the vote on the current Constitution of France lays the foundations of the Fifth Republic. This is the moment to point out, in fact, that this bill has been working for years. It is not first imported into the National Assembly, but has been imported several times before. It is almost unchanged and now, of course, with the permission of the people in the previous parliaments who have done it and who have imported it. We have only made some cosmetic editorial corrections inside it, but anyway it cannot be altered because its very being is extremely conservative. The meaning of the Law is to arrange the way in which the Bulgarian language is developed, because there are two ways in which it can evolve, and they are not only valid for our country, and they are valid for all other countries, for all other peoples. One is, so to say, basically the natural way in which language is allowed to develop and it is filled with emerging words and forms, word combinations, especially with foreigners under the influence of others, much stronger and much more powerful languages than it is. The second way is the so-called codification, which enables the state to determine on its own how and in what way to develop this language, creating new words and, in fact, helping the development of the language in one direction or another. An example of codification can immediately be given with the neighbouring Republic of Macedonia, recently known as Northern Macedonia, where a Bulgarian dialect, in fact several Bulgarian dialects were categorized as another language. They claim to be another language, although they are not, and where for years Bulgarian words and phrases are cleaned and replaced with Serbian ones. In fact, this thing is happening right now in our language, although it is not happening in the form of codification in so far as I am not aware and, of course, there is no practice for the Bulgarian state to do so. But, unfortunately, the media is the ones about which it was just mentioned that they are not really media, but psychics, however, they are actually the ones that impose the use and introduction of a lot of foreign people, and the words and words in the Bulgarian language, which at some point even replace the way our language starts to sound grammatically, that is, it is not just beginning to change the content, but also the form. I give a simple example of names that filled the Bulgarian media and newspapers, and televisions, and magazines, and so on in the last two years past the influenza epidemic, known as a pandemic, named COVID-19. Everywhere there was talk of a kind of crisis, a kind of measure, a kind of sick. Now, imagine how instead of a Kovid we use the word flu for example and say flu crisis, flu disease, flu epidemic sounds a little ridiculous and ridiculous. However, as it sounds ridiculous and ridiculous, so we became accustomed to it and so we all used it................ nothing that is not true, even though it is a mockery of the Bulgarian language. However, this is not regulated in any way by the Institute for Bulgarian Language, which has been mentioned several times as an alleged existing regulatory body that could deal with these problems, on the contrary it does not concern itself and does not regulate them in any way, not that there is no good desire, not that they do not have the necessary specialists, of course, simply because they are not its powers. From this point of view, it was also the function of this bill, which, regardless of whether it will be adopted now or not, will become a fact one day, because every self-respecting state, I repeat, especially one with claims to be old, and we believe that at least in this respect we can have justified claims, there must be such a law. I'll give another example. By the way, it is very important and useful, one of the oldest countries in Europe In this language, this country speaks several hundred people, but it is an official state language and it is their mark by which they are defined and limited by all the other neighbours, especially by the English and Irish. From this point of view, it is imperative that such a bill be adopted, because there is a language vacanalia in our country right now. In fact, in our country the Bulgarian language is pushed into the periphery and the only thing that actually preserves it is still the fact that, let's say, to some extent not so much English has entered all the main public circles. But given the way younger generations develop, given the fact that a de facto bilinguality has already been introduced in the Bulgarian state. Everything is duplicated in English, and it is considered, it was even said a little while ago, in some of the reports it was read an opinion that, you see, there should be inscriptions in a foreign language of the Bulgarian institutions, especially, of course, in English, because it was of help to foreign tourists. I should probably ask for a reference to see how many foreign tourists have, for example, entered the Ministry of Culture here, this is the inscription at the front, where he writes in the English Ministry of Culture, how many example foreign tourists have entered, and perhaps in another tourist destination the Ministry of Health, see, here also writes in English, not to mention another obvious tourist destination such as the Ministry of Education and Science here again, of course, again in English. [[The MP Kostadin Kostadinov shows a document]] [[The MP Kostadin Kostadinov shows a document]] There are dozens of examples in this regard, not to mention hundreds. Each Bulgarian state institution is practically translated into English, including if we look at the entrance of the National Assembly and there are such inscriptions. Now, especially for the National Assembly, we should think lightly that in the end here the state official language is one! However, given that there have been foreign flags in our country lately, we obviously have some very interesting breakdown of statehood because it is believed that this is no longer an expression of interference in our internal affairs, but an expression of empathy. I would like to remind you otherwise, because we very much forget, if anyone even remembers that the first clashes in the neighboring Bulgarian country on the Balkan Peninsula, Macedonia, the first clashes began on ethnic basis...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u178	Mr. Kostadinov, after all, you are from the parliamentary tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u179	I'm giving examples, what exactly is there that's bothering you right now?! In the neighbouring Republic of Macedonia similar clashes began after Gostivar put an Albanian flag on the town hall in Gostivar in the West Macedonian city. This was in the distant 1994, seven years later in the country there was an extremely severe civil war. So we have no choice but to pass such a law. By the way, quite briefly, there are things within it that are extremely important, and they are framed as basic repers or supporting points around which the entire language policy of Bulgaria needs to be built. One of the most important things we have placed inside is the Institute for Bulgarian Language. Here several times it has been said that the Institute, not the Institute, but the Cultural Institute, was said here several times that, you see, we don't need it because we have the Institute of Bulgarian Language. Well, let's say Spain has an institute called Cervantes. Germany has the Goethe Institute. England and France also have similar centres which deal not only with the preservation of language purity in the respective official language but also with the promotion of the respective national culture respectively Spanish, German, French, English, of course, and these are world cultures that have their influence. We are the oldest country in Europe, we do not have such an institute, and we have something to show, and when several times it happened, and me included, to explain, including a few days ago, there was a conversation with a foreign journalist who asked what is our policy and position in relation to the clashes of the East, we explained that in the end we are a country that has had its own cultural influence, that Bulgaria is one of the countries that has created the civilization of today's Europe. And he said to me, "Do you believe this thing?" And I explained to him that this is something that we Bulgarians know because it is a fact. He said, "Well, we don't know it, you have to show me if it really is. Do you have evidence in this direction? This is where each of us should think that we need at least one institution that not only regulates the status of the Bulgarian language and protects it from the foreign influences they have, I repeat, all the others, even the French have one, although they are one of the most spoken world languages, but they are also worried about the influence of English. For years there has been a movement directed against the so-called French or French-English, which is mainly used in Paris and in the larger centres of the French Republic, as it is very modern, as well as in Bulgaria, to replace French words and expressions with English. This is what the French do, who cannot under any circumstances be accused of being people who have problems with their language and with their culture. What about us? Turn around and see how they talk and how younger people communicate with each other. Every second word should be English because it sounds fashionable because it sounds good not to use different words that there are other MPs who can give examples in this regard and each one of them will be in place. The role of this bill is extremely important. Unfortunately, the important bills are always underestimated, for one very simple reason, this particular one is underestimated. We take our language for granted, no one does the math that one day it may be gone, but around us is full of examples of how languages can be melted down, crushed, destroyed. Not to mention that we ourselves are the most victims of this, because there are a lot of territories on the Balkan Peninsula, which only until 50-60 years ago have been inhabited with people, mainly Bulgarian-language, currently there are hardly any who can speak in Bulgarian.......................... just the language is crushed. And right now this thing is kind of happening in our country as weird and funny as that sounds. From this point of view, I appeal to the following: let us not take the visible things for granted. As freedom is not for granted, it is won and today we may not have it, and tomorrow we may not have it, and language is not for granted, because even in Bulgaria there is an ethnographic group that does not speak Bulgarian for mother tongue, although it is Bulgarian by origin and these people have a Bulgarian self-awareness, but just in a period of time back in the years they have lost this Bulgarian language. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Today we are in a situation where because of globalisation and because of the huge...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u180	The weather, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u181	Yeah, I'm graduating, another 20 seconds. Today we are in a situation where, because of globalisation and the enormous cultural pressure of the English language, not only against us, of course, but against all the other smaller languages and nations, we are facing the challenge of preserving our language as it is now. He's gonna change, he's gonna change, but he's gonna have to change in the way we decide. And if there will be new words in it, let them be as the Bulgarian experts decide, let them be words created by other Bulgarian words, as there was such a process at the end of IX and the beginning of the X century, because otherwise what we think for granted will disappear. Because 1,000 years ago Bulgarian language was spoken from the Tatras and the North Carpathians to Thermopylae, and now you see the situation we have come to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u182	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. [[Reply.]] Yes, Mr. Valchev, are you speaking? I'll put you on the record. First, Peter Petrov's procedure for speaking. Alexandra Korcheva is also for speech, Iskren Mitev is for speech, Plamen Nikolov is for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u183	Mr President, in order to ensure that all Members of the Parliament are able to speak, we propose an increase in the plenary sitting until this item is exhausted from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-12.u184	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. The procedural proposal from Peter Petrov is to extend the current plenary session until the end of this paragraph of the Programme, namely the first vote of the Bulgarian Language Bill. Voting mode. They voted 125 MPs: 26, against 44, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. We've run out of time for this sitting. I wrote for speech: Krasimir Valchev, Iskren Mitev, Alexandra Korcheva, Nastimir Ananiev, Plamen Nikolov, Luben Dilov, Antonia Dimitrova and Antoaneta Tsoneva. Before we're done, I'll read you the parliamentary control message. Parliamentary Control Communication on 13 May 2022, Friday: 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Kiril Petkov will answer two questions from the MPs Jayhan Ibryamov; and Slavena Tocheva. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev will answer three questions from the MPs Rumen Hristov; Slavena Tocheva; and Nikolay Drenchev; and one question from the MP Tsoncho Ganev. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Governance Kalina Konstantinova will answer a question from the MPs Blagovest Kirilov, Ivan Petkov and Ilian Yonchev; and a question from the MPs Stoyan Taslakov and Nikola Dimitrov. 4. Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policies and Minister for Environment and Water Borislav Sandov will answer a question from the MP Emil Georgiev. 5. Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska will answer a question from the MP Radomir Cholakov. 6. Defence Minister Dragomir Zakov will answer one question from MP Petar Petrov. 7. Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadzhov will answer four questions from the MPs Vassil Stefanov; Adlen Shevked, Bajram Bajram, Pavlin Krastev and Mukaddes Nalbant; Nikolina Angelkova; and Stoil Stoilov. 8. Minister of Health Asena Serbenova will answer seven questions from the MPs Alexander Simidchiev; Stefan Apostolov; Stefan Shilev and Ivan Totev; Iliana Zhekova; and Ivaylo Hristov. [[two questions]] 9. The Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov will answer two questions from the MPs Tsveta Galunova; and Petar Petrov; and a question from the MP Lyubomir Kariminski. 10. The Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov will answer three questions from the MPs Petar Petrov; Zornitsa Stratieva and Alexander Dunchev; and Kostadin Stoykov; and one question from the MP Mladen Shishkov. 11. The Minister of Innovation and Growth Daniel Lorre will answer a question from the National Representative Nikolay Drenchev. 12. The Minister of Electronic Governance Bozidar Bojanov will answer two questions from the MPs Dimitar Nikolov; and Blagovest Kirilov and Ivan Petkov. 13. Energy Minister Aleksandar Nikolov will answer two questions from the MPs Petar Kulenski; and Hristo Terziyski. 14. The Minister of Tourism Hristo Prodanov will answer three questions from the MPs Nikolina Angelkova; Stoyan Mihalev; and Slavena Tocheva; and a question from the MPs Nebi Kabak and Mumun Mummun. 15. Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov will answer 80 questions from the MPs Hairi Sadakov (three questions) ; Elhan Kulkov ; Pavlin Krastev (three questions) ; Adlen Shevked (four questions) ; Bajram Bajram (four questions) ; Devdet Chakarov ; Halil Letifov ; Sevim Ali (four questions) ; Esheref Esheref (four questions) ; Stanislav Anastasov (three questions) ; Peter Chobanov (four questions) ; Sezgin Mehmed (four questions) ; Dimitar Avramov (four questions) ; Ramadan Atalai (four questions) ; Guner Ahmed; Tsvetan Enchev (three questions) ; Erdan Eradan Ebatin (four questions (four questions) ; Jordan Tzanev (four questions). On the basis of art. 92, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly due to absence for respectable reasons of Members of the National Assembly shall be postponed the answers to: - a question from the MP Hristo Gazhev to the Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev; - a question from the MP Krum Zarkov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Georgi Gokov. On the basis of art. 92, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly due to urgent commitments, answers to questions with written answer from: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Cyril Petkov; - Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov; - Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov; - Minister of Defence Dragomir Zakov; - Minister of Energy Alexander Nikolov. That's why I'm closing today's session. The next meeting will be held tomorrow at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
