ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Before we begin on the agenda, I will make a procedural proposal. On the basis of art. 47, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that, as item 2 of the agenda for today's meeting following the completion of the blitzcontrol, a draft decision on the acceptance of conditions for access to the buildings of the National Assembly in the context of an exceptional epidemic situation, and that the current paragraph of the second paragraph of regular parliamentary control shall be renumbered as point 3 and therefore the meeting shall be extended until the regular parliamentary control has been completed. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will make a reverse proposal, namely not to include the second item proposed by the President of the National Assembly as an emergency item on the agenda with the text thus mentioned, and the considerations are simple and clear to me. In the last few days, we have witnessed an unprecedented violation of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly by the ruling coalition in several directions. In the first place, extraordinary committees were called on the Health and Legal Committees, with a political PR of the ruling coalition being explained by extraordinaryness, exclusivity, all conditions that are not available under art. 45, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In fact, this political PR aims only to limit opposition representatives to access the buildings of the National Assembly. Next, although we referred to the President yesterday, both opposition MPs and ruling party MPs, that the same and their representatives were not admitted to this extraordinary meeting of the Health Commission, unfortunately, at this time this signal, made by the highest tribune of the state, remains only one good wish. I hope that's not the case. Not only that, but the President of the Health Commission, who must organise and hold these extraordinary meetings, and unfortunately, the members of the ARC and the ARC are not invited to the meeting on Wednesday, was brought to the Legal Commission yesterday to justify the decision taken in violation of the National Assembly's Rules. Next, the Rules of Procedure are also addressed because yesterday an extraordinary meeting of the Legal Committee was held at the same time as the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, precisely in order to restrict the power of the Constitution of Members of the National Assembly to participate in a committee, including myself. Honourable President, I would ask you today to exercise your powers under the Rules of Procedure and Constitution, as you have done before, and not to allow this proposal on the agenda. I appeal to my fellow Members: let us maintain common sense and follow these Rules if we want this Parliament to work normally. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u3	Colleagues, we are voting on the proposal I have made to change the agenda. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u4	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u5	They voted 165 MPs: for 101, against 35, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. We move on to item one of the agenda for today: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. We begin with the questions to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Deputy Prime Ministers who are present in today's meeting. Is there a question? I won't. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS? Mrs. Zaharieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u6	Dear Prime Minister, dear Deputy Prime Ministers, dear colleagues! My question is to you, Prime Minister, always up-to-date and is very close to the hearts of many of the Bulgarian citizens, namely the Republic of Northern Macedonia. In your interview, if I am not mistaken on 14 December, in the Financial Times, you say that Bulgaria will propose a quote to you: a new process for the Republic of Northern Macedonia, very fast, with a limited time frame for just six months. At the same time, as Foreign Minister Ganchevska takes office, he says that I quote: "For now there will be no change in the position of the Republic of Bulgaria towards the Republic of Northern Macedonia. " A few days ago, we learn from your Burbank interview that you will visit Skopje as soon as the new government there took an oath. Again from media, not from a press release from the Council of Ministers, we learn that your foreign policy adviser was in Skopje on January 2nd this year. Seemingly from the public reactions of some of your coalition partners, these plans of yours have obviously not been consistent with them. Obvious to all Bulgarian citizens is the lack of unity and coordination on this topic between the parties in the ruling coalition and between the members of the Council of Ministers. That's really pathetic. I'm not saying this to pick a fight, because so far, regardless of our political differences, regardless of our political passions, sometimes we have managed to maintain a national consensus on this subject. This was also evident in the vote of the Treaty in the National Assembly of 2017, and in the adoption of the Declaration in Parliament at the end of 2019. In this regard, my question to you is this: do you intend to change the existing national agreement and replace it with something else? If so, will this be addressed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with your coalition partners and when will the government, if so, inform the National Assembly and the Bulgarian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u8	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to make it very clear because there are all kinds of speculations about the position of the Republic of Bulgaria in the negotiation process with the Republic of Northern Macedonia remains in the points just as we have done in our coalition agreement, which was broadcast online and all Bulgarian citizens managed to see it. This position is the same and we build it with five separate, different committees to build on these relations. I do not understand why 2021 we do not have a flight from Sofia to Skopje. I don't understand why 2021 we don't have one Sofia train line. I don't understand why we don't have a common cultural calendar. I don't understand why we have no more interaction between our businesses. These five groups will be precisely in these areas of infrastructure, culture, European integration, with which we are ready to help our neighbours fight corruption, for example. This is a fundamental principle for membership in the Union, as well as to talk about important things, such as the Historical Commission to continue its work. Colleagues, I would like to assure you on your question in particular: in our coalition we have an absolutely clear common position which is coherent before the eyes of the entire Bulgarian people. We have full coordination in the Council of Ministers on the subject and with the fact that we are going to talks on 18 January, we show that good neighbourliness is a fundamental principle of our relations with Northern Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u9	Thank you. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u10	Dear Prime Minister, I didn't understand either, I'm afraid you'll soon find out why. Everything you offer as working groups is enshrined in the Treaty. Also, if I'm not mistaken, February, last year already, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the previous regular government sent out a very detailed roadmap with all those things you list. Do you know when they volunteered to respond with very specific deadlines, by the way, and for the working groups that you propose, and for Corridor No 8, and for hate language to be offered by both sides, because there is a language of hatred in Bulgaria, to propose responsible institutions to respond, to seek a solution for all that you speak, do you know when they volunteered to respond? On December 20th, deadlines were removed, concrete commitments and so on. This is indeed a complex subject, and this should not be the relationship between two neighbouring countries, on top of all the closest ones. Good luck to you. Another is the question: I personally wish you would invite the Prime Minister here and I also wish their President would finally come to Bulgaria, for two years now, three years, refuse to come, but I wish you success and I very much hope that we do not learn from the media about the government's plans. Because everything I've listed, we've learned from the media. Not from the Council of Ministers, not even from the Bulgarian media. It does not matter what they are, we learned from the media. Good luck to you. I'm afraid you'll find out very soon why these things aren't there. I hope that relations will really change for the good of both countries, but I say again: do not destroy the national consensus that has been reached on this subject. And you will not violate it when you inform us regularly about your actions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u11	Thank you. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Petkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u12	Thank you for your positive wish. Indeed, this is a very important issue for both Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia. I hope that our government will show the difference between good plans and realised results. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u13	Thank you. From the parliamentary group of the DPS Peter Chobanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! First, to congratulate you on the New Year, to wish you health and success! You know that in the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, from the very beginning, we also state that our successive actions show that we are for the restoration of parliamentaryism, normality, democracy and transparency in relations between the institutions and the people of the country. Unfortunately, there are some signals that some of the relapses of the past are repeated in your initial actions, and I hope that this is only because of the short time that has still passed. We saw in the budget update some elements of the so-called model of the SUV. We have seen that the decision to allocate funds at the end of the year is on the brink of procedures and, by the end of December, we have seen that over 9 billion expenditures have been accounted for, of which 2.9 billion have probably been transferred for this 2022, which, as we have spoken in the past, produces quite a lot of inefficiency and therefore inflationary pressure when so much expenditure is generated in such a short period of time. From the point of view, as we said, of our constructiveness, my question to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev is: will you continue this fiscal strategy, which has been implemented for so many years by GERB, or do you intend to change the strategy and when and will you provide the parliament with a more detailed breakdown of these 9 billion for what exactly were they spent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u16	Mr. Chobanov, thank you for your wishes and for your question. A very detailed breakdown of these costs was provided at a press conference at the Ministry of Finance, literally PMS, and for absolutely all costs. In order not to go into detail, what I'm going to tell you is that: this year's expenditures, the nine billion, include: 2 billion. 244 million, which is the cost of most of which were voted in the business support update; 2 billion. 577.8 million social expenditures was also voted in the update, i.e. costs incurred directly under the instructions of the National Assembly; 4 billion. 116.5 million maintenance costs for the state administration for comparison, past years were 4.6 billion, 4.6 billion, 2019, 4.9 billion, 2020, i.e. 500 million less this year. And as you said, $2 billion. 897 million expenditures on accounts a foreign account, as they say, for 2022. The main items were distributed by parliament in these funds a 1 billion. 200 million, which went to support the pensioners, you know 750 million; 450 million to support the business in view of the high electricity prices and some 410 million, which were saved by the state administration, as it became clear, which also went to support the business for the high electricity prices. If there is a need for a more detailed breakdown, of course, it can be provided. This has nothing to do with New Year's spending on rooftops of buildings, fountains, roads and so on, which I assume you refer. All these costs are mainly in the social systems.. are not in specific projects and are in no way structured towards one or another municipalities, or one or other favorite projects of power. The reason why this is being done at this time is because, as you know, the update took place relatively late in the year, part of the costs could not have been modified at least this has been said to me in time, and either the schemes have been developed in time and, for example, the cost of supporting air carriers has been postponed from 2021 to 2022, and a small part of the cost of supporting tourism has also been postponed for the same reason. We hope with a normal budgetary procedure starting this year, as well as with the planned update, which will set up the government's policies, in the middle of 2022, that such spending will not be necessary in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. For a line, Mr. Chobanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your reply, of course, send a more detailed reference to see the values in particular. We'll be able to talk to them in the Budget Committee. What is more important is, indeed, that the cost profile of the next year should be more balanced in terms of greater efficiency, of course, it is important and how the issue will be resolved with regard to the means that this year has not been found a solution for the API, which can burden the next budget, accordingly additional funds should be provided for in this regard. Of course, you will probably, when you present the new draft budget, take it into account and bear in mind that these funds in foreign accounts, which still do not give a clear picture of how exactly a fiscal year ends, are not such a good tool and effective and can be taken into account this year as a deficit on a charged basis, of course, depending on their nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u19	Thank you. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Vassilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u20	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u21	Thank you. Now on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u22	Dear Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! My question is to Mrs Cornelia Ninova, Deputy Prime Minister. Ms. Ninova, about 20 years ago for the first time the European Commission defined Bulgaria's economy as a functioning market economy, and as is known, the market economy is a mechanism of interaction between demand and supply. And since one of the main tasks of each government, given that the market economies of all the EU member states, and not only, are regulated, albeit to a different extent, are regulating the balance of interests between producers and consumers. In this regard, the Bulgarian government and you have recently stated that you have a strategy and intend to take concrete steps to increase the level of protection of Bulgarian consumers. Would you please tell us what these specific steps are, what initiatives will you take, the government and you, because consumer protection is in your portfolio, with a view to increasing the level of protection of Bulgarian buyers and consumers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u23	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Happy New Year! I wish you to be healthy and successful! Let me congratulate today Ivanov Day on all the names in the hall and thousands of Bulgarians outside the hall! [[Applause.]] Now specifically on the subject. Dear colleagues, the energy crisis, the impact of the crisis and the economic consequences of the crisis, as well as the social problems that pressured Bulgarian citizens, have objective reasons, but there are subjective factors as well. The objective reasons are: the world markets, the state of the markets, but there are also cases where subjectively there are entities who will try to accumulate profits on the back of the Bulgarian people in these difficult times. Our role is to show that the state stands by its citizens and tries to protect them from such unfair, unfair commercial practices and we government are determined to show that in this difficult situation there is a country that will protect consumers. Yes, we have announced that we are making consumer policy an absolute priority, in particular of the Ministry of Economy and Industry, but generally of the Bulgarian government. And in the first 10 days, we have taken concrete steps, and there will be further steps that I would like to announce to you today. The first thing that we took was an order through the Consumer Protection Commission, which is the authority set out in the Law to take measures that stopped the intention of mobile operators to increase the cost of their customers' service. Let me explain a little on this subject, because in addition to being very important to thousands of people, there has also been a disagreement in the public domain. By law and in the contracts that mobile operators have signed with their customers, they can only raise the price once a year, and not as they decide, but after the National Statistical Institute announced the inflation index. Unfortunately, at the end of the year, two of the mobile operators took the liberty of announcing and sending messages to their customers in violation of the contracts they signed with them and in breach of the requirements of the Law that they would increase prices not as much as the law allows them for one year once a year, but with a reverse date. For 2021 and for 2020. We took immediately measures and the Commission issued an order declaring this unfair commercial practice. That means they can't raise prices right now. The order has been put into the so-called pre-execution, meaning it is in effect. And I address the Bulgarian citizens who write us a lot, calling: at the moment they cannot raise your price and with a penny, the order is in force. But, of course, the operators have taken measures that the law allows them to take, and they are appealing our order in court. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We await the outcome of the judgment. If the court rejects the Commission's Consumer Protection Order, they will increase prices as they intend by more than the law allows. If the court respects our order, they will only be able to raise prices for 2021. The first concrete step. Second of all... [[Reply: "Search! "]] Okay, I'll take it from you, I've been a MP until recently, and I respect the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, and I hope I can continue in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u25	No yelling, please. Mr. Gechev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u26	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you have finished exactly where the joint work of the government and parliament should continue, because you said that consumer protection is, of course, within the framework of the judgments of the court, and they are based on the laws. And in this regard, my reply is, and my recommendation to myself is that this is: both the government and we in Parliament to continue working on a very simple line, and it is the Bulgarian legislation to use all the protection laws and regulations that are implemented by our partners in the European Union, and to make so that Bulgarian and especially foreign producers... You remember that we led a long and successful finally fight against the retail chains, which in some cases violated the interests of Bulgarian buyers and suppliers, and it is that foreign and Bulgarian companies have the same behaviour in Bulgaria and work under the same legal conditions as consumers in Germany, in France, in the Czech Republic and Poland. That is, on the basis of an extended comparative analysis of the laws concerning consumers, we should make the Bulgarians feel in Bulgaria the same way as our partners from other European countries, because Bulgaria is not only not a different quality from them, but at least at their level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u27	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u28	In this regard, honourable Members, we urgently need a legal framework for collecting receivables from collector companies, and this would be the second to report to you that the government has made in the short time since you elected us. In Bulgaria there is no legislative framework for collection of claims and you know that it is a huge problem for many people in Bulgaria that unregistered, unknown, illegitimate companies go to villages and cities, pressure people, harass them, burden their claims with interest, fees that are not due to them, and this terror continues, and is currently excessive because of the crises, because of the difficult situation, the impoverishment of people and the inability of some of them to serve their loans. Yesterday, on our initiative, we triggered a clause in the coalition treaty for government and called for the first time among the coalition partners a council to discuss the legislation of the collector companies. You probably don't know, but there are 17 collectors registered at BNB who can collect consumer bank loans. From now on, at least from the information we have tried to collect, there are about 40 companies in Bulgaria that are neither licensed nor registered, nor proven capital, nor legitimate shareholders or participants who go around the country and harass the people. This can't stay that way! I appeal to the majority, but of course to the opposition. Several times in the years back, we have tried to solve this problem with the legal requirements, whether in the Law on Consumer Protection, whether we will submit a whole new law, I make a commitment that soon I will bring it in on behalf of the Council of Ministers, I will propose it to the Council of Ministers and we will submit it here. We must settle this matter because it affects the lives of thousands of Bulgarians. I want to warn you that there will be resistance. We already feel that resistance. Yesterday in the Council, in which we discussed the issue, one of the experts, a lawyer and financier, has calculated and officially told the Council that this is an interest that moves between 4 billion and 5 billion. lv. It is up to us to do our job, it is up to you, it is up to the majority and the opposition, whether we bring this work to the end, whether the words we are telling you today will become reality, or once again this issue will be covered. Since I do not have time again, I just want to fix two more topics, which we will put in the soonest time to the attention of the National Assembly: the issue of private judicial contractors and the question of possible measures against speculation in the market and an illegal increase in prices, which again hits the pocket of millions of Bulgarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u29	Thank you. There is such a people? There's no question about it. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? No questions asked. From rebirth? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u30	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister! In view of your policy, my question is largely protocol, but I still want to ask it so that the Bulgarian citizens can hear your answer. At present, the policy for implementing restrictive measures is obviously not effective, is not successful and is absolutely harmful to the interests of more than 80% of Bulgarian citizens. The Green Certificates introduced a very harmful practice for forced vaccination and introduced tax work to a large part of the Bulgarians. It's hard to say exactly how much, but there's certainly more than a million and a half that pay a fee every week to be able to go to work by having to do tests. Those who do not want to be vaccinated must take tests to allow them to be admitted to their jobs. My question to you is as follows, it is very short: do you intend to remove the green certificate and if so, when? Especially in view of the fact that there is a very big protest scheduled and already scheduled in Sofia next week on Wednesday, I also believe that these issues should not be resolved on the street, but here in plenary, also in the Council of Ministers, because the policy at the moment of the government is absolutely not affected by the parliamentary majority as a whole, because the decision to introduce the green certificate is not of parliament, but of the Minister of Health. We have tabled a proposal in the Health Act for a change in this situation. Of course, until this thing happens, if at all, it will take time, however, we believe that these measures, as they are harmful and because they are determined to create a very serious division and attitude for clashes in society, must be withdrawn or at least state their intention to withdraw. So I want to hear from you an answer to the question: when, how, and in what way do you intend to overcome the division in society and the removal of the green certificate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u31	Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u32	Thanks for asking. A few things to be made absolutely clear by this tribune. First of all, there is no mandatory vaccination. This government will not require mandatory vaccination. Such mandatory vaccination will not be a fact while I am prime minister. Point one. Second point, vaccination is currently the fundamental way to overcome the crisis and I will tell you a few statistics. Yesterday, not to mention in general talk, 72 people died of a horse. Only two of them were vaccinated, all of them without a vaccine. In the past 14 days, 944 people have died, and only 71 of them have been vaccinated if we do not count the false certificates for which we do not yet have full data and which will be one of the great struggles that we will make. In other words, I call you here, as Bulgarians, if we want to preserve our population, which, by the way, has decreased by 800,000, as we have understood, in the last 10 years, if we do not want to have more victims, let us all unite around the common strategy that Bulgaria must vaccinate its population in order to protect it. I don't want to be the prime minister counting these deaths. And everything else we do will be absolutely reckless, populist and improper for the life and health of the Bulgarian people. However, I can boast that since the new programme started on 1 January with additional voluntary information of the Bulgarian population, with the possibility of incentives, over 92 thousand people have been vaccinated in the last three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u33	What's the first dose?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u34	Professor, you will also have the right to a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u35	Yes, if you want, you can ask the next question, but I'll tell you exactly. 34 thousand yesterday, 32 thousand people the day before and 24 thousand the day before. This is the only way Bulgaria can preserve the health of its population and together, if we manage to do so, and when the crisis is over and we have a vaccinated population, the green certificate will become unnecessary. So here is our common cause to fight for the life and health of the Bulgarians. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u36	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Here's a line, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u37	Prime Minister, I didn't hear an answer to my question. However, to show that we are well-intentioned, I would say that we, like you, believe that vaccination should not be mandatory. Maybe you didn't hear me talking about forced vaccination. There's a difference. At the moment, we have forced, not mandatory vaccination. Of course, it is nice to hear from this tribune and from the highest person in the country of leadership that there will be no mandatory vaccination. I very much hope that you will keep your assurance, of course, if you make your decisions and not someone else for you. Secondly, what I want to say is that it is good that you have decided to do an awareness campaign for additional incentives. We don't have anything against that. Do it. It's a good thing there are people who want to be vaccinated. After all, this should be a voluntary choice and we have always stated that vaccination should be voluntary because neither rights nor obligations should arise from it and there should be no division based on whether someone has been vaccinated against COVID-19 or not. If you decide to pursue such a policy, we will support you in this respect, because we always thought that the choice should be informed and voluntary. But the green certificate does not allow for a choice, it does not allow for a solution that is different from what is predated... or you have a green certificate, or you do not go to work. That's the way it is right now. Apropo, that is what you are trying to do, or rather your majority here in Parliament with the proposed solution. We'll see what happens. It'll be interesting. Let us see how they will stop us when we decide to enter parliament, but we will comment on this further. The point is that if you don't commit to a specific deadline, yet you are the people who have all the data, they come to you first, it's normal what you say, now we learn it from you about these 90 and how many thousands you mentioned for the last three days vaccinated, if you can't make a simple assessment and say, well, let's say, in three days we have 90 thousand, and when it reaches some percentage, we'll remove the green certificate. That's what I wanted to hear. Say and commit to numbers. To put it this way, we have four million vaccinated or five million vaccinated in a population, which is officially six and a half million, and actually less than six million, and at some point we know that, for example, the green certificate will be removed in two days, two weeks, two months. People need peace. If this calmness is not given to them by you, I believe that next week there will be moments of very serious concern, and that is why you will be responsible... [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u38	Mr. Kostadinov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u39	Don't worry. There'll be a white bus for you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u40	Mr. Kostadinov, next week there will be a protest that can only take place in one way. [[Noise and lines.]] And no such address to colleagues about the white bus. It's not right, at least. No notes, but... Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u41	Dear colleagues, we should actually stop pointing fingers at who this is responsible for. It's all of us's responsibility. When there will be a suspension of the use of the green certificate depends on only one... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u42	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u43	...how many people are sick, how many people are in the hospital? We have 4790 patients right now. That's almost 50% of the capacity we can take.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u44	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u45	Professor, not from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u46	If we don't make all the efforts together to vaccinate people in the most informed way, not necessarily, again, we cannot answer this question, so let's work together on this topic and not try to make provocations. I just want to say about the protests, because I want you to understand. I've been to the protests in front of the white bus, I've been to the protests at GERB, I've been to all the protests. I welcome the protests. We're not afraid of protests. Even this is the way in which citizens can express their opinion, and I welcome any citizen who opposes our policy to express his opinion, so that the last thing we fear is protests. The other thing I want you to know is that I think it's irresponsible in the middle of the next wave to make these people come together and infect each other next week. If that's what you do, I will personally declare it wrong policy. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u47	Silence!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u48	We must either work on this topic together or make populist speeches and wrong policy. So I urge you to be all responsible. This time, there's no one else to blame. It's gonna be us if we don't do it. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u49	Thank you. Moving on to the second round of questions. Are there any questions from? Continue Changing? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u50	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Sandov. I would like to ask: what is its vision in relation to Directive 2019/904, according to which by 2029 we have to achieve the objective of recycling our plastic bottles to 90%, and we have an intermediate target by 2025 that percentage to be 77%? So the motivation I think is clear. The achievement of this objective would not only lead to the positive effect of saving resources, including energy, but also to reducing the pressure on our landfills for waste, which are currently overloaded and generate significant environmental problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u51	Mr. Sandov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Mr. Petkov, fellow Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, guests, spectators! If I had been asked at an earlier stage, I would have prepared a specific response in this direction, but in a few words I just want to say that Bulgaria at this stage can hardly achieve this goal for the requirements of European legislation concerning a specific percentage of recycling from plastic packaging. To do this, we must make a cardinal change. One of these topics that is currently being discussed at the Ministry of Environment and Water and will be proposed to the Council of Ministers, I hope, and to you as MPs, to approve it, is the introduction of vending machines. Vending machines is a way to change the approach and that Bulgarian citizens can return all these plastic packagings on their own to a machine, especially this type of plastic packaging, from which to receive back a receipt or direct remuneration that they can use to buy new ones and thus have an incentive not to consume so much plastic. I would be happy to answer if you ask a specific question and I have time to prepare a specific answer to make it clearer for the MPs as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u53	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u54	Thanks for the answer. Yes, the introduction of a deposit system would indeed fulfil that objective. We have examples from other countries where in just one year of 30% the percentage of recycled plastic bottles has reached 70% and over two years 90% have been reached. Thanks for the answer, and next time I'll be more specific.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Zarkin. There's no desire for a doppelganger. We are moving on to the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. Here you go, Jezko Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Deputy Prime Minister! Allow me first to greet the lords both in the hall and throughout the country. My question is related to the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and is aimed at Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev. There is a note of optimism in me that the government is increasingly aware of the importance of the Plan and how quickly it needs to be adopted. Naturally, here we should not run away from the topic that the plan should be very well combined with other financial instruments and at all opportunities for funds from Europe, namely the Innovation Fund, the Modernization Fund, the JTF, and put together a proper model in which really all Bulgarian citizens, the business, local authorities can benefit from these funds. This optimism, which is with me, will continue to grow if I see in the final version of the Plan transformed projects and the return of important projects for the citizens, such as the renovation of the single-family residential buildings, as there are hundreds of thousands on the territory of the country, and for which the Bulgarian citizens, through their representatives here in the Chamber, appeal again to be able to attend the Plan. It will certainly be approved by the European Commission. My specific question is this. On 4 January this year, you mentioned to the media that you had communication and personal meetings with the European Commission in connection with the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, in the part of the European Commission, by finding the best approach for both the Bulgarian country and the European Commission. It is interesting for me to clarify exactly what the talks took place and what were the agreed views reached between the Bulgarian country and the European Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u57	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u58	Thanks for asking. The negotiations, as you know, are still going on. We are yet to send out the new projects, as you said, which are bet on the Plan. The conversations were very specific and very clear. From Bulgaria's point of view, I made it clear that raising our dependence on gas means that someone else should turn on and off electricity in the country. We cannot replace an independent Bulgarian source, such as the coal in the Marishka Basin, with an imported source and from this point of view, the construction of a steam-gas plant is considered completely inappropriate. On the part of the European Commission, this was accepted and there was a question: "Well, as there will be no power plant, what basic capacity can be built or how can coal dependence be reduced as a source of energy?" What we have reached, and the checks we are working on are a combination of waste utilization instead of the Waste Factory to be in the center of Sofia, the utilization of waste in the highest technology can happen in the Marishka pool; a very large-scale development of batteries at system level we are talking about over 12 thousand. The megawatt hour that can be submitted, which is almost twice the capacity of what the PAVEC can now pass, and these batteries are located around the country relatively close to the consumers of electricity. Much more serious development of geothermal energy, where we had meetings with colleagues from Turkey who have built, as you know, over 1800 megawatts generating geothermal capacities, with which we have reviewed what we currently have available in Bulgaria as data, and we can quite safely bet over 400 megawatt geothermal energy that will happen until 2026, and in fact this combination of generating capacities to help us reduce our dependence on coal. When we talk about the battery complex, this comes with local production, as this is a very serious capacity that will be built in the next four years. This local production, just combining the various JTF funds, can be laid down in the Marishka Basin so that there can be a smooth transfer of jobs, highly paid, from existing capacities to this production. As we have talked, there must be a large industrial area developing there. This would be a first step in this development. So we achieve the goals of green transformation of the Bulgarian energy with base capacity, with sufficient security of the electricity system, additional stability in any way to impose a shocking closure of the mines in the complex, in any way affecting the possibility of highly paid jobs in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u59	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Here's a line for you, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Vassilev, I hope I heard correctly from you that in the Marishka pool in perspective waste will be burned, not coal. And perhaps what is of great importance to the people working in the energy sector and in the Marishka Basin had one particular remark and one particular commitment during the caretaker government, and it is the closing of coal energy at a certain date and closing of capacities within 1400 megawatts by 2026, with a specific note not to be 1400 megawatts, and on the part of the Commission they want at least 1600 megawatts to be closed. In this regard, are such commitments made, and if they are made, on what basis, since it is ultimately not clear by 2026 will we have alternative power in the Marishka Basin? What you mentioned about the steam-gas plants means that a billion resources will be released after you say that the government is giving up this type of investment. And once again, I would like to insist and hear from you: will the government undertake to repay the funds for renovation, renovation of single-family residential buildings, in order to preserve people in small regions, providing them with a standard of living, in combination with the project, which, thank God, has been reserved for solar and photovoltaic panels for the production of hot water and electricity, which will give citizens a good living environment without leaving their momentary habitation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u61	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u62	Thanks for the supplementary questions. As regards whether specific capacity closure commitments have been made, the answer is not available to megawatts which are made as specific commitments to be closed. There is a concrete commitment, a poet, to reduce CO2 emissions from coal energy as a whole in the country, which enables us to take a purely technologically different combination of solutions, not to close specific capacities or specific mines. Regarding the second question about the single-family buildings, I am directly telling you that this project is not known in detail. I can take a look and see if there's any economic sense in it. At first reading, I'm not very optimistic that we have to choose which people to sanitize the houses, most harshly put. But if there are any objective criteria and any more rational sense in this project, I will gladly look at it and see if it makes sense to put it back into the Plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u63	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. From the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! Prime Minister, my question is for you. You were Minister of Economy from May last year to the end of September and you are prime minister from December to now. This means that you have practically managed for nearly 7 months. 12 years ago, when GERB came to power with the only request that they were bearers of the new, and they like you said they were bearers of the change, and during those years of their management, especially in the years when there were elections autumn, in the years 2011-a, 2013, 2015-a, 2018 and 2019, in regions where they manage the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, where mayors are from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, in particular the people who have voted trust in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, were punished for one reason or another by the state. What's this about? However, they claimed firewood almost a year before the winter period and the heating season and paid according to an established timetable from the territorial branch of the respective state forestry their firewood, they were left without firewood and at best received firewood during the months of January and February. 12 years later, since GERB ruled, and 7.8 months since, Mr. Prime Minister, you have ruled the country, there is nothing new under the sun... the old song is sung in a new voice. I can give you a specific example in the district of Bourgas, the municipality of Rouen, where the country completely deserted from its obligations... how before the New Year holidays, in January over 1200 families were left without firewood. So my specific question to you, Mr. Prime Minister, is: is this the change that you have spoken about and proclaimed over the last 7 months, and do you insist on continuing with these policies inherited from GERB as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u65	Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u66	Thanks for asking. You obviously think that we have superpowers, that while we are campaigning for four months, we are both managing the economy and the forests of Bulgaria. Unfortunately, that's not a fact. I was Minister of Economy for four months. I think that's absolutely clear to everyone. But I want to tell you again very clearly that from now on there will be no one who is the mayor of whom it is. We have Bulgarian citizens, we have Bulgarian municipalities - everyone should be equal. There won't be that kind of preferences. We don't play political games. The only thing we want to achieve is the well-being of all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u67	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, I warmly thank you for the answer I received from you, and I hope that this was a coincidence indeed from many elections in the autumn and in a municipality operated by I would very clearly and categorically like to express that we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are urging once and for all to end this vicious practice of creating an artificial problem by regional directorates and territorial divisions of state forest farms in the supply of firewood to the local population, thus quite purposefully opposing people to each other. Because no Bulgarian citizen, honourable colleagues, regardless of which religion he preaches, regardless of which political party he votes for, does not deserve this offensive anti-human attitude. Leaving elderly people and families with small children without heating in the middle of the winter season means really not having a shred of morality and humanity. Therefore, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will monitor this process very closely and will alert the Bulgarian institutions about any irregularities in the system. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u69	Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u70	Thanks for asking. You obviously think that we have superpowers, that while we are campaigning for four months, we are both managing the economy and the forests of Bulgaria. Unfortunately, that's not a fact. I was Minister of Economy for four months. I think that's absolutely clear to everyone. But I want to tell you again very clearly that from now on, there will be no mayor of which one! We have Bulgarian citizens, we have Bulgarian municipalities all have to be equal. There's not gonna be that kind of reference. We don't play political games. The only thing we want to achieve is the well-being of all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u71	Thank you, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u72	Thank you. Will there be an asshole, Mr. Petkov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u73	Thank you. I would even urge you very carefully to follow this process not only in municipalities where there are mayors of DPS but in all municipalities. From now on, these divisions will not be. I know that the Minister of Agriculture has focused specifically on forest management and I hope that any such signals will be given to us as quickly as possible and if anyone thinks that he can use Bulgaria's natural resources for his own political purposes, I would like to be personally informed about this. [[Applause from DPS]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u74	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Is there a question for Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Prime Minister, my question is to you. A few days ago, at an international agency, you gave an interview in which you outlined the goals, the priorities of the government, the coalition government you led, and it is no coincidence that I stress coalition. When the government is coalition, then it is clear that it is based on a coalition agreement that we have cooked for a long time, it was not really very long, but it was quite productive and for the first time, in a very modern way, we showed how politics should be made in the 21st century. On the basis of this coalition agreement respectively you must meet the goals and priorities of the government. In this interview in the sector, you clearly stated the priorities, especially for the development of nuclear energy. In my opinion, of course, like any interview, whether it be Bulgarian or Western, sometimes things are taken out of context, because there you say you are giving the green light to the project "Kozloduy" but the project "Belene" is not going to happen. In our coalition agreement we have recorded that an analysis of the economic appropriateness of the lowest price and time for building new capacities should be made. Moreover, the experts in the sector are clear to us that in the future the demand for electricity will be enormous. I'm not just talking about the sector here, Mr. Prime Minister. [[I see Mr. Sandov is here, too]] In the transport sector, something is forgetting and not paying attention, there the transformation will really be creepy and the need for electricity for cars, for trucks will be huge. Even the European Commission recommends the construction of nearly 15 thousand. charging stations for electric vehicles. We must in some way provide this energy, all the more so that in order to respond to carbon neutrality, the closure of the base capacities will really happen. However, these outputs must be replaced if we really want there to be security for the Bulgarian economy and for the Bulgarian households. My question is in this context. Is this really one of the main objectives of the government's priorities, what you said about nuclear energy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u76	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u77	Thanks for asking. I am very happy that so far and our hope is that this will continue and that our actions will be clearly framed by our coalition agreement and we will clearly monitor that all commitments made will be implemented. From this point of view, I would like to assure you that the only priority, as you have said, of our government, will be to optimize the costs of electricity, on the one hand, to remove any possibility of influence from foreign countries on our energy system and at the same time to make sure that we are up to date and meeting the requirements of the European Union, so from now on it is a matter of work, analysis and accounts to achieve these three objectives, and I assure you that, as we have agreed in the coalition agreement, so we will act and expect joint work on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u78	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister. After the European Commission has issued an opinion that classifys nuclear energy and natural gas as pure fuels, giving them access to green funding, I would like to quote what your colleague, President Macron, says: "To guarantee France's energy independence to ensure electricity supply to our country and to achieve our goals, in particular carbon neutrality in 2050, we will resume the construction of nuclear reactors in our country. This is not a matter of geopolitical interest (I do not know why in Bulgaria, unfortunately, it has been so far, and we should rather look for the national interest rather than the geopolitical interest) but the national interest in building Ya-dre-ni re-ac-to-ri. Because, for example, if in Kozloduy it has to replace the going two reactors and in order not to become another government that will cut Kozloduy into scrap, then there must be a reactor there and this reactor can be financed, apropo, entirely by the company itself, by the nuclear power plant, which is ready to finance it without the state interfering, then we need more complementary capacities if we really want to ensure stable energy, stable supplies for the Bulgarian business, for the Bulgarian households, but also in the transport sector. I repeat, we are forgetting the transport sector and there the transformations will be huge and we must from now on...? by the way I also want to praise Minister Sandov, who said that there will really be an add-on for the electric cars, which, of course, is a solution of the entire government? but we have to go on this path, i.e. the needs in the coming years will be enormous. I hope, as you have given a tone, that the government will be visionary, that we really achieve the goals of meeting the needs of the region, and why not ahead of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u80	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u81	Thank you. I can assure you that this will be our only attempt to achieve national interests. This is the only priority that we have, so from this point of view, we have complete consensus. The other thing I would like to say is that we do see that there will be major reforms in the transport sector and the capacity for electricity production must be increased. I've been very hopeful with the last few conversations on the topic of geothermal energy plus the one about possible additional power plants. Geothermal energy is a Bulgarian wealth, which, in fact, until now, we have not used it at all. As we all know, we have mineral springs all over Bulgaria. Imagine if we could generate electricity, which is purely Bulgarian, base power and with the ability to scale. Our neighbours, especially in Turkey, have built 1.6 gigawatts in the last 10 years. So I'm absolutely with you. We need to do the whole analysis. Having a nuclear power plant in Bulgaria is an advantage not only for our electricity stability. As we know, some of our countries do not have the opportunity to do so, this could also be an export activity. So we do the whole analysis together and decide which are the cheapest, the most independent, the greenest and especially the most competitive ways for Bulgaria's future and to have an energy system that we know will give competitiveness to the Bulgarian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u82	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Is there a question from "There is such a people"? Andrei Chorbanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u83	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister and Ministers, honourable Members. With us there is some ambiguity the fact and mixing of the big problem that we have in the country and in the world, of course, pandemic, and mixing is mostly the attitude to vaccination and green certificates. I don't think the two have anything to do with it. We also believe that vaccination should be a voluntary act. Much of the people in the parliamentary group have been vaccinated and we assume that you have found a form and way to stimulate people to be vaccinated, although the payment of a sum would not exactly name it persuading for vaccination, while the issue of the health certificate is quite different. The health certificate already gives rights, also gives opportunities while vaccination is a choice for personal health, the choice of a citizen whether to enter the hospital, whether he will be hospitalized, whether he will die, in all the conventions of the things I say about vaccines. However, the health certificate constitutes a form of restriction. And once again, I would like to ask you, this time very clearly to give me an answer to this question. Do you think that the health certificate is what protects us as a nation and will stop the pandemic and for a reference whether you have consulted this position with the prime ministers of the Netherlands, Belgium, France and all countries that have 80, 85 and over 90% certified population. Just for reference, I'm going to say it a little bit slangy, to make it clearer at the moment, the strain of Omicron gassing the population certified just as a boar goes through a alfalfa, I'm sorry that Mr. Abrovsky is not in the room to appreciate my sense of humour. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u84	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u85	On this subject, I want to assure you that none of us want to have... Long-term green certificates are a restriction that does not work for the Bulgarian business or for our entire society. It's something none of us want. I have many friends with small businesses, with small restaurants, which limits their ability to be active. So really, we also realize that it is not the perfect solution, but at this moment we have only yesterday 5525 newly infected. It's not good, it's not perfect, but at this point, one of the decisions to bring something like this up in the middle of the new wave will, in my opinion, be a huge mistake. We don't like him. Believe me! However, in this case, only if you look at the correlation between vaccination and green certificate, unfortunately, the two things are very correlated, which means that if the green certificate is removed, another incentive is removed for vaccination as well. Just to say that the green certificate is not just a vaccination. There's an opportunity for a test. Yeah, it's not good. Yes, we even think about how to give people, especially pensioners, who are of particular importance to us, because their mortality is the highest, to think about how to give them free tests in some form, for example, on the queues where they are lining up for pension. I mean, we want to help people, we don't like the restrictions, I'm a business person, it's not good, but in this case my biggest fear is that at the end of January our hospitals are still crowded, that there are people waiting on the stairs to be accepted, that there are dying people based on that we haven't dealt well with this problem. If you have better solutions our doors are open, in the sense that here we are not saying we are not some ideologists on the green certificate, we only want the health of the Bulgarians to be protected maximum and we look at the measures that are not perfect, which we choose. This is the answer to your question. So in no way do we believe in additional restrictions, but when it comes to human lives, I don't want to shut down either business or shut down schools, I want the economy to move as well as possible, but we don't have the perfect measures, and I at that moment when yesterday we had nearly 5,000 newly infected, I wouldn't change any of these measures at this very moment. Believe me, in the first moment when we see that this is already possible, our government is going to say: "Enough with these restrictions! " - But this is based on sick in hospitals, on intensive beds, on what you know best! [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u86	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Would you like a line, Mr. Chorbanov? No. We are moving on to the parliamentary group of "Democratic Bulgaria" "Georgy Ganev." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna put a lot of pressure on my minutes to ask a question, and I hope I don't delay them too much, because I'm gonna start from afar. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister! Hello, thank you for being here! I take occasion from the question of colleague Stoinev. His question was based on an interview. My question will be based on this same interview. In this sense, what you, Prime Minister, have done is that you have given an interview. You are obviously familiar with this form, not from Bulgaria, but it is called a newsmaker interview, i.e. an interview, which is news, it creates news. I see no problem, at least in my experience, to learn some news from the Bulgarian government and through this form, because it is more conversational and gives the interviewer an opportunity for questions, not just a presslist, which you cannot ask any questions about. So it's a nice shape too, keep it up, there's no harm in it. Based on this interview, it's also my question. There you mentioned that the government continues to maintain the horizon 1 January 2024 for entry into the Eurozone: The Eurozone for our political power and Bulgaria's accession to it is a very important priority. In this sense today is Ivanov Day 2022. Congratulations to all the first names! The ambition is for Vasilyov Day 2024 to enter the Eurozone. By Ivanovden 2022 Vasilyovden 2024 is already quite ambitious. This means that certain strategies with different components should already be underway on how to move to the Eurozone, first. And second, when eventually, God forbid, we become members of the Eurozone, Bulgaria should position itself as best as possible, because like every human thing and the Eurozone is not perfect. For each particular country there are pros and cons in it and there must be a strategy how as much as possible to take advantage of the pros and at least allow the minuses to cause problems. So if you could tell us what kind of idea, a vision of this strategy you have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u88	Thank you, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u89	I'm going to suggest that the Deputy Prime Minister respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u90	Mr. Ganev, do you have the question...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u91	No, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u92	Okay. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u93	Thanks for asking. Mr. Ganev, as you know, on 30 June the government adopted an Action Plan for the adoption of the euro. This plan was a public discussion and is in principle ready for adoption by the Council of Ministers. Before it is adopted by the Council of Ministers, as recorded in the coalition agreement, we want to make a broad public debate about this action plan to be discussed in detail. All citizens and companies, all Bulgarians, should be convinced whether it is good for them to adopt the euro. As we know, we believe that this is the best plan for Bulgaria. This was also written in the coalition agreement, but every Bulgarian citizen should be informed and should be able to make his informed choice on this occasion. As soon as we have a broad public discussion, the Action Plan will begin. By the way, the first part of this action plan is exactly such a large-scale campaign. What happens to adopting the euro, what happens to contracts, what happens to deposits, what happens to mortgages, what happens to citizens' savings? All this is clearly written in the Action Plan, but must be clearly communicated with all Bulgarian citizens. What happens to payment systems, what happens to businesses, how long will they have to maintain two cases? In the Plan it is recorded that two cases should be maintained exactly one month, because otherwise every small business should be able to return in levs and euros, which means double resources to be set aside by the relevant business. But I say again, this plan is made. He's standing for public discussion. The experts have met him, the comments are given, are reflected in the Plan, but now is the time for the non-specialists, the whole Bulgarian people to look at him, discuss him and start bringing him into action. We are currently technically fully ready for the adoption of the euro. There are some small things that need to be completed. So the date 1 January 2024 is in no shape threatened, the question is right to conduct the explanatory campaign so that everyone can understand what the adoption of the euro means, what the benefits are, what the potential risks are and a informed decision is taken, I hope, in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's kind of like what you said. It is very well that of course we know and are familiar with this plan that there is a continuation of its implementation with the relevant priorities. However, I would like to stress a few things here that seem important to me. The first is that the more honest approach to people always works better, that is, not trying to bring out the Eurozone some manna heavenly, some type of paradise. Like any human thing, especially in the field of money, do not start me on this subject is imperfect. It is very important to explain to people, first, the imperfections in the Eurozone itself, because they are smaller than our current system. And secondly, everyone can assess for themselves the dangers for him personally and for every Bulgarian citizen in order to be able to protect himself. Not just to decide whether she likes it or not, but to be able to develop a life strategy to make the best use of what will open up as opportunities, but also as possible dangers. Secondly, we have countries with serious experience in technical implementation. I really hope you're in touch with them, because some of their experiments have been very helpful. For example, activation of civil society structures to assist citizens in precisely these transition periods. Especially in Slovenia, this program was very good. Naturally, I hope you are in constant contact with Croatia, which is in our position, and there is also thought about these issues. Finally, just to say that we have two major challenges ahead of the date 1 January 2024. The first is inflation, and then the inflation criterion. The second is the unique emphasis for Bulgaria in press release, with which we were accepted in ERM-II and the Bank Union.................................................................................... That shouldn't be forgotten, because there might be teeth in our case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u96	Thank you. Mr. Vassilev? No. And one last question from Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u97	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers! We have heard today concerns about national health, about the health of the Bulgarians "It was explained how with 70% vaccinated you will download a green certificate, and although in Western Europe and Central Europe we have more than 80% vaccinated, not only will there be no dropping of green certificates, but their health systems are in front of collapse. There's no point in quoting sick people's figures every day, despite 80, 90% of them being vaccinated. But in addition to what you neglected to mention about public health, there is a comment on how we will burn in the shit in Bulgaria. In this regard, I would like to ask Mr. Sandov, and just mention that today I have asked the Minister of Regional Development about the storage of the junk that your European partners interpret and accept as goods, and the free movement of goods and people, as we know, is free in the European Union, so that in this regard: this government, which currently governs us, however long this moment is, does it intend to consider the issue eventually to apply any regulations to stop the wicked practice of Bulgaria being the dump of Europe and the world in which thousands, tens of thousands, not to say hundreds of thousands, tons of junk to be burned to be burned not only in energy-producing enterprises but to build incinerators. How long will we continue with this hypocritical policy of explaining today from the stands how you care for health, at the same time explaining how you are so loyal partners in the European Union that we cannot in any way apply any regulations and stop this nonsense from burning junk. The problem is extremely serious and let's think about the question of how to stimulate Bulgarian municipalities to start recycling junk and if we are going to burn, burn at least Bulgarian trash, not the borders to insert, as one or two years ago, including radioactive waste, which was extracted and injected for combustion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u98	Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u99	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, fellow Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ganev, I will start the answer to your question with what you started with, as we are really in front of another one and this time a very disturbing wave of the COVID-19 virus is coming up and I will explain why I was a little late. Luckily, there were a lot of people who were inoculated today. I was one of them, with a booster dose this morning, which slowed me down to get here. [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo!.............................)....................................................................]] I believe that we should set an example in this regard. As for your question regarding the burning of waste and the import of waste, Bulgaria really should not be a dump of another country, of other countries and should generally not be a waste dump, whether imported or not. What we can do and do is analyze what we can do with our waste, how best they can be utilized, prevented, first of all, second of all, recycled, thirdly used otherwise, but not deposited. The objectives that the European Union has, and this has been in relation to the previous issue, is that we achieve higher levels of recycling. As for the import of waste, there is a decision from last year of the Bulgarian government which limits the import of a certain type of..................................the code of 191122, RDF fuel, which is code 191210, which I suppose you are talking about and which is currently available at the site of the port of Varna....... is used by Bulgarian cement plants as an energy component. At this stage it is a cheap alternative for them. Besides, it's calorie enough. I know that it is being discussed and is related to what Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev said that it is not for maintaining the TPP of Maritsa East with imported waste of this type. It is considered an analysis and a decision whether Bulgarian waste, which can not be prevented, recycled or used in the circular economy, can be used in this way. I assure you that I will do my best and believe that the government is behind us not becoming the last stop of waste in other countries, even less if we are talking about dangerous radioactive waste. It's enhanced control at all the border crossings they're passing through. Through the Ministry of Environment and Water and Regional Environmental Inspections and Leads I have also ordered strict control. About the waste that was mentioned in Varna the other day was made a morphological sample and it is standard: ten of these bales are taken and are currently being analyzed to make sure it is exactly 19-12-10, which according to documents we know about. I assure you that we will do everything possible for Bulgaria not to import waste from the outside, even less dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u100	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Here you go, Mr. Ganev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u101	Mr. Sandov, after my exhibition, which referred to the burning of junk, and what you mentioned, RDF, there is a big difference between burning RDF, having and extracting energy from RDF, and at the same time having incinerators that just burn imported junk and destroy it. What I paid particular attention to and about which I asked is: is the government thinking, and in particular you as Minister for specific regulations to make it so that this commodity, I say it in quotes, because it is not any commodity, but in the interpretation of European Union legislation it has the right to free movement and you absolutely cannot stop it from entering Bulgaria, but to make it so that through regulatory changes these imports are very limited and at the same time to stimulate municipalities?! What specifically will stimulate municipalities to start doing exactly this recycling and not here to talk about bottles, about cups and plastic stirrers, about hundreds of thousands of tons of junk that are imported and burned? Other junk other than RDF arrives in the port of Varna. The problem is much more serious and the incinerators in question make it so that all who live in an area with incinerators breathe and get sick, as the mortality there is much higher than the COVID-19. The storage of junk and this is now to the Minister of Regional Development, is his responsibility on the ZUT. So I asked him if all the junk storage sites fit the specific legislation, and they're not just pro-forma because the business is worth hundreds of millions. I deeply doubt that all those who store this junk have on the ZUT and observe the law tightly. I hope the Minister of Regional Development will respond correctly, because this is an extremely serious problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u102	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues from the government, ladies and gentlemen of the parliament, Mr. Ganev! I will once again say that, since the inauguration of this government, we have changed EIA policy. For example, I didn't sign the imports. I didn't sign the notification by the Ministry of Environment and Water, I didn't sign the import of any tone of RDF or any other type of hazardous waste or waste in Bulgaria at all. Those who are currently arriving in Varna are from the time of the government of GERB and Minister Emil Dimitrov. We cannot limit them because we would violate European Union law when such a notification happened. The Bulgarian municipalities, to their greater extent, in their larger numbers, do not make good separation of waste, which is why the RDF component... By the way, there are no incinerators to work, and there are several cement plants, because you mentioned the incinerators several times. The incinerators currently existing in Bulgaria are for medical waste, for a certain type of hazardous waste and for the equarium................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Such a project is available for Sofia and there are several other projects, but they have not started functioning. In cement plants is burned at a much higher temperature and they are outside the settlements usually, so there we have to have a conversation about how they can transform in the future. What is discussed by the Bulgarian government is how that component, which we cannot recycle, prevent it and whether it should be not only for the Bulgarian municipalities, but we will do our best to limit the possibility, as far as the law of Bulgaria, the Constitution and European legislation allows us, only with regard to the Bulgarian municipalities, waste that comes from the Bulgarian municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u104	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. That's why the questions in today's blitz control are over. There is a request made by Deputy Prime Minister Cornelia Ninova for a speech on a topic other than the agenda. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova. Will five minutes be enough for you to speak?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u105	Thank you, I think less will be necessary. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, fellow Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Bulgarian citizens! In recent days, we are flooded with worrying news of rising prices, of inflation, of growing illness with COVID-19 and I do not wish to miss one of the most disturbing of yesterday's statistics after the census of the Bulgarian population. For the first time in 80 years, we're under seven million. Bulgarian citizens, we are down 11% by nearly 800,000 we are less in these ten years. You must understand that whatever we do as legislation, we as a team from the Ministry, and you as MPs, legislation, if there is no people, there is no point in doing so. That is why we are addressing you today: to join forces on this subject! Over the years we have talked a lot, many talks have been spoken, but let's get to work and get to work because, honourable Members, after years other Bulgarians will come here to our place and to your MPs. It is not a question of a single parliament and it is not a question of this composition of the National Assembly, of the Council of Ministers, it is not a question of a single mandate for politicians, either. This is a matter for statesmen and let us put some real beginning to action on this issue! On our part, we will trigger the convening of the National Council for Demography in the Council of Ministers to the Prime Minister, discuss concrete measures and offer them to you. I am aware that we are here to report to you, not to give you brains, but to turn with concern and ask for every bill we see from now on, to make efforts and to assess the impact on the demographic crisis. It'll be useful, and it'll work. As a team, we are ready to sit down rationally, smartly and statesmanically to launch real actions that will begin to solve the worst issue of the Bulgarian people. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Is there a desire from the parliamentary groups for an opinion on the speech made? I won't. The blitz control is over. We thank Prime Minister Kiril Petkov and Vice-Presidents for today's participation, and some of them will see us later in regular parliamentary control. We move on to item two of the agenda for today: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT CONDITIONS FOR ACCESS TO THE BUILDINGS OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION IN THE CONDITIONS OF AN EMPLOYMENT. He's come up with a draft decision. I ask the importer to submit the draft and then the committees to submit their reports. Here you go, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u107	Project! DECISION adopting conditions for access to the National Assembly's buildings under exceptional epidemic conditions The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Accepts conditions for access to the National Assembly's buildings under exceptional epidemic conditions as follows: 1. Access to the buildings of the National Assembly shall have persons who: (a) have been vaccinated against COVID-19 certified with a valid a complete vaccination certificate; (b) CIVID-19 have been infected, certified with valid medical records; (c) present a negative result from a test carried out within 72 hours prior to entry into the building using the polymerisation method COVID-19 chain reaction or rapid antigen test (up to 48 hours prior to entry into the facility (s) certified by means of a valid document; or d) Certificate of presence of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 within the meaning of Section II, t. 3 (d) of Order No RD-01-973 of 26 November 2021 of the Minister of Health for Introduction temporary anti-epidemic measures, as amended. and dop. with Order No RD-01-991 of 2 December 2021 2. Expenditure on the purchase and use of rapid antigen tests for MPs' assistants, parliamentary group assistants, administration staff The National Assembly and the media representatives are covered by the budget of the National Assembly. 3. In the formation of a cluster to conduct rapid antigen tests, the MPs may pass with priority. 4. The administration of the National Assembly shall keep the rapid antigen tests carried out on the territory of the National Assembly for re-entry into the building until the end of the day following the day of the test. Data shall be stored subject to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) and the Personal Data Protection Act and shall be destroyed after the expiry of the period referred to in the first sentence. 5. The conditions of access under this Decision shall apply from 24 January 2022 and shall apply from 24 January 2022. Because the topic is particularly important, I would also like to introduce you to the reasons for this draft decision, which states the following: "COVID-19 certificate in Bulgaria has already been introduced for a large group of citizens, including children who attend school. The reasons are expert, medical and include the fact that vaccination prevents severe illness and premature death. The COVID certificate in its current approved version can effectively help prevent the spread of infection and promote freedom of movement while protecting the right to health as far as possible. The buildings of the National Assembly have an area of over 300 sq.m. and on a daily basis are visited by a number of persons, and more than 200 people gather at the same time during plenary sessions in one room. These conditions set an increased epidemiological risk and therefore public health protection is required through the proposed measures. And to complete: the right to health is a constitutionally regulated right and it is the duty of all state authorities to protect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u108	I'll give you the floor in a minute, just to finish the reports. Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. I ask Assistant Professor Anton Tonev to present the report to the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Health on the Draft Decision on the adoption of the Terms of Access to the National Assembly's Buildings under an emergency epidemic situation, No 47-254-02-4, submitted by Andrey Atanasov Gurov and a group of MPs on 5 January 2022. At its extraordinary meeting held on 5 January 2022, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a draft decision adopting the Terms of Access to the National Assembly's Buildings in an emergency epidemic environment, No 47-254-02-4, submitted by Andrey Atanasov Gyurov and a group of MPs on 5 January 2022. The draft decision and the reasons for it were presented by one of the Commission President-in-Offices, who informed the MPs that the CIVID-19 certificate in Bulgaria has already been introduced for a large group of citizens, including children who attend school. The reasons for this are expert, medical and include the fact that vaccination prevents severe illness and premature death. That certificate in its existing approved model of layout may effectively help to prevent the spread of infection and promote freedom of movement while protecting the right to health as far as possible. It was pointed out that the buildings of the National Assembly have an area of over 300 square meters. m and every day are visited by a number of people, and more than 200 people gather at the same time during plenary sessions in one room. These conditions set an increased epidemiological risk and therefore public health protection is required through the proposed measures. In conclusion, it was clarified that the right to health is a constitutionally regulated right and it is the duty of all state authorities to protect it. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health expressed principle support for the proposed draft decision, with some of the MPs making proposals for editorials on the content of the decision, which were not supported by the Commission. The President of the Commission has also made proposals for editorial amendments aimed at clarifying the text of the Draft Decision, namely: 1. In the name of the decision, the words "in the terms of the statement' shall be replaced by "in the case of the declaration'. 2. In the text before t. 1 the words under the terms of the statement shall be replaced by the words in the form of the statement. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 point "in" the words "the object" shall be replaced by "the buildings" and "the buildings" shall be replaced by the words "the object" shall be replaced by the words "the object" 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 after the word to add the officials of the parliamentary committees and to replace the word to replace the Parliamentary Committees. 5. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the word "grouping" to be replaced by "large groups of persons." 6. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 after the word "sizes" and the clamp after it to be added (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016) It's all right, it's all right, it's all right. 7. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 words to be replaced by the words to be replaced by the words to be determined therein. Members of the Parliament, members of the Commission, supported the proposed editorial amendments, which should be reflected in the text of the draft decision under consideration. On the basis of the vote on the following results, 9 votes for the National Assembly in the context of an exceptional epidemic situation, No 47-254-02-4, submitted by Andrei Atanasov Gurov and a group of MPs on 5 January 2022 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision with the editorial amendments adopted by the Commission as follows: Project! DECISION adopting conditions for access to the National Assembly's buildings in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Accepts conditions for access to the National Assembly's buildings in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation as follows: 1. Access to the buildings of the National Assembly shall have persons who: (a) have been vaccinated against COV1D-19, certified with a valid document for a full vaccination course; (b) have suffered from COVID-19, certified with valid medical records; c) present a negative result from a test carried out within 72 hours prior to entry into the building using the PCR chain reaction method for COVID-19 or rapid antigen test [[up to 48 hours before entering the buildings]] , certified by means of a valid document; or d) Certificate of presence of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 within the meaning of Section II, t. 3 (d) of Order No RD-01-973 of 26.11.2021 of the Minister of Health for the introduction of temporary anti-epidemic measures, as amended. and dop. By order No RD-01-991 of 2.12.2021. 2. The costs of purchasing and using rapid antigen tests for the assistants of the MPs, the assistants of the parliamentary groups, the staff of the parliamentary committees, the staff of the administration of the National Assembly and the representatives of the media shall be borne by the budget of the National Assembly. 3. In the formation of large groups of individuals to conduct rapid antigen tests, the MPs may pass with priority. 4. The administration of the National Assembly shall keep the rapid antigen tests carried out on the territory of the National Assembly for re-entry into the building until the end of the day following the day of the test. Data shall be stored subject to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OB, L 119/1 of 4 May 2016). and the Personal Data Protection Act and are destroyed after the expiry of the term by sentence first. 5. The access conditions laid down in that Decision shall apply from 24 January 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u110	Thank you, Professor Tonev. The Health Committee generally supports the text and proposes separate editorial amendments that we will vote on separately. Now let's hear the Report of the Legal Commission come in, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! "COMMODITY" of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the Draft Decision on the Adoption of Terms of Access to the National Assembly's Buildings in Conditions of Exceptional Epidemic Situation, No 47-254-02-4, submitted by Andrey Atanasov Gyurov and a group of MPs on 5 January 2022. At its extraordinary meeting, held on 6 January 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed a draft decision adopting the Terms of Access to the National Assembly's Buildings in an emergency epidemic environment, No 47-254-02-4, submitted by Andrey Atanasov Gyurov and a group of MPs on 5 January 2022. The draft decision was presented by MP Petar Kulenski, who pointed out that the main objective is to protect the right to health of all persons visiting the National Assembly's buildings under conditions of increased epidemic risk due to COVID-19. Mr. Kulenski noted that when adopting the proposed draft solution, it will help prevent the spread of infection and promote freedom of movement. After the discussion of the Draft Decision Committee on Constitutional and Legal Issues with 11 votes for the Constitutional and Legal Issues, 3 votes against and without abstention, adopted the Draft Decision on the adoption of the Terms of Access to the National Assembly Buildings in the context of an exceptional epidemic situation submitted by Andrei Atanasov Gyurov and a group of MPs on 5 January 2022 and proposed to the National Assembly the following draft decision. Following is the text as submitted by the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u112	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. I am opening the discussion on the proposed project. Mrs. Guncheva, then Eva Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I believe that this proposal should not be considered in today's hearing because there is no report from the Health Commission. [[(Reply from "We continue the Change": We are not in the courtroom!]] Once the Prime Minister of the.. We continue the Change.........................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u114	On the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u115	... We continue to change here in the Chamber of the National Assembly, you continue to violate the Constitution and the laws of this country. It's your change to the right of power, not the right of law. A committee report which has not been convened in accordance with the established procedure cannot be accepted. You, Mr. Chairman, said you'd check the case. We see that you have not informed the National Assembly what decision you have made, but I strongly object because this report has not been adopted to the Health Commission, which has been convened under the rules laid down in the Rules of Procedure. I therefore believe that this proposal should not be considered, but must again be convened by the Health Commission in order to decide on the case. Let's get to the point. As the Prime Minister said just now: there have been deaths inoculated. What does that mean that you've been vaccinated? You can also get sick, you can also carry disease, you also infect, you also die of a horse. What do you prove with this green certificate besides some kind of document? I understand that this is what you've been ordered to do, and I understand who ordered you to do it. [[(Replies from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u116	No lines, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u117	Yeah, you're from the American Embassy, right, that's obvious. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u118	The same goes for you!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u119	I would like to ask: how can the right of MPs to participate in the work of the National Assembly be violated, how do you intend to restrict us from performing our duties? And please ask the importer to specify: will the army call to stop us from entering here, or perhaps you will order the NSA to stop us too? Do you understand what you're doing right now? You're challenging a civil war... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u120	Oh, Guncheva Hanım! Please, no such comments from the parliamentary tribune!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u121	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u122	In a slightly more cultural tone, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u123	At the moment, society is divided. At the moment, the public believes that this vaccination and this green certificate have no effect on the crisis. At the moment, this green certificate prevents the right to work, the right to education, and at the moment you offer and restricts the political rights of citizens, i.e. those who do not agree with this coercion, from having the right to represent their people. Shame on you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u124	Mrs. Guncheva, from the parliamentary platform you should encourage democratic approach to any decision, whether it is accepted by everyone or not, not to talk about civil uprisings. For the line.. Associate Professor Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u125	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Guncheva! I understand that for the purposes of political speaking we will continue to debate and try to put the entire whole Bulgarian people in front of one political position or another. About the emergency meeting of the Health Commission. It was held in a quorum with the participation of the opposition representatives who participated in the debate, voted also in accordance with the Rules of Parliament, as it is currently written, it has been held on a regular basis and there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm saying it from this tribune. Secondly, once again, we see non-specialists explaining and analyzing medical facts, aiming to set the vaccine to be 100% to be a vaccine, non-specialists comment medical facts. But those same people, when they need a doctor, go to a doctor, don't treat themselves, I'm convinced of that thing. Few arithmetics for the III class.. in 30% vaccinated and 70% non-vaccinated deaths were about 5% in vaccinated and 95% in non-vaccinated deaths. It's 25% saved lives, Mrs. Guncheva. Twenty-five percent saved lives for vaccination! Think about these figures the next time you speak from the stands. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u126	Thank you, Professor Tonev. There's also a line from Alexander Simidchiev. Here you go, Dr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I observe how many selective facts are used when we talk about the spread of the pandemic process. And when it comes to the green certificate, we start talking about it as some holy cow, as a certificate, not as a measure of public health, which aims to limit the risk of the people who have it. And because we talked very actively and with colleagues from the Legal Commission, the green certificate is the main thing that can be is to be a voluntary act for us to limit our risk, because we are particularly at risk in this House to prevent the legislative process from stopping. What is being said at the moment that vaccination did not matter did not matter the green certificate is a gross lie that is proved by every fact of science. I've got a whole folder full of whether or not the green certificate is working. If you want, I'll introduce you personally. So, when you go out on this stand, please don't speak untruths. Get to know the medical facts. Call your specialist or use one of us to explain the medical facts to you to see that vaccines save lives. Green certificates are means of limiting risk, and if it is voluntary from the people's representation, it will save lives, including in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u128	Thank you, Dr. Simidchiev. For the third line please, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Guncheva, I respect every Bulgarian citizen and I have never made any differences with regard to the political party, because I am a doctor and I have always treated everyone regardless of what is led by all the differences that may exist. It's our oath. I will continue what my fellow doctors have said in this room. I will continue with Professor Tonev and Dr. Simidchiev. There's no way I can tolerate saying that sick people from CIVID-19 who have been vaccinated die. So you're saying the vaccines aren't working. Medically speaking, and no one can doubt these facts because they are proven not by the experience of one or two. These are randomized studies, these are metaanalyses with the highest level of evidence in medical science, which prove that vaccines, each of them, have two qualities that are most important for registration and which are monitored. One is safe. The other is efficiency. Vaccines in Bulgaria have about 92% highest level of efficacy, which means that out of 100 vaccinated citizens eight will be unprotected because the vaccine in them will not be effective. It's these eight that can get sick with all the consequences and complications, so let's not mislead people. The other 92% who have been vaccinated will be safe and sound. They may get sick, but they won't go to the hospital and they won't lose their lives to a horse. If you compare what is happening in the Western countries, like here today, colleague biologist and immunologist Professor Chorbanov said that how he passed omicron through the populations of the West. Yeah, that's how he goes. Do not look at the number of positive cases, watch the number of hospitalized cases. There are no waiting ambulances. There are no dying people of the horse, and that is what people should hear clearly from this tribune. The vaccines are guarded! Thank God there weren't people like that when the spinal cord exploded. Can you imagine what would have happened to us, if you were then explaining how we shouldn't be careful, we shouldn't be wearing all the protective equipment we should have... [[crowd cheering and laughing]] [[Applause, livening by.. We continue the Change.]] Can you imagine these experts then? [[(Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS and]] Now there wouldn't be any living people in this room. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u130	Thank you, Professor. Mrs. Guncheva's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u131	Mr. Tonev! [[(Radio, screams from..) We continue the Change...................................................................................................]] Since you said non-specialists, I'm going to ask you as a doctor not to rule on legal matters. I will also ask the rule of law to be dealt with here. There can be no quorum in an illegitimate committee called. Any lawyer will explain that to you. Even a law student. Because there may be a quorum when we continue the Change. You decide at 10:00 p.m. to meet at a restaurant, for example, and make a decision, don't you? By your logic, that's what we should expect. A decision can only be taken when the rules for convening the Commission are complied with, Mr. Tonev. You apologized, admitted that no members of the Commission have been called, however, you still believe that there has been a quorum. I would recommend that you get acquainted with some legal regulations or at least read the Rules. As regards vaccines, I have one question: who are considered vaccinated? The ones with the second, third, fourth, 14 doses? [[Heckling]] Yes. If you could explain that question as a specialist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u132	Eva Miteva is scheduled for a speech. Welcome, Mrs. Miteva and happy name day!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u133	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! During the election campaign, we all talked very hard and promised that we wanted legislation and acts to be made after detailed and comprehensive discussion and consideration. We all argued that we did not want the acts to continue to be accepted with ease and carelessness. Unfortunately, this is what we saw yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. This is exactly what we have observed in the last few days in the National Assembly with the haste to include this item on the agenda, after we have explained very clearly at the Presidential Council that there are problems with this solution. We have made it very clear that we want to work on it so that it is constitutionally and legally supported. However, what we are seeing today shows that we are continuing to work as we have done before the National Assembly, and we are continuing to adopt acts which the Constitutional Court then declared unconstitutional. The reasons of the submitted decision, which, by the way, contains only a few sentences, indicate that the introduction of these measures is to encourage vaccination as a health measure, as Dr. Simidchiev said. Sadly, however, by reading the texts of this decision, we see the opposite. Because, Mr. Chairman, you could have, on the grounds of art. 8, para. 1, t. 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to issue an order or in the Internal Rules of Access to the National Assembly to provide for this access to the Members of the National Assembly, if this only applies to them, as the previous speakers have said. Unfortunately, however, this decision is much wider in scope and does not only concern the MPs. I therefore called on us to sit down and consider whether we should first see what our legal basis is to adopt this decision. Because the original plea was art. 63 of the Health Act a member who instructs the Minister of Health to adopt anti-epidemic measures. If such were accepted and if the National Assembly were included as a public building, we could use it as a basis to adopt today's decision. Unfortunately, in the orders of the Minister of Health the basis for art. Art. 63 of the Health Act is art. 57, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which, by the way, was attacked in the Constitutional Court, there is no indication of public buildings that these are the buildings of state and local authorities. There are quite different buildings, or that this is a public object. So here, I think, we had to look very carefully at the legal basis on which we are adopting today's decision of the National Assembly to really look like a legislative body and to really say that we are continuing to work in a new way. I have carefully come to know the Prime Minister's Order, which is from 16 December 2021, and I would like to say that I congratulate him because it is much better sustained. Because there was a distinction made and there he referred to a text from the Administration Act as the head of the administration as he is. He said that he actually introduced the measures to limit the distribution of COVID-19 in the administration which he manages as the authority he is. This is what you could do in the National Assembly again with the Rules of Internal Order or with your order. However, in this order are explicitly excluded all citizens who submit complaints and signals, all couriers, all people who must have access to the building of the Council of Ministers, persons up to 18 years of age, as well as mass media. I am surprised here what the approach is taken............................................................................................. Since we are once again a national authority, I dare say that the National Assembly cannot be compared at all with the Council of Ministers because it is fundamentally different in terms of structure, essentially, in a way of work. I would like to point out here that we have two committees: the Committee on Religions and Complaints of Citizens and the Commission for the direct participation of citizens. I mean, I want to ask: how will people who submit complaints and signals reach the National Assembly? Are they gonna pass them at the front door? How are they gonna get access? Are you going to make them be tested with antigen tests every day that they're actually going to pay for? Separately, people who submit their proposals for referendums and civic initiatives to submit them must check their signatures..................... they do not submit just a piece of paper at the entrance of the National Assembly. Where are you gonna do that? You're going to take out the checkpoints? How will these people exercise their constitutional rights and rights under the Law on referendums, including the Rules of the National Assembly, in order to submit their proposals? What about the international delegations? Are we gonna make them pay for their antigen tests, or is the National Assembly gonna take them? What about NGOs who want access to the National Assembly? In fact, we with this decision what we say: we say that all persons should have a document of vaccination, a document of examination and a document of illness. In one second point, we say that free tests have noticed the things collaborators of MPs. The MPs who receive two thirds of their remuneration, the National Assembly will pay them the tests. Why? You're doing this as a measure to encourage the administration to be vaccinated or tested. Why would the National Assembly do their tests?! The same goes for the parliamentary groups, which I do not see as logical, and for the administration of the National Assembly. I mean, I think that this approach, which is adopted, is initially wrong. I do not think that any internal act can then exclude who should not be vaccinated and who cannot apply the rules, as we explicitly say that the rules are for everyone. So we all have to have these tests, pay for them, and we say who's shutting down. I am not convinced, as far as I know the budget of the National Assembly, that funds are at all foreseen to pay for these tests. I need labs to come in, I need to put up some kind of checkpoint, and I don't understand how this is going to be so simple and where it's going to be done. Now, in the particular decision, let me start with the name. First of all, I think that we do not accept access conditions, because there is order and procedure here, and therefore I propose the decision to be: Then I suggest a t. 1...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u134	Mrs. Miteva, just a second, I mean in the title...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u135	The name of the decision to take place: The decision to access the buildings of the National Assembly in the event of a declared exceptional epidemic situation due to the CIVID-19.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u136	I mean, we're erasing the terms of the...?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u137	Terms of..... and finally we add.....................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u138	Pursuant to the COVID-19.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u139	After the word, I propose the text before this. 1 to be deleted, etc. 1 have the following type: "In the event of an emergency epidemic situation, access to the buildings of the National Assembly has persons who...................... have access to the buildings of the National Assembly........................................................................................................................... In the letter............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The same is suggested in the letter "b"....................................................................................................... In the letter "in" I suggest: "up to 48 hours before entry into the site/ event" to be done "in the building" "is obviously rewritten from somewhere, again " certified by a valid document of study " because it is not clear here what this document is, this is the document of study, again within the meaning of the order which I quoted it "01-973." At point two, I suggest that all these employees be dropped, and if tests are to be paid, they are only for the mass media. That is to say point 2 to sound like this: The costs for the purchase and use of rapid antigens tests for the mass media are covered by the budget of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u140	To stay only for media representatives.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u141	The other option, I said in the Prime Minister's order they are excluded at all, that they do not require such tests and this is, in my opinion, the right approach. Point three, I suggest dropping out, as what does it mean when crowding the MPs could go ahead with the advantage? Well, they always come first! On top of that, it's a legal option. What do you mean, they pass, they don't pass? I suggest point three is dropped. Once they're tested, be good enough to stand in line. Fourth point, I propose to drop out completely: The Administration of the National Assembly shall keep the tests carried out until the end of the day following the day of the carrying out of the tests. First, antigen tests are 48 hours. If I did it at 3:00, by the end of the next day they wouldn't have passed! Why are you restricting my rights?! Are you going to test me again? On the other hand, there are doctors here, who can confirm, under the Health Information Act, that health information can be collected, stored, processed, used only medical institutions, only doctors and persons referred to in the Health Act, that is to say the National Assembly cannot store and process information about the health status of persons. The study shall be given to the person concerned who has been examined. The research information itself sits with the lab guy because I can't imagine that Parliament officials will be doing the tests! So point four, I suggest you drop the whole thing. Point five, I propose that it acquires the following form: The last question I would like to put is the admission of the MPs if they refuse antigen tests, vaccination or research and so on. What's going on here? Art. 133 of the Rules clearly states that the Members of the National Assembly are obliged to attend the meetings of the National Assembly and the meetings of the committees for which they are elected. That is, there is no way, neither with this decision nor in any other way, we can prohibit the MPs from entering the building and the Chamber in order to exercise their constitutional powers. On the other hand, by adopting this decision, I think that there should have been another decision with him to change the distance participation and there to allow the MPs who refuse research to have the right to participate in the work of the National Assembly through the video wall. The same should be foreseen to be done in the committees for all those citizens who want to participate in them, but have not been vaccinated, have no money to pay for these tests and cannot participate. Moreover, we have explicitly stated in the Rules that the organisations concerned are entitled to give opinions. Not only that, the chairmen of the committees are obliged to ask these interested organisations for opinions and without these opinions the committee cannot continue. On top of that, we have written that the chairmen are obliged to invite these people, that is, we open the door with the Rules, we give them the rights, we oblige the chairmen of the committees, and at the same time we tell them: inoculate yourselves, pay for your test, I do not understand it. So once again, I call on you to let us really get back to parliamentaryism and start following the Constitution and the laws of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Do you have any written suggestions?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u143	No, I don't, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u144	Mrs. Miteva, et cetera. 1 letters.................................................... in the end........................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u145	It's written in a letter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u146	Okay, same RD 01,991. Any lines to Mrs. Miteva? Mr. Cholakov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Miteva has practically destroyed this decision and I am surprised why in the majority they do not discuss these things in advance so that they are not exposed here. However, Mrs. Miteva, I have something else to ask you. Reading carefully the text of the decision, because several times it was about the MPs, after all, our group's idea was, and I think of all of us, to start with the personal example. The personal example means starting from the MPs, not from accountants and media representatives. Do I feel right that, as the text of the decision is formulated, access to the buildings of the National Assembly has persons who have been vaccinated, sick and so on? The second point states: the cost of purchasing and using rapid antigen tests for collaborators, employees and representatives is covered by the budget. It does not say at second point who bears the cost of purchasing rapid antigen tests for the MPs. Do they pay for it? That is, we believe that this obliges the MPs to be either vaccinated or to submit antigen tests, but to pay for them themselves and for the assistants to be paid by the National Assembly. But didn't he get into a colony with what you just said that no one could restrict the MP to enter the National Assembly building? [[Reply from MP Iva Miteva.]] What are we doing?! I ask the majority to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u148	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Another line? Professor Asen Baltov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Miteva, as you know, the first thing we did after we entered the hall was to offer people who do not have vaccination and green certificate to be able to work remotely. What turned out, after the Legal Committee examined the Draft Decision, in fact you came to the same conclusion that at the moment of the MP there was no way for him to be deprived of the right to be in the Chamber and no one could ask for it to be stopped in any way at either the entrance or the exit? And then what do we do?! We're going back to V-zero. As far as other things are concerned, I will take special consideration because I think there are very serious medical discrepancies in this regard. 1 with the points of....................................................................................... As far as other things are concerned, I will make a special statement because I personally have very serious medical discrepancies in point 1 with the points................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ But as a whole, we see we're back to V-zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u150	Thank you, Professor. A third line from Peter Kulenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Miteva, allow me to disagree with what you said was limited to the access of the Members of the National Assembly to the plenary or to the National Assembly, in so far as there are four opportunities for the Members of the National Assembly to enter the National Assembly, they are described in the decision. This has passed a course of vaccination if they have been sick, as well as if they have a rapid or antigenic test. I also disagree that the decision is unconstitutional, in so far as it is under the Constitution and under the Health Act that all citizens are obliged to protect public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u152	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. A hole, Mrs. Miteva? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u153	Whether it is an unconstitutional decision says only the Constitutional Court if it is attacked, so let us wait, let us see what action will be taken and whether it will be taken. Usually the practice is that when it comes to the Constitutional Court, it declares them unconstitutional, but now either the parliament is gone or the decision is no longer in force. At least that's the practice in the past years. With regard to the MPs, yes, there is no way, that is exactly what I said, Mr. Kulenski. We can't limit the people's representative. Even though we ask him for a document of vaccination, examination or illness, we cannot limit him and we will see him as soon as next week, when MPs refuse to do antigen tests... how and who will stop them from entering the building of the National Assembly, even more so after we do not provide them with the opportunity to participate remotely in the work of the National Assembly? With regard to your reply, Mr. Cholakov, I would like to make it clear here so that there are no later interpretations and explanations in the media. The decision works absolutely for all citizens to access the buildings of the National Assembly. If we accept it, we restrict everyone's access without these three documents, regardless of what these citizens are. And we say all these citizens pay their own tests or are vaccinated or have been sick and given a document, but they cannot enter the National Assembly without these three documents, but are free of charge for all parliamentary officials in the National Assembly and for the mass media. For Members of the National Assembly, of course, also applies because they are not excluded in this section. 1 and they'll pay for the tests if they do. I don't think anyone can stop them. Let's see next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u154	Andrej Mihailov, did you want to make a statement? [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u155	No, no, there's no rest in the rules. Here you are, Mr. Mihailov. You have 30 seconds. We will extend your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u156	Thank you. I'm asking for an extension. Honourable Members, in connection with the draft decision, I will return the discussion to a purely legal party....................................................................................... You will test all journalists, all citizens, and how will you store this information about their health status in the information system of the National Assembly? No one thought about it because according to art. 9 of the so-called GDPR "Personal Data Protection Regulation," this is sensitive information, and the text explicitly says: "The processing of such data is prohibited." How is the National Assembly going to process, store data on the health status of journalists?! A serious question arises in this regard. Apparently in t. 4 where it is said that the administration stores the data, this has not been reported. On what grounds will they be kept? We must ask for explicit consent from the individuals. This means that anyone entering the National Assembly must fill in a declaration that he agrees to keep and process these data about his health status..................... about whether he has a coronary infection..................................................................... And two more quick points. One of us is costing.. are we prepared to make a public procurement so that we can purchase these tests, if we, in the National Assembly, will conduct this testing? Do we have a budget for this? Are we ready to work on the D.O.P. because we need to buy tests? And the last argument. Outside the costs, outside the budget, outside the orders, this decision creates and opens the door to something different, something much bigger, all public authorities, all public institutions to act in exactly the same way as the National Assembly does, and to impose restrictions on access. Do we want that? And one more thing about the courage of the Personal Data Protection Commission. Will this storage of personal data, if asked by the Commission, be considered lawful? If anyone dares to ask the Commission for the protection of personal data in this regard. All these professional legal aspects of the decision must be considered. In the project, this is practically unaccounted for. I appeal to you, fellow Members, purely legal: let us think on all these aspects, because the decision in this form seems the least unjustified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u157	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Are there any lines to Mr. Mihailov? I won't. Holes? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Anastasov, according to procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the DPS parliamentary group, I'd like a 20-minute recess.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u159	I'm calling a 20-minute break, guys. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u160	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We are continuing the discussion on t. 3 on the agenda. For a statement is recorded Andrey Gurov. Here you go, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Adopting the green certificate of access to parliament is an important step in many respects. This is not a matter of populism, but of justice, of a responsible civil position and trust in the authority of the scientific community. We from "Keep the Change" will support the Project of Access to the Parliament building with a green certificate or negative antigen test because we believe that this is the way to show all citizens that we live in a new time of fair rules that apply to everyone. We hear your concerns, colleagues, and those of the citizens. We hear them, but I think today we do not need further opposition, and so we seek the middle and reasonable path for the sake of health and life. The requirements for green certificate in Bulgaria are liberal enough. Let us show solidarity and public responsibility. For the past two years, we have been living in a pandemic, and it is becoming increasingly clear that Kovid is a threat mainly to uninoculated and uninoculated citizens. Since the beginning of the epidemic in Bulgaria, more than 30 thousand people have died. Statistics show that 95% of the deaths are of unvaccinated fellow citizens. Vaccines could have saved a lot of lives. For how long through demagogy and pseudo-scientific disputes we will support the continuous loss of Bulgarians and at the same time we will put the functioning of the health system, of hospitals, of our brave and proud doctors under constant stress and we will place them daily in front of heavy elections. Dear colleagues, we must set an example for society. The Green Certificate is a document confirming vaccination, infection or presence of antibodies. Under the conditions of pandemic, the green certificate holder is as safe as possible for others. Covid can only be stopped with the help of all of us united in this purpose. The vaccine is a scientifically proven, effective and safe means of combating the pandemic, behind which the world scientific community is unwavering. The adoption of the green certificate is a necessary step of the National Assembly, with which we clearly state that we support scientific authority and give a clear sign of our will to defeat the pandemic. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u162	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Are there any lines to Mr. Gurov? Mrs. Miteva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u163	I'll be very brief. Mr. Gurov, I agree with you. In connection with the proposal I made in point. 2, I call on you to support it precisely in the position you have said at the moment. Since the rules will apply to everyone, then let everyone pay their own tests as all Bulgarian citizens pay for them. Thank you. [[Single applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Another line? Kostadin Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u165	I listened to the pathetic address with great interest. I have noticed a pledge in science and scientific knowledge, and it is precisely in the name of this pledge that I would like to remind you that the green certificate does not, in fact, protect itself because, as is well known, vaccinated people also carry disease. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "But don't die!"]] And the other... No, they don't die at all. They're immortal! [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria]] Ah, less die! Last time I checked, they didn't die at all, or did they die less?! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u166	Go for the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u167	The finale of what I want to tell you, Mr. Gurov, is that the cases in which people who have been vaccinated and who have become ill are becoming more and more. The cases in which vaccinated people carry the disease, it is very difficult to tell exactly how they are, but they are becoming more and more with the increasing number of vaccinated people. I'll give you an example, by the way, from... And one more thing, this thing also applies to sick people, because the green certificate also gives the opportunity for people who have been sick to have one. National Assembly Vice-President Tsoncho Ganev made Kovid November 2020 and then brought it out November 2021. He was in quarantine during the campaign in its second part. You made it twice in a year. Why don't you explain to me how the green certificate protects? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u168	First line of Kostadin Kostadinov. Second line? I'm sorry, Eva Miteva had the first line. Is there a third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ghurov, none of this House, I am convinced, none of this House denies the need to create prerequisites for limiting the possibility of infection and for taking measures to limit this pandemic. My speech will also be oriented primarily as a lawyer, as a person who has been engaged for many years in law. If we adopt this decision as you propose it, this means that we, next week, from the parliamentary group of the "There is such a people" we should consider and submit a proposal for amendment of the Rules of Procedure regarding the oath which each Member of the National Assembly takes and that it states: "I swear to respect the laws and Constitution of Bulgaria if I have a green certificate. [[Noise, laughter and applause.]] I don't know, I really don't know if you're thinking about what legal insanity we're talking about right now? If this decision is accepted in this form, it means that I really break up my diploma, break up the diplomas of all my students I have taught, and tell them not to engage in law anymore. Withdraw this proposal in this form, consider it, let's not be hasty! We are really talking about a very serious matter here. When the reasons were put forward at the beginning, when you presented this draft decision to the Legal Commission, you justified it mainly by the fact that most of the people in Bulgaria are already limited and are obliged to apply the green certificate. Colleagues, these people are obliged on the basis of administrative acts, on the basis of administrative acts by the respective heads of departments At the moment, we want by law, by a decision of the National Assembly, referring to administrative acts that have nothing to do with the will of the House, to introduce this green certificate as mandatory. The issue here is much more serious, as it is about the fight against two constitutional rights, the right to work and the right to safe work. But my personal opinion is that this issue should not be resolved by a decision of the National Assembly. Here, legal changes must be considered, whether in the Health Act, for safe working conditions, whether in the Labour Code. So don't get ahead of yourself with such a controversial debate problem. Please withdraw it, consider it and then enter the room again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u170	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Your parliamentary group's time is up. I'm just saying. Will there be a duplicate from Mr. Gurov? There's not gonna be a duvet. Yavor Bojankov is the next recorded speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The subject is undoubtedly greater than a certificate, vaccine or rapid antigen test. Here we are talking about war with common sense, war against science and against objective truth. Obviously, objective truth is already a stretching concept because we have come to that notorious moment for each one to judge for himself. Just like in the movie, don't look up, a comet comes against the Earth, the scientific community says, "There is a comet, we see it with a telescope, we have a picture of the comet, but many people, influenced by various conspiracy theories, deny that there is a comet at all. So our situation is very similar. The drama, however, is that our society has experienced wars, catastrophes, human sacrifices, and always the trials have made us stronger. For the first time in the new story, a test, and not from the worst, separates our nation to the limit. For the first time, it is exploited so uglylyly by a political force in its political interest. And I think that compliance with the measures... we don't follow measures because we're afraid, we follow measures because we care about the one next to us, because the one next to us could lose his life because the state could get hurt, and she wouldn't get hurt because there are measures, she would get hurt because there's a horse. Kovid takes people's lives, tourism suffers from a horse and the objective truth is that there is a virus. This may also be a defect in our consumer society, which sees life as an endless pleasure, a party, consumption because of consumption itself and no circumstances, not even the loss of human life, can take that away, and we are not talking about the loss of a human life, we are talking about tens of thousands of lives. An entire town has disappeared from the face of Bulgaria over 32 thousand. souls have lost their lives. For reference: a country like Israel with a population of 10 million has 8,000 deaths, in Bulgaria, unfortunately, 6 and a half million already, has four times more than 32 thousand. And if this does not occur to us, Bulgaria is statistically the second country on the planet by the number of deaths per capita per million people. However we interpret statistics, as much as we argue whether it is true, the data is frightening and it is our responsibility to interpret them correctly, to take adequate measures. And populism always has a quick solution. Someone else is guilty of sorosoids, the global conspiracy, hated for some America, hated for some Europe. But the truth is that even a country like China, which is a sovereign country, no one has any doubt, imposes strict measures and vaccination. Even for some colleagues in this House I say, Russia, yes, Russia imposes strict measures and is extremely keen on vaccination. No one can accuse these countries of not being sovereign and anyone else on the outside dictates perhaps their agenda. But the battle with common sense has many faces, populism is one of them and populism in Bulgaria says: "There are easy solutions. We take all kinds of measures and pretend it didn't happen, there's no virus, and we keep living. In Britain, other populists convinced them: we are getting out of Europe and we are getting richer, but it did not. The trouble of populism, of extremism, of extreme political currents is that when they become reality, people suffer extremely much. And it is worrying that there is populism in Bulgaria and Europe at the moment and in this House calls for violence. If today seems virtual and incredible, I assure you, colleagues, that someone might get hurt. And we are convinced that this will be our responsibility.. precisely those who play and use, exploit the fear of people and this topic at the moment. Europe has paid a huge price for populism - tens of millions of human victims. That is why we are not defending today a simple regime, which is, by the way, simple as it should be for the Bulgarian doctor and for the Bulgarian teacher, it should also be for the people's representative. Today in this room and with this decision we protect common sense. That is why our parliamentary group will support the decision. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u172	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? There are no lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u173	There, there.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u174	Ah, Professor, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bojankov, I thought that at the Nativity we celebrate the birth of Christ, but apparently then you were reborn as well, as you have now begun to confess some different thesis. I just want to remind you, because in the midst of the second, third and fourth wave I had the evil fate to be a direct observer and a direct participant in their coordination and control, so then I remember a colorful Facebook post when you compared the mask to the pants. I'm done. I'm ashamed to say it, because this high tribune does not allow this type of speech. [[Laughter and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I would also remind the Bulgarian citizens that you denied that there was a virus when we had to visit Shipka. You explained that we were imposing some rules so there wouldn't be a march towards Shipka. There was also a virus when you were having Buzludja's gatherings. I wonder very much if the virus has changed your consciousness to such an extent that you have turned today, or something else has happened in you, that you are preaching today something that is different from what you wrote on Facebook during the most fierce wool wool wool to wear masks, and yet you are not wearing masks today.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u176	Are there any other lines? Tsoncho Ganev for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u177	Extremely... Mr. Chairman, I apologize. It is extremely revealing this National Assembly after a series of catharses and commitments have been made, they step on and spit on them, such as this never, ever to make a coalition with BSP, and now they are coalition partners, they share everything together. That's what we're watching from Mr. Bojankov. Until yesterday, all this stuff that you currently condemned and explained how it was so good to do, now we spit on it, embraced the change that was imposed, and in the name of all this thing Mr. Bozhankov, as an exemplary and consistent person, crossed out. Mr. Bojankov, congratulations. I hope they congratulate you in the same way as your constituents. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u178	There was nothing good about the green certificate. [[Laughter and lines.]] The third line is Alexander Simov. They're not from the same group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u179	We disagree.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u180	Absolute disagreement. Mr. Bojankov, I will not completely agree with everything you have said because, yes, populism is very harmful. You pointed out the populism of the most callous group here, but the populism of GERB is no less frightening than everything you described, because now it is foolish and criminal to listen to GERB's representatives being made as the party that warned, almost saved Bulgaria from the virus, knowing exactly how their policy, let us remember that we must wear masks, we should not wear masks, and all this within a day. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] This is precisely this populism, this ignorance, this incompetence was part of the problem in Bulgaria. It's also populism, even more murderous than anyone else. Thank you. [[(Applause and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u181	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u182	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u183	Okay, one second. Mr. Chorbanov, your group doesn't have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u184	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u185	Wait, I didn't give you the floor, I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear replicating, dear Mr. Angelov! From the context, not my post that I wrote, but a photo shared that circulates on Facebook. However, there is also a text to this photo. And if you have read the publication, this text states that the change in morning, noon and evening, the announcement of a measure, its change within the day three times led to the fact that folklore is pouring into social networks, people do not know which to believe, people do not know what to follow. That was the point of this publication that you tried to take out of context. But in fact, Mr. Angelov, this also speaks of the management of the Kovid crisis on your part. While large retail chains were working, small open-air shops were closed. I can continue with the dying without oxygen, with the ugly pictures of Bulgarian citizens who lost their lives on the stairs of the medical facilities. I can say a lot more, but we all remember those ugly, pathetic paintings during your reign. When you organized the elections, I can remind you of what you used your powers as Minister. Whose disinfectants were they, Mr. former Minister, in the polls? [[(Applause and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] Whose were and who signed the order, and what was in these disinfectants, because investigations of different media, the Bulgarian National Radio, the Capitals showed that the disinfectants were fake, there is methyl in them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u187	It's a lie.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u188	You signed this order, and the order went through the PR company, notice any dietary supplements. That was all your work. [[(Applause and cheering by "BSP for Bulgaria": Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u189	Thanks for the douche. Next...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u190	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u191	Mr. Chorbanov, your group doesn't have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u192	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u193	Wait, wait, I didn't give you the floor. I didn't give you the floor. [[Heckling]] It's coming in, yeah, just to look at the exact text: 52, para. 3 for the time of the parliamentary groups under para. 1 is the time: t. 2, for which the Members of the Parliamentary Groups concerned have been speaking or taking the floor on procedural matters.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u194	For a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u195	I didn't hear your name. [[Heckling]] Oh, no, no, please, no. Professor Angelov, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u196	It's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u197	Please, I didn't hear you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u198	It's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u199	It's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, you should make a remark of MPs like Mr. Bojankov when he is not speaking on the topic and the duplicate he makes is not related to the line. And the second thing is that he is making suggestions from this parliamentary tribune about things that have not happened at all and are not true. There is no point in making an opinion about disinfectants, as everything you say is born in your head. The checks proved that everything was accurate. And another very important thing, the Minister of Health ordered disinfectants and all the municipalities that had the commitment continued to order the same disinfectants from the same company that you are talking about. But since you are talking about some comments on your publication, here is your publication... there is absolutely no comments on it. Don't lie to the National Assembly. And now I'll bring it to you. [[The National Representative Kostadin Angelov shows a list of the stands. Applause, noise and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u201	Thank you very much. Colleagues, let's count on us to get this discussion back on track. Professor Georgi Mihailov. Professor, I'm counting on your statement to be of no further concern to the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u202	I don't know what you're counting on, Mr. Chairman, after everything that's been going on in this room. Probably...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u203	I'm counting on you to return the subject in the next few minutes. [[cheering and applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u204	Hope sustains man. I don't want to be original here. I don't want to be passionate. I don't want to be sarcastic. This has happened in this House, but under different circumstances. The question we are discussing today is very serious. I'm addressing my colleagues who brought it in. They know very well that's what I'm going to start with. How many minutes do I have, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u205	About 15. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u206	Yeah, great. [[Noise and lines.]] With this I will begin that we specifically asked the importers to carefully refine the text needed otherwise as a decision of the National Assembly. We have spoken that there are four aspects of this decision: the legal decision which Mrs. Miteva defeated in the previous 40 minutes, when she spoke, medically to which no one is paying attention until now, politically, to which almost everyone who is speaking has rushed, and morally, to which this decision is devoted. I won't allow myself to talk about jurisdiction. However, I will only remind people who are in the Chamber and have been members of the Legal Commission and experts to it in the last 24 months that the Health Act has introduced COVID-19 infection along with ebola, cholera, plague, which is an unprecedented outrage. It has been suggested that the Minister of Health put in place for the treatment of patients with CIVID-19 forced, which is outrageous, unprofessional and outrageous. That is why it is responsible for the political power that orchestrated the entire political legal life and the measures that were taken back then. But I repeat, I have neither the right nor the desire to quote, only to remind Mrs. Miteva, so that we can be correct to each other now in this debate. For me is more important the medical aspect of the debate, as it concerns a phenomenon that has come upon the world and which has caused irreparable damage. And in this respect, here I see Mr. Kostadinov, I do repeat it again, some of the questions you put as a proposal for discussion in the so-called Kostadinov committee, called conditionally, no offense to me, were very interesting. I'm going to say one of them is the mortality rate. Undoubtedly, there is an increase in mortality in Bulgaria and its attitude is called this in English, is in the first place and this has been pointed out very recently in statistics in the world as a change in the trend in Bulgaria. The Centre for Public Health, which is constructed by specialists who put their names behind their conclusions, also presents, as well as the American Medical Association at the end of 2020, that the main cause of world mortality is not CIVID 19, but are socially significant diseases and continue to be. The big mistake, Mr. Kostadinov, which is made all over the world and which is unacceptable from a professional point of view, and when I saw yesterday in the Odometer of the deaths of a million people, you will see that in countries that are incomparable by their medical capabilities, I do not want to compare with the names of countries because it is not politically correct. The explanation comes from this and it was said by health professionals around the world that reporting deaths is not objective. A man dies with a cob or a cob. This is one of the interesting questions that you have put, which deserves attention and I think in the Health Commission we will focus on it. But otherwise, the medical question has several angles. The first angle is related to the characteristics of the infectious agent. What kind of clinical picture triggers? Is it heavy? What's the mortality rate? Is she tall? What is the contagious index of high or high? In this respect, the WHO's opinion is categorically.. this is not a particularly dangerous infection according to its characteristics, but it is plastic as most respiratory infections and it has reached its apogee of plasticity now. I will quote data from the world scientific community because here some people are pouting that many know the data from the world scientific community. The Delta option is four times less deadly than the Uhana first option, and the Omicron option is four times less deadly than the Delta version, which means 16 times less mortality since the pandemic started. 16 times smaller! But the contagiousness of the Omicron variant is increased immensely. And that's typical of plastic infections. Anyone who's ever dealt with infectious diseases knows that. And from there comes the danger of the medical phenomenon CIVID 19. Not that a lot of people are going to die. It's absolute nonsense that millions of people have died, tens of millions. So far, we've got registered. Open your Internet right now, if you don't believe what I'm saying, over 300 million registered and about 5 million victims. These are the data of the World Health Organization's urtometer, but the question is the number of affected and the burden of health systems. That was the point of all the measures that were taken around the world. This includes the second part of the anti-epidemic measures. They can't stop this virus. This is not an ebola to close Liberia from its four countries with an army, so that no one can enter, because it is a particularly dangerous infection, but that is the point of the green certificate. He's not limiting the rights. And if we are serious about this because you are constantly talking about limitation of rights, there was a request of the French Firefighters' Syndicate to the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg that their rights were limited because they were directed to be actively immune during the pandemic in France. The Court rejected their application, justifying that in special situations, in life-threatening situations in the world, certain rights in the society of individual categories of people can be ignored, as society must generally be preserved. In this sense, in order not to go into further details, I will tell you that the green certificate has a role to play. He plays the role of a filter. The Prime Minister said it is not perfect, it is not ideal, but a filter in society that reduces pressure on the health system. Here I will quote an article by Martin McKee and Mario Monti, two great specialists in the field of COVID-19, which was published in The Lancet, the largest medical journal, in September last year, let someone not make analogies of this, and they say: in order to have success fighting such a pandemic phenomenon, the level of health at all levels of the social ladder must be the same in one country. In Bulgaria this is not the case. We need health care systems to be protected, as well as banking systems are guarded. This is not the case in Bulgaria and this is not the responsibility of the people who ruled Bulgaria 12 years before us. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] So, when these conditions are not there, Mr. Kostadinov, I turn to you personally, respecting you deeply, there is an opportunity to reduce the pressure through this filter on an extremely difficult existing and very occluded health system. And by finishing, in order not to bore the honourable Members of the House on the last working day of the week, the question above all in this decision has a moral aspect. This was emphasized by Professor Angelov at the beginning when he presented the idea of his political faction. Then, when we presented this decision as a coalition force, the idea is the whole Bulgarian nation, which was said by the President of one of the parliamentary groups, not to have the feeling that we are any more privileged than the other members of this nation. That is the idea of this decision, and that is why we will support it. Of course, it may undergo some editorial adjustments, it is now a matter of legal interpretation, but it deserves to be supported from a medical and moral point of view. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u207	Thank you, too, Professor. - What's the line? Mr. Kostadinov, then Thomas Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u208	Mr. Chairman, Professor Mihailov! That's an extremely interesting statement. I was at times wondering if I should clapping, and finally I started to think that you and I, of course, still disagreed. First of all, I welcome you to these numbers that you have drawn out of your mouth as a specialist. They really sound absolutely unalternative, and I don't think anyone here could disprove them, as is well known when the numbers speak and the gods are silent. So I would like to thank you, because it was important to hear from here from this tribune something spoken out of the mouth of one of the best specialists in this field. Next, however, I cannot agree with your opinion on the green certificate, because even if we assume that it has a certain role, I will remind you of your statement from October 20 last year. You say you're not against the certificate, but against its quick introduction, because it was literally introduced in two days. Assuming that he really has a role to play, we should ask ourselves whether this role has been exhausted and therefore I will recall our position, which I stated in our declaration on Wednesday. We are ready to sit down and I think that this conversation should actually be between people like you specialists, a conversation to be made under the patronage of the Minister of Health, the Prime Minister. To make a working group that includes both representatives of the full restrictive measures and representatives of this article medical and scientific, which believes that such restrictive measures should not be introduced in order to make clear when the green certificate is removed. I get the impression that here maybe we're starting to think he's going to be something forever. And that is why we must answer the question when will the green certificate be removed? Will it be forever? There is talk of this, I have heard some statements that almost new ID cards will be inserted into health data, health cards. This is now extremely disturbing and bordering on Nazism and fascism. That is precisely why we insist that there should be a conversation on the subject and that this conversation be expert in order to give the most important answer: when the green certificate is removed. For the introduction of a green certificate in the National Assembly, we believe that we are giving a very bad signal to the whole society.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u209	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Professor Mihailov! I was very interested in listening to your speech. It was certainly interesting from the point of view of facts and from the point of view of the common culture that we have acquired here, but our debate is about something quite specific, and it is about the organization and the rules by which a green certificate may be introduced in the National Assembly. We have also heard previous speeches here and Mrs. Iva Miteva, who defeated from a legal and organisational point of view this proposal that colleagues from one of the ruling parties are making. It is interesting to me what you have done, colleagues from the ruling majority and Professor Mihailov, what you have done and what you have said in the last two, three, four weeks because we proposed this measure a month ago. Now I see that you here in this room are beginning to understand what to enter, what not to enter. Have you spoken to colleagues from other parliamentary groups in the ruling majority in advance to understand, to establish an organisation, to make a common decision or just to import something a month after we have imported it and start wondering what to do. From this perspective, when you talk about our measures that were at the beginning of this pandemic, I see how you are unable to enter a green certificate into a room of 240 people and into an administration. If you had 2020 at the beginning to take measures in terms of the health crisis, I don't know what would have happened to this people, because you can't be here for two hours to figure out what to do now. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And don't talk about the banks, because as many times as you come to power, banks always go bankrupt, and the health system doesn't go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u211	Mr. Bikov, the banks are not on the subject. Is there a third line? Tsoncho Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u212	Professor Mihailov, I can't mistake you for Mr. Kostadinov, but I'm extremely impressed with the numbers... [[Noise and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u213	Perhaps Mr. Angelov meant? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u214	No, I didn't mean him. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Why would I have meant him?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u215	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u216	On the contrary, in no way can I compare it to GERB. I'm impressed, and I'm very distraught. Should I trust your comrade Bojankov? After all, I am convinced that you are a professional and what you are talking about a medical point of view, about factology, about numbers, quoting doctors, researchers, of magazines, there is much more weight than Bozhankov's charade.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u217	No offense.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u218	No offense, on the contrary...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u219	I wouldn't say that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u220	That's why I congratulate you on the fact that it's very revealing. I will be very happy here there is another associate professor, Chairman of the Health Commission... and he will listen a little bit to what it is about, because he is talking about mass pestilence, and you have disproved him too. I really appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u221	Thanks for the third line. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bikov, be careful when you mention names that there are beginning to be some assumptions about influence that are quite... See what happens after you and another speaker starts mistaking the names. [[Radio.]] I don't know what aspect I'm already starting to doubt, but that's in the circle of the joke, of course. I will answer, first and foremost, Mr. Kostadinov's question, which was very important. Mr. Kostadinov, because I have never allowed myself to speak without verification of the facts, in many countries in Europe and in the world a measure with the characteristic of a green certificate has been introduced and has been revoked at the discretion of the health authorities. This example, which I can give you right now and I can certainly tell you: the month of May has been canceled the certification barrier in Moscow and in Petersburg in connection with the abrupt reduction of the number, but agree that at the moment when we climb over four, five, six thousand a day, when people who probably have no idea of epidemiology are drawing on television sinister predictions of 100,000 cases per day, which is practically impossible, there is no way right now to talk about canceling the green certificate. And I'm taking the liberty of your colleague, and I apologize for not being able to produce the name right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u223	Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u224	...the Vice-President of the National Assembly, to also say that these figures, which I quoted, are correct. I can safely stand behind them, but I told you: the problem is not the number of people who have died. The problem is the great pressure on health systems. This pressure has been exerted everywhere in the world, in the global world I speak, and it is indeed dangerous to the health system. Because if you ask me, I'll answer. The biggest problem and attitude, the change in mortality, came that many people who did not have the necessary professional training and attitude to this infection refused, with serious diseases, to be treated and diagnosed. Hospitals were abandoned in many moments in Bulgaria, and not only in Bulgaria. They were devastated by patients with serious diseases, and that also changed a lot... That's why the whole normal health world, the whole normal scientific world, is struggling to reduce it. Otherwise, Mr. Bikov, I have always admired your oratory options, but this time you were not at the level of your opportunity either with the banks or with the memories of names who stood where before you, behind you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But be careful every case, because things get contagious. From your words, many things can happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u225	Thank you. Branimir Balachev is next recorded for speech. The next entries are Professor Asen Baltov and Dr. Alexander Simidchiev. There are others after that. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Yes, Mr. Ademov, you are further on the list. [[Heckling]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will begin my speech with a slight retrospective of the problem that we are dealing with today. Unfortunately, this green certificate problem has expanded quite a bit. We hear more medical than legal criteria, and in the end, we are presented with a solution that asks our vote, and we must conclude on the extent to which it is lawful and how much it is possible to resolve the issues with the green certificate through it. What's the story? The story is that a minister of service issued an order under the Health Act, which limited the possibility of entering certain sites without the so-called green certificate with its subdivision features. There was also a discontent from the Bulgarian citizens that there was actually a division. That is to say, for us MEPs do not apply this order because it cannot affect us because we are not mentioned in it, on the one hand, and on the other hand, in us, in the group of GERB-SDC has emerged the idea that we still deserve to be protected from the spread of this virus. In this regard, taking, on the one hand, equality between citizens and us, and on the other hand, the possibility for us to be protected in our workplace, because our place of work is the National Assembly, both us and the service staff, the assistants of the National Assembly, the visitors who come here, we have decided and through the chairman of our group in December we have submitted a request for validity of the green certificate. That is, we started the topic that the rules in the National Assembly should be as they are for all Bulgarian citizens. I said the rules and we entered. There's no populism here. If we wanted populism, we would want to amend the minister's order, say how many other people we want to follow us. This was specifically about the operation of the green certificate in the territory of the National Assembly. I do not know why this is our application for a change of form.. I will deal with it a little later, somehow sank.................................................................... Initially, the motive was that there were no committees, but committees already had more than 15 days. What was my surprise when the first Commission and, in my opinion, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs is leading and through it as a final, all the bills are passed so that it can be judged by lawyers, and there are 23 people with legal education, to see how much this bill, this draft decision meets the legal norms and could carry out its legal action, because that is the purpose of our legislative activity. On this first Commission, suddenly, at twelve to five, our proposal was not put in place. "There is an old legal term for the Roman rule of law at a pace, prima jure and a proposal of the parliamentary group was submitted. Nothing wrong with this at first glance, but Mr President, when a proposal is tabled, similar to what has already been tabled, and stays, again I hope to, rather than under your desk, you are obliged at least all the proposals that are similar by type to hand them over to the relevant portfolio committee. The rhetorical question: why didn't you present this project of ours to discuss them all together, because such a project was also available to colleagues from I hope that you could, in your own capacity, answer me this question. The second surprise of this same first meeting of this committee was the fact that this project was introduced under the auspices of art. 32 The second proposal, i.e. as an emergency. Honourable Members, there can be no extraordinaryity since there has already been such a proposal, since the date on which it is requested to enter into force is the 24th, that is, fifteen days after this proposal has been submitted, exactly 14 days, there cannot be. Why can't there be? The first question I put to you: is there actually such an emergency situation to bring this draft decision in this way? Obviously, there is no such extraordinaryity. It is also contained in the proposal for a decision itself. I will not talk about the motives and please colleagues, when we motivate someone else, when they motivate ministers, ministries and so on, they take care of it, but when we motivate some draft legislative act, let us be specific, because, my apologies, honourable colleagues, I do not remember which of the Change was the author of these motives, this is absolutely false. Art. 1 (1) (a) 52, para. 3 talks about quite other things. There is personal responsibility and transfer of responsibility with regard to the Ministry of Health. That is not the problem and that is not the motive for requesting this objection. I expected that, on this first committee, we would adopt Internal Rules, that we would talk about creating subcommittees, why should it be one and not two, to separate constitutional problems from the problems of European Union law and so on, but such things did not happen. For example, we listened to the Minister of Justice and it was extremely sharp with regard to the Attorney General, and we have such powers under Article. 25, para. 1 to ask for a hearing, to see if the allegations of prosecution are real, and if there is any justification for whether there is anything wrong with the prosecution's work. However, none of this happened and it was indicative that this first proposal was not adopted by the Commission. He didn't take it! But obviously someone thinks that the more we score, or if we put in one offer every day, they'll end up coming in. As you have noticed in the Report of the President of the Legal Commission, this proposal for a decision has been adopted by less than half of the members present. Yes, the law allows, but I ask: can such a draft decision be adopted in this way by 11 votes from 23 members of the Commission itself? Obviously, he can't. And get to the point. My opinion is categorically that, first of all, yes, we need to introduce such rules of order and discipline in terms of the possibility of not infecting ourselves, not just us, but everyone else. That is why we are firm and will support a legitimate solution in this regard. There is no way because the activities of the Members of the National Assembly are governed by our Rules of Procedure. Perhaps few of you know, but there is a judgment of the Constitutional Court No 7 of 2010, which says that our Rules have much higher legal power in terms of decisions, because it is aligned with the power of a law, honourable Members. In accordance with art. 86, as quoted there, I do not want to insult fellow lawyers, but there is no way to change anything that has the power of law, with a decision that is legally binding the second-degree opportunity of the National Assembly to make a decision. I therefore believe that the need for a certificate is necessary, but it must be done by changing the regulations. In this regard, if colleagues have the power to withdraw, in the Legal Committee all these talks that we speak for three hours, this thing should happen and then come out with it. And as far as rebirth is concerned, colleagues, because we are colleagues with the two leaders of Varna, I will tell you that much more exotic things than that on the 12th they will invade the National Assembly, you will hear as long as they are... They're still in the campaign, and they'll be in the campaign until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u227	Mr. Balachev, no invading, absolutely. [[Laughter and excitement.]] As for your lines to me, I assure you that everyone...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u228	You can't go there. Get down here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u229	No, no. Mr. Balachev, I assure you that all the drafts and drafts of decisions that have been made have been allocated within 72 hours of the commission being set up. I assure you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u230	Then procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u231	Are there any lines to Mr. Balachev? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure in the manner of conduct is in two parts. The first is to you specifically in terms of the possibility, as President and the lead of this meeting, to respond specifically to comments from colleagues. This, Mr. Chairman, can be done as a replica or a procedure of personal explanation, but only in one case, when you step down to Mr. Vice-President's seat and step down to the parliamentary stand. The second theme. Mr. President, yes, you correctly on 4 January, although our proposal is from December, you have allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and to this health project for a solution. That's where two questions come from. Why not until January 4th, Mr. Chairman, after our proposal was made in December and was the first one at the time, as Mr. Balachev quoted a Roman sentiment at the time, first in law. Moreover, since this proposal corresponds essentially to the draft of the special and regular Committee on Legal Affairs and Health, why was it not included on the agenda? Yes, the line is not quite to you, but please tell it to the chairmen of the two committees that there are rules and they must be observed and in any case of violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly we will react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u233	And thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Yes, it was actually distributed on January 4th. The Standing Committees were set up on 22 December, which was the last working day before 4 January. Then it was December 23rd, I distributed on December 22nd and 23rd. Yours is actually assigned to the 4th. I won't. There is no intention of this, and there are no consequences for this, since the Commissions to which it was assigned did not meet in the mid-term from 22 December to 4 January, so it could not have been dealt with earlier anyway. He's scheduled. From then on, I am not responsible for when it will be examined in the Standing Committees. It has been allocated to the Committee on Health and the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, as you yourself have noted. I believe it will be examined at some of the forthcoming meetings. Finally, it is not correct that it has an identical object, as the subject matter of this Decision is for access to buildings. The draft decision, which has been deposited by you and is distributed, is to oblige the executive to cancel the green certificate. Thank you. Professor Asen Baltov, come in. [[Reply from DPS: Why are you taking turns?]] Mr. Ademov, Professor Baltov had signed up a long time ago. I also note your comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u234	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll be very brief. I will focus on the medical problems that are in this solution. They're in point 1. Sub-point "s' ends with a full course of vaccination. Everyone knows very well that in exactly less than two months a new rule will come into the European Union, that is, the certificate will only be if you have a booster dose, otherwise this vaccination certificate will not apply, that is, taking this Decision, we are going into conflict literally within a month. Sub-point (b)................................................................................................................................................................. This is also not synchronized and there will be a problem here about the period that was given in Bulgaria for 1 year and this period, which will be given in the European Union. As far as point "g" is concerned, we also have a very serious problem because you know that the certificate of presence of antibodies is a Bulgarian fiction by Stoycho Katsarov [[Office Minister]] who actually introduced her, almost in this way could part of the Bulgarian population calm down and be given the opportunity to consider whether to be vaccinated. So from a purely medical point of view at the first point we have a lot of things that are not well thought out, and I personally believe that I said this to the Health Commission as well. Prof. Tonev is a witness, I think that something should really be done or something should be very, quite simple, i.e. support for the green certificate as it is at the moment, or really be reworked entirely. As for the second and third points, there our group has a special view and we believe that what is for all Bulgarians should be for all working and MPs in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u235	Thank you, Professor. Will you make specific proposals for amendments?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u236	We'll do it and bring it in later.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u237	Okay, I expect so. Replices to Professor Baltov? There are no lines to Professor Baltov. Dr. Alexander Simidchiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u238	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to draw attention to something that most of the colleagues who have spoken before me and who are medical experts have not paid attention, namely in an aspect called public health. Public health is a very different area of medicine than clinical medicine, and there are several principles, one of which is that when we talk about infectious diseases, no one is safe until we are all safe. In this particular case, when we discuss this problem, I have not yet heard at least why specifically in the National Assembly there is a need to manage the risk of infection, and I have tried to do an analysis for all of you why, specifically in our Parliament, unlike the European Parliament, which has already had such a requirement since 3 November, and 13 other parliaments in Europe that have such a requirement. Why specifically for our parliament? First of all, because MPs are too high-risk to be sick of a horse. Like the people who work on the first line, they meet with many people, they travel a lot, they reside in one room with about 200 other people at the same time at less than half a meter apart. Very often they discuss, including some of them without any masks and other protective equipment, which is why this creates a particularly high risk of transmission of infection inside the room and at least 600 people per day enter the hall too, that is, we have a huge stream of people who can potentially spread infection inside the parliament. Secondly, because the environment we live in is high risk. You saw what happens to the number of infected on a daily basis, the number of infected on a daily basis, because these are the only ones who enter the official statistics, and the tests in the pharmacies that are bought seamlessly do not enter this statistics, so we don't really know how many are on a daily basis really infected. What we do know, however, is that Omicron is coming, he is already in Bulgaria, but has not yet become dominant, he is much more infected than all the other viral strains so far and we do not know if he is more dangerous or not more dangerous and what we talked about with Professor Mihailov, here I want to make an important distinction. He said it wasn't a particularly dangerous infection and it wasn't by definition, but how many people died from dengues, how many people died from ebola this year or last year or the past? Less than 200 people. How many people have died of a horse in the last year? Five million people worldwide! He said correct figures: 300 million, of which 5 million have died! So what's the rate of five times three hundred? You will receive a percentage which is lower than the percentage of the infected and deceased in Bulgaria. There is no coincidence between 4 and 5% of the Bulgarian population is killed by a horse, we are not talking about those who died along the cavities, for which there are at least three to four times more. On a weekly basis at the peak of the infection, they died twice the average in the last five years. Twice as much on a weekly basis in the peak of infection! With regard to this, do we have anything to do to manage this risk, a risk contingent, that is, people who are susceptible, and a risk environment in which we live now, or are we working more precisely at the moment? Is there anything we can do? Yes, we can manage that risk by identifying people who are more high-risk than those who are less risky to manage that risk as it is managed in many places. The green certificate shall be neither more nor less than one document certifying the risk status. He doesn't guarantee you won't get sick. Of course, neither vaccination guarantees that you will not be ill. But what we can say about those who have been vaccinated against the non-vaccinated data from all the scientific data so far, the transmission of the virus, what everyone is saying: "Ama, right, they are also spreading? "Yes, they are spreading, but by 63% less, that is, than three people who would distribute, two will not spread if they have been vaccinated. 63% if you want the data, here is the data! [[Shows them.]] World, published, scientifically referred data. Regarding whether the certificate worked or not, it was not proven to work. Colleagues, here are the data - world scientific, reference data - that the certificate, the green European certificate, works, and it works not only in limiting the infection, which is its main purpose, but also in the fact that it stimulates people to behave properly, that is to say preventing the spread through vaccination. [[shows them]] Because vaccination actually preserves human life. In addition to transmission, which decreases by 60%, i.e. the spread of the virus, vaccination results in a decrease of 70%, i.e. people in hospitals decrease by 70% after vaccination and death decreases by nearly 90%. That is, anything that torments us from this virus is actually favorably affected by vaccination, the certificate stimulates vaccination and also allows to manage the risk of entry into our workplace. And our workplace, honourable Members, is almost as risky as the front of the Kovid wards, because the conditions are such that we are all concerned for infection and transmission of infection. The building and the way everything is organized in this building continues to be high risk. Finally, just a few words to say from a personal point of view, not from a political point of view. I listened very carefully to all the discussions and, as a person who has no legal education, I decided to read literally what is written in art. 57, para. 2 of the Constitution: . (2) No abuse of rights and their exercise shall be permitted if it prejudices the rights or legitimate interests of others. The interest of each and every one of us is to continue to legislate in this Chamber, and anything that interferes with the realization of our rights really violates the rights of all of us as the supreme authority of the legislative power. If we can't work safely here, we won't be able to do our basic work. Therefore, fellow Members, I ask you, not by political belief, not by party orders, but by conscience: let us protect one another so that we can work properly in the interests of the nation. Thank you. [[(Applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u239	Thank you, Dr. Simidchiev. For a replica, Stoyan Taslakov. [[Heckling]] Once the replica and the back is finished, then you will declare the rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u240	Can I get some disinfecting that... [[Laughter]] After that speech, I got scared! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u241	Well, no comments like that! [[National Representative Stoyan Taslakov disinfects his hands on the stands. Laughter of rebirth.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u242	We're the riskiest group here. I have to agree with Mr. Simidchiev. We really are one of the most risky people in the country. That's why, Mr. Simidchiev, I want to ask you. Since 3 December 2021 we have sworn as MPs, we have had more than a month's work here. Since you have produced global statistics, how many people here in Parliament have become ill in this Parliament? According to statistics, there should already be 10.. 14%. I mean, not just the MPs. I'll tell you, we have a patient in quarantine at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u243	10%.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u244	Yeah, okay. Thank you. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u245	Are there any other lines to Dr. Simidchiev? [[Breeding lines.]] Mr. Ganev, not from the spot! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u246	Not to me, to him!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u247	All of you! You're talking right now! [[Heckling]] Silence! For everyone! It doesn't matter. Is there another line to Dr. Simidchiev? Doctor, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u248	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With the very statement, it has been proved that practically by your parliamentary group about 10% or just below 10% have become ill. [[Single applause from ARGUING.]] On the first day of work here, we had two colleagues who were remotely involved because they were quarantined. And how many people have become ill or how many employees have become ill, I cannot have such information because of the characteristics of medical information, i.e. I cannot make such statistics with data that are health data of colleagues in parliament. No matter what, we see what's going on out there. Do you think this room somehow gives us anything other than legal immunity?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u249	Thank you, Doctor. The legal proposal by GERB-SDS? For a break, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u250	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the GERB-SDS group, we want a 30-minute break so we can navigate the situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u251	15 minutes, 15 minutes!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u252	At 1:50 p.m., half an hour's rest. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u253	Honourable Members, we shall resume the discussion on item two of the agenda for today. To speak, Stoyu Stoev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor to make an editorial proposal, as there was a resonant in the pre-talkers that the rapid antigen tests of the MPs' assistants can actually be covered by these two thirds. For this reason, I propose that the following 2: The co-workers of the Members of the National Assembly and the comma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u255	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. Are there any lines to Mr. Stoev? I won't. To speak, Hasan Ademov. Then Stoil Stoilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u256	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms (COVID-19) is clear and consistent. We do not believe that we have reason to change this position. From the beginning of the 40th National Assembly, our chairman from the parliamentary tribune read a statement clearly and categorically stating that when it comes to the life and health of Bulgarian citizens, when it comes to public health, all political forces, whether they are ruling or opposition, should be on one side of the barrier and on the other side be the virus. Unfortunately, in today's discussion it is clear that even within the ruling coalition there are different opinions on this issue. Why am I saying all this? Because, as you well remember from the ruling coalition, you had an election agreement or there a coalition agreement, as well as to say, in which you had clearly stated that before entering projects or bills, or anything else, as Mr. Bikov reminded you a moment ago, there should be consultations so that there are no different opinions. But that's your problem. I ask myself the question: one such simple question, such as the crossing regime in the National Assembly in this factual situation in the country, in Europe and in the world, cannot be solved within a month and a half, how will you solve serious health problems, for example, which require serious consultations, require serious expertise and so on. But that's your problem. Now our problem is how to resolve the issue of the crossing regime in the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, there was a great deal of hearing here from the section "Medicina" what was the virus, what was its virulence, what was the mortality rate and so on. Those are the medical arguments. Of course they are extremely important. All kinds of arguments are important, including the legal arguments, which Mrs. Miteva from Very important arguments! But these arguments had to come in as considerations before this draft decision to enter the National Assembly. Either way, there is the impression that there is a difference in the ruling coalition on an extremely important topic. Now, in my opinion, because the National Assembly is a political body, colleagues, from now on I beg you not to talk about medical matters. That's why he has medical facilities, that's why he has scientific institutes. There are people who analyze everything that's going on around the climate crisis. Let us talk about political issues, because Parliament is a political body. Parliament is a body which governs public relations. Because if you're pulling my language on the theme "Medicina" I'm going to start talking about oxygen therapy, about intubation tubes, I'm going to talk about artificial pulmonary ventilation, but you're not going to like it. So my request is to talk about how to solve the problem of the transit regime. Once again, we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are about to be dealt with in the field of moral and ethical category. It was said here by my esteemed Professor Mihailov. Why is that important? Because the subject of the privileges of the MPs is extremely sensitive in society. You know what the public reaction is when it comes to the privileges of the National Assembly, and if this omission regime puts the MPs in a privileged position, that means that we are subjecting ourselves to the attacks of society, and for good reason. If we want to restore confidence in parliamentaryism and trust is built with consistent measures that do not irritate society, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to cause a solution to the problems of Bulgarian citizens. With regard to the content of the draft decision, I and other times from this tribune have had the opportunity to say that this draft decision, by opening it up, as if the texts were written by me and by closing it up as if someone else had read it! This, in my opinion, is essentially this project. Another question is whether, within this sitting, we can resolve the problem of the crossing regime. I am convinced that the National Assembly is aware that the majority and the opposition, all members of the Bulgarian Parliament, are aware that no one should have privileges, since the Bulgarian citizens must comply with the measures that the Minister of Health has signed in his orders. Here the discussion is not about whether to have a green certificate or not. Colleagues of old age, I address you specifically! I know that this is the topic of a rocket carrier of your political formation, but I tell you in brackets that dropping the green certificate is a counterproductive measure for your political health. You'll understand from now on why I'm saying this. That is why my request, colleagues: since all Bulgarian citizens pay for the tests they have to do, whether they are fast or whatever, there is no way we in our draft decision to include such texts, which give privileges to one or another, to collaborators or to anyone. If we want all Bulgarian citizens to be equal before the law, the rule of law is one of the fundamental principles that we confess, I hope, all of us, then we must not accept these texts that give privileges. I would like once again to address the national representation: honourable Members, let us be at the height of our responsibilities, not to adopt decisions that are contrary to public opinion. And the public opinion in Bulgaria, as you can see in recent days, is increasing vaccination; another is the question that, here in this draft decision, it is not about vaccination at all. I am convinced that everyone in this Parliament is for the fact that vaccination is a voluntary act. But if we want to, I repeat, maintain health and safety conditions of work, that is the correct term, we must do everything possible to regulate such a crossing regime as to ensure a safe working environment for the Members of the National Assembly, those working in the National Assembly and those entering the National Assembly on various occasions. Concerns about foreign delegations having to queue up is not true. This is regulated in the orders of the Minister of Health, who says what requirements the border crossing regime should have. However, since the European Parliament here has been said anyway, and 13 other MEPs in the European Union have adopted a leaking regime to ensure healthy and safe conditions, I do not think that we can find any different arguments from our colleagues in the prevailing part of the European Union. Once again, immunization, vaccination is a voluntary act, no one can oblige, but if we want to restore trust in the Bulgarian Parliament, we should not put ourselves in a privileged position, we should in no way give any reason to believe that we are some other than the caste society, to call it. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u257	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any lines to Mr. Ademov? Kostadin Kostadinov, come in!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u258	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Ademov, I've heard everything, but the DPS is concerned about the political health of the ARCHER I was not! For this reason, in order not to make you take unnecessary care, we propose the following solution: do not support this proposal, let us all fight together for the removal of the green certificate! Let's see if the theme of green certificate is the main rocket carrier for rebirth, let's actually see if it affects our political health, or if you're really concerned, vote against the adoption of such a decision! And one more thing: the National Assembly is just the ninth shaft. As soon as such a thing is adopted, let the Bulgarian citizens know that from now on, both in municipalities and in courts and in state offices and everywhere else will be entered with a green certificate. You want to pay your taxes, green certificate, because that's the way it is in parliament. What do you want the MPs come in with a green certificate that for you? This thing is very well designed and I think that there is hardly anyone in this room who does not see it, but you still have the opportunity to verify whether what you are saying is really the case. Don't support this decision! [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u259	Thank you. Another line to Mr. Ademov? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, thank you for that line. I would like to remind you of something that has been clear for 32 years when it comes to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. No one outside the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is allowed to make decisions that concern the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, so keep it for yourself. We don't need a consultant like you. We are aware of what we need to do and the entire parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, our entire team, including we have decided that we should be vaccinated. From now on, whether it's a green certificate, whether it's a vaccine, if it's antibodies, if it's a disease, and so on, these are quite other things that we don't care about. We want to be responsible not only to us, but to be responsible to all MPs, to be responsible to all other Bulgarian citizens and thus to contribute to public health, and everything else is fairy tales that we have been talking about here for two hours. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u261	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Stoyl Stoilov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Regarding this decision so far, we have heard doctors, we have heard lawyers, and I will speak as an ordinary citizen based on the debate I have seen so far. Firstly, regarding the legal wording of the decision, I am not a lawyer and therefore I start with this comment, because at some point it was mentioned that this regime could be arranged by order of the President of the National Assembly. In my opinion, this would not have been right, first of all, because this is an important solution and this debate is good and must be there. We must all hear the views, hear both the opinion of the ruling majority and the opinion of the opposition, and finally, when we make a decision, make it clear to the public that we have heard all the views. In my opinion, it is not right to make such a decision by order only of the President of the National Assembly, that is, without debate. On the other hand, I am not a lawyer, but I understand that it is difficult to find the right member on the basis of which to refer, because the precise wording of words is important. For me, what is important is that we pave the way for such a decision. This happened first in the administration of the Council of Ministers, thanks to the Prime Minister, and now it will happen with a decision of the National Assembly and this will show that it is possible that the measures that apply to the private sector can also be applied to state institutions so that we can actually be equal to all other citizens. So I think this is a good solution from this point of view. Essentially, the proposed measures for admission to the National Assembly have been mentioned so far as positive arguments: on the one hand, to protect the lives and health of all of us, both of the MPs and of the administration. It has been mentioned to set an example for the society that is watching us, it has also been mentioned that justice and those measures, which are for everyone else, should apply to us as well. I'll start with a little statistic to get back to what I think is really important. If we look at the Unified Information Portal for the Coronavirus epidemic, and the new cases in the last few days are as follows: on 3 January we have 1356 new cases, positive; on 4 January we have 1918 new cases; on 5 January we have 6252 new cases; on 6 January we have 6766 new cases. That's the first statistic I wanted to think of. Secondly, according to the Ministry of Health and Health, the information on the number of beds for treating patients with COVID-19 is that by January 2nd, beds for treating patients are 8822. Busy beds on 26 December 2021 are 3575, and one week later, on 2 January, the beds are 4173, that is, in just one week an increase of exactly 16% of the beds employed in the health establishments where a patient can be treated. From January 2nd to January 6, there is another increase of 672 beds occupied, i.e. only two weeks have increased by about 1200 beds in the system, provided that the capacity of the system is only nearly 9000 beds. To sum up, the cases are growing rapidly after the New Year from 1918 cases per day to 6766 cases, with the increase occurring within two days. And the other thing is that over half the beds in the system are occupied, and we're only at the beginning of the wave of the Omicron version, which means 4608 beds of 8822 are currently occupied. Let's get back to what the point of the measures is. Yes, the vaccine does not prevent disease, but the point of the measures is to protect the system from overload. When there are too many sick people trying to get into the hospital, but the beds are busy, then people die that we could save, but only if we make cases go evenly and not peak. With that in mind, let's ask ourselves what happens if we accept this decision. Bear in mind that, as MPs, as Dr. Simidchiev mentioned, we meet with voters, journalists, administration, ministers every day. If MPs get sick, then there is a good chance that we can make other MPs sick, make ministers sick. What if half of the Council of Ministers gets sick and has positive tests and needs to be quarantined? [[Laughter and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Thanks to these measures in the Decision we are trying to adopt, we will know faster if someone gets sick, and this will not prevent the work from continuing. We also have adopted measures for the remote participation and the work of the National Assembly will continue, and we will simply know who is sick and we will be able to slow down the spread of the disease so that we do not hit the system exactly at the moment it is complete. In summary, I will say why I will support this decision. There is a point in slowing the spread, because with these measures that we will take, we will slow the spread of the virus among us, among the administration and among the other people we are in contact with, and thus protect the system from overload. We will pave the way so that these decisions can happen easier in the future and thus really slow down the virus at the state level, give a good example to society and there will be justice to the other Bulgarian citizens who also have to follow measures. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u263	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Are there any lines to Mr. Stoilov? There are no lines. For a statement? Okay. Here you are, Mr. Gadget, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u264	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the beginning of this Parliament, the only thing that excites GERB is what applies outside to Bulgarian citizens, to us as well. You spent a month and a half as God-selected because you did not want to accept such proposals and look at this, and it ended up writing a proposal on a knee, which obviously does not meet understanding in the coalition itself, because by looking at representatives such as Toshko Yordanov and Professor Chorbanov, they squeeze their teeth very strongly, not to break them. Therefore, I am glad that the soccer who was asked to pay the Bulgarian taxpayers for the heavy soccer by "Democratic Bulgaria" - that is to say, the tests of the MPs to be paid by the Bulgarian taxpayers. I still do not understand why for the employees of the National Assembly committees appointed by you, Mr President, and by the chairmen of committees, Bulgarian taxpayers should pay them the tests. I also cannot understand the people who are obviously concerned about the health of the ministers, but are not primarily concerned about the health of all Bulgarian citizens who are affected in some way in the services, restaurant and hotel sectors, who must pay out of their pocket their tests if they are not vaccinated, they are not interested. Therefore, Mr President, I am making an editorial proposal to create a new item three, which reads as follows: The cost of purchasing and using rapid antigen tests for employees in sectors described in this section. 32 of the Order of the Minister of Health RD... as decided, to be at the expense of the budget of the Ministry of Health. "If you propose that the tests of the state administration be paid by the Bulgarian taxpayers, let the business, the people who work, not be paid by the salaries, but be paid in the same way as you want to do for your administration. The second proposal I make is point three...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u265	Just a second, Mr. Gadget. Do you have them in writing?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u266	I'll give them to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u267	Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u268	Second is the proposal for point three to be dropped. What do you propose at the moment from "We continue the Change"? In the formation of large groups of individuals to conduct rapid antigen tests, i.e. if there are tails, now I do not know, you will surely bring some white wagon here with medical persons to serve only the MPs and employees of the National Assembly, this is a waste of health resources for me and these persons, the MPs, to pass with priority. I'm sorry, aren't you ashamed? How can you not be ashamed of MPs to go by first and rearrange other people? If you have a little conscience, I suggest that this point be dropped, because this is outrageous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u269	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. An expected personal explanation now from Andrei Chorbanov. Just a second. There's no lines to Mr. Gajev, is there? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for this opportunity. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] And Mr. Gazhev, of course, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! When I was a student, I really wanted to participate in Blake's Seven. [[Relations and applause by GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] I was very impressed with the movie and wanted to be in this movie. However, I am sure that there are many people who are in the Chamber who wanted as children students to do scientific work, to comment on scientific work, to manage the crisis and so on. It is important to mention that when commenting on scientific results, when talking about science, when it comes to science, it should be from people who are involved in science. Who does science, I can tell you where it writes and tell you where it's checked. Everything else represents a serious distortion and adjustment of the people who are watching us right now. It's an extremely principled issue. What is very important to mention is that MPs should in no case be treated as something special, but it is a fact that MPs have several specific obligations which are with many countries, if you will even from the Labour Code. Nobody hired us here, none of you signed employment contracts. It is our duty to attend the meeting and I do not think that anyone has any right to restrict the presence of a Member of the National Assembly in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u271	Mr. Chorbanov, you have half a minute to explain yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u272	Thank you. I'm done. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u273	You haven't addressed Mr. Gajev yet by personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u274	I started it, didn't I?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u275	Just to thank him. Any other speeches? Desislava Atanasova, then Nikolai Drenchev. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There has been a long talk for several hours about the draft decision which I claim and support Mrs. Miteva's opinion that it is not flawless. Moreover, all the proposals she has made for editing in this draft decision are correct and we will support them because when considering a decision on the conditions and access to the National Assembly's buildings in the context of an emergency epidemic situation, we really need to pay attention to three countries. The legal one, first of all, because we must adopt legal decisions and constitutionally supported ones. The moral one we talked about a lot. We at GERB speak from the first Presidential Council and its first session, on the first day of this House, that there should be equal rules for Bulgarian citizens and MPs. We called you God-elects from this tribune because you've been acting like one for over a month. And the third political one. Yes, the subject will undoubtedly bring some of the political parties represented in parliament a round of applause from some of the Bulgarian citizens who do not support the measures of the current government or the office, however little they were, or the previous regular government. Others will insist that the measures be stricter because the colleague who was just quoting data, facts about the level of morbidity, what is the preparation of Bulgarian hospitals, but this, sorry, is no surprise in the last two years. In the last two years and the incidence rates varied, of course, during the different seasons and in the different handling of the measures, vaccination levels also. Months were missed by the caretaker government when the information campaign could be organised in a much better way or to talk about the expected new wave that threatens the world and not just Bulgaria. Today we are having a debate on whether the same standards should be applied between the Bulgarian citizens and us. What you have done as a proposal for editing our colleague from our parliamentary group Mr. Gazhev can be supplemented and I will supplement it with another editorial proposal. I'd like to propose a point. 5 of this Decision, after the word "the date', to be not "24 January 2022', but to "the date', to "10 January 2022'. Arguments. First of all, I do not understand why, ladies and gentlemen of importers, you have proposed a deadline for this decision, which will enter into deferred action, that is, not on the first working Monday of the administration or on the first Wednesday for the National Assembly, but on 24 January. This must correspond with those deadlines that they set in the Council of Ministers that the orders there come into effect after 40 days. But you understand how ridiculous it is against the backdrop of the three hours of claims that you are very concerned about protecting the MPs, that the rules apply equally to everyone and against the backdrop of the fact that for the Bulgarian citizens the certificates were introduced today for tomorrow and for the National Assembly to make an exception again. I don't understand this logic at all and please the importers this is a question for the importers. Mr. Ghurov, I ask you to answer me, so I mention you by name if the reason is that the National Assembly and its administration should be prepared with the purchase of tests and so on, it obviously has no time for public procurement or competitions under exceptional circumstances. In this sense, this argument will definitely be dismissed. Please explain to me the reason why this draft decision will only take effect in 14 days? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u277	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Are there any lines? I won't. Speech by Nikolai Danchev...................................................................................................... You have a minute and a half, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u278	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, we're getting things wrong. What democracy represents is the right to choose and be elected. It is not said that it is a right to choose only people with green certificates and the right to be elected are only people who have green certificates. The use of a green certificate is nonsense. This gives an opportunity to some minister who should be our subordinate, who should be subjected to our control, who should be called here and asked him exactly what he was doing and how he was doing, and how he was managing the ministry, defining and certifying the rights of the people who are going to ask him questions that are going to enter the Chamber. I don't know how many of us are really afraid of a deadly disease, but we have to be here at any moment at any time at a time when there is war or when bombs fall or when there are any dangers for us. If our people, if our country, if our country needs all this, we should be here. And that is why the building of the National Assembly is open both day and night, so the people who consult with us should have access here, the people who are our advisors, the people who complain, complain, who submit any proposals, the NGOs, all of them should have the opportunity to come here and exercise their rights. The rights to meet the people's elected, the rights to work, the rights to participate in the political life of the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u279	You're running out of time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u280	This is the biggest problem from this point of view the Constitution. You're running it now. In the name of the Constitution, I call on you to reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u281	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There are a lot of editing proposals. I've written them down, but if I miss one, give me a sign. [[Reply from GERB-SDS: Everyone to judge!]] Yeah, everybody decide if they've given themselves a sign, okay. [[Laughter]] We will vote on the proposals one by one. I'll start with the title: The following proposals are made in the title of the draft basic text by importer. The proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva is the words.............................................. for............................................. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u282	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u283	Thank you. Vote 169 MPs: 91, against 3, abstention 75. The motion is accepted. The next editorial proposal in the title is to replace the words in the terms of the title. This is a proposal of both MP Iva Miteva and the Committee on Health. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u284	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u285	Thank you. They voted 129 MPs: 121, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. The next editorial proposal in the title is on a proposal from the National Representative Iva Miteva after the word "October" to be added to the title. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u286	I'll hold back again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u287	Thank you. They voted 127 MPs: 59, none, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u288	After the editorials made, the title acquired the following content: "The decision to access the buildings of the National Assembly in the event of an emergency epidemic situation. Further down after the word "resolves" in the operative part of the decision in the first place...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u289	The motion to drop out shall be voted on first. Excuse me? I didn't hear you, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u290	The motion to drop out shall be voted on first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u291	Okay, thanks. A proposal came from the MP Iva Miteva the text before this. 1 drop completely. Please vote on the proposal. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u292	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u293	Thank you. Vote 124 MPs: 11 against none, abstention 113. The offer is not accepted. A proposal has been made by the Committee on Health in the text before. 1 words in the terms of the statement shall be replaced by the words in the case of the declaration. Please vote. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u295	Thank you. Vote 128 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 2. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on The proposal of the MP Asen Baltov is the following: the text of the article. 1 to acquire the following content: The access to the buildings of the National Assembly have persons who hold a green certificate.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is the proposal of the MP Asen Baltov. We vote. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u296	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u297	Thank you. They voted 164 MPs: 44, against 63, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of the MP Iva Miteva is the text of the article. 1 to acquire the following content: "In the event of an emergency epidemic situation because of the CIVID-19 access to the buildings of the National Assembly have persons who: Please vote on the proposal of MP Iva Miteva. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u299	Thank you. They voted 125 MPs: 79, against 1, abstention 45. The motion is accepted. The text acquires the following form: "In the event of an emergency epidemic situation because of the CIVID-19 access to the buildings of the National Assembly have persons who: We're going to letters from.... The first proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva is to drop out....
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u300	May I, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u301	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u302	I'm sorry, but you can't accept nonsense in the National Assembly. At least keep an eye on the vote. You accepted the above to be a request for access to the buildings of the National Assembly, then you adopted an import decision, accepting conditions for access.................. and then you accepted my direct start from the first point. I mean, are these terms? The decision shall adopt access conditions or a direct access decision. That is, if I were to be accepted as you have accepted it, in the event of an emergency situation the persons had access, you should not have accepted the text before. 1 supposes access conditions. The two things fight each other. Either follow the text of an importer, or accept the suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u303	Yes, come in, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u304	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mrs. Miteva! You are proposing an alternative solution here in the Chamber. The House voted on it, you're not taking part in the vote. We accept it, you go out and tell us we're making stupid decisions. Well, who's offering these solutions? Well, let's watch a little bit of what we're proposing, what we're voting for, and how we're voting at the end of the day. Yeah, we've been working on this for five hours... [[Heckling]] Well, why didn't you withdraw it when you saw that your previous proposal wasn't accepted and it changed the whole point? [[Heckling]] Well, why? Because that's what's going on. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u305	Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, there are some reasons Mrs. Miteva, because we just need to monitor what is being accepted. Her suggestions make some sense after we accepted the previous one, we just had to reject that. And colleagues from the PP, why do you vote for the EP, right, if I may... [[Heckling]] However, one of our fellow Members has failed to vote anyway, so I propose a re-voting of the last text that we voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u307	We are revisiting the latter at the request of the MP Christian Vigenin. We are revisiting the proposal to amend point 1. 1. The proposal is for the text to acquire the following form: "In the event of an emergency epidemic situation declared due to the CIVID-19 access to the National Assembly buildings have persons who: We're going over this proposal. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u308	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u309	Thank you. They voted 131 MPs: for 9, against 1, abstention 121. The motion is rejected. The text remains in the type of importer: The access to the buildings of the National Assembly has persons who... We're going to letters from.... The first proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva is to drop the words a full course before the word "Vaccination." We are voting on this proposal. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u310	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u311	Thank you. Vote 168 MPs: 50, against 3, abstention 115. The offer is not accepted. The second proposal of the People's Representative Iva Miteva for a correction in letter (s) is at the end of the letter to be added the text: Please vote on the proposal. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u312	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u313	Thank you. They voted 164 MPs: 42, against 1, abstention 121. The offer is not accepted. We're moving on to a letter. The proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva is identical, namely at the end of the letter to add the following text: Please vote. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u314	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u315	They voted 161 MPs: 42, against 3, abstention 116. The offer is not accepted. It's a letter. The first editorial proposal is to replace the words "the object" with the word "the buildings." The proposal is from the Committee on Health and National Representative Iva Miteva. Please vote. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u317	Thank you. Vote 155 MPs: 153 against no abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The next editorial proposal is in the letter "in" after the word "supplier," before the point and the comma, to be inserted the following text: "For a study within the meaning of Order No RD-01-973 of 26 November 2021 of the Minister of Health for the introduction of temporary anti-epidemic measures, as amended and supplemented by Order No RD-01-991 of 2 December 2021, the request is of the National Representative Iva Miteva. Please vote. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u318	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u319	Thank you. They voted 173 MPs: 54, against 3, abstention 116. The offer is not accepted. There are no editorial proposals in this letter. Moving on to point two. The proposal of the Committee on Health is in the preceding order of the text... cover......................................................................................................................................................... Please vote on the proposal. [[Reply from the hall: "There is a proposal to drop this point.]] I'm sorry, by whom? [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Who's the dropout from, excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u320	From Hristo Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u321	No, for dropping point three, it's from Hristo Gajev. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Zaprianov, on this proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u322	I'll hold off. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u323	I'm calling off this vote. [[(Reply from the hall:]] Did someone ask for a re-vote? Okay, we're going over this. Mr. Zaprianov, in the revoting?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u324	I'll hold back again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u325	Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm calling off the vote. Were there any suggestions for a complete drop on point two? I didn't record one. There are different parts of the point to drop, but not for the whole. Mr. Ademov, did you? [[(Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u326	In a statement? The offer was to drop the whole thing? Okay. We will now vote on your proposal. This editorial proposal will be accepted. They voted 164 MPs: 84, 44, abstention 36. We will now vote on the proposal of the MP Hasan Ademov to drop the point entirely. We are voting on Mr. Ademov's proposal to drop point two. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u327	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u328	Thank you. They voted 164 MPs: 75, against 48, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS:]] We are revising the proposal of the MP Hasan Ademov. [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u329	No, Mr. Tsonev, direct revoting. Mr. Zaprianov, in the revoting?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u330	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u331	Thank you. Vote 162 MPs: 66, against 52, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva is the text of point 2 to acquire the following content: The costs for the purchase and use of rapid antigen tests for mass media are borne by the budget of the National Assembly. [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] The editor of the National Representative Iva Miteva is to eliminate the current group of persons whose expenses are borne and to assume only for the mass media. [[Noise and lines.]] I read again the content that will acquire point two on Iva Miteva's proposal: The cost of purchasing and using rapid antigen tests for mass media is borne by the budget of the National Assembly. We vote on Eva Miteva's proposal. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u332	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u333	Thank you. They voted 161 MPs: for no, against 72, abstention 89. The offer is not accepted. For an explanation of negative vote "Tomas Bikov," then Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u334	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I, in this long debate and discussion, have not been able to hear the reason why only the media and their representatives have free or privileged access to the tests. I can't understand that, and that's why we didn't support the proposal. If there is a level playing field, it should be for everyone. With all due respect to the representatives of the media, they are also citizens of Bulgaria, as well as the MPs, as well as the administration, as well as everyone who pays their tests. In my opinion, this is in no way a fair decision. Separately, let alone that it might turn out that there will also be people coming to parliament to take a test. That's what happens in some cases. Therefore, let all privileges be cut off if we are to make a level playing field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u335	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u336	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I voted against because, in principle, the whole group is voting against any privileges. If Bulgarian citizens pay for their tests, there is no reason why my associate shouldn't pay for it. I'll pay him because I get two thirds. You understand what you've agreed to?! This is not true for the whole nation, but for our associates. That is why we voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u337	Thank you. Third explanation? I won't. We move on to the next editorial proposals under point 1. 2. The proposal of the National Representative Stoyu Stoev is to drop the text of the co-workers of the Members of the National Assembly. Please vote on Stoyu Stoev's proposal. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u339	Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] There's been a request for re-voting. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u341	Thank you. They voted 122 MPs: 97 against 2, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. The proposal of the Committee on Health is also in point. The following text shall be added in the third row after the word........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Please vote on the proposal from the Committee on Health. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u343	Thank you. They voted 122 MPs: 98, none, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. More editorial proposals on the e.g. 2 won't be after the votes. 2 acquired the following content: 2. The costs of purchasing and using rapid antigen tests for the assistants of the parliamentary groups, the staff of the parliamentary committees, the staff of the administration of the National Assembly and the representatives of the media shall be borne by the budget of the National Assembly. This is the final text. We're moving on to t. 3. The proposal of the MP Iva Miteva and Hristo Gazhev is t. 3 drop completely. [[Related to the side of the microphones between President Nikola Minchev and the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] The proposal of the MP Iva Miteva is that. 3 drop completely. You have it for a change of content. [[Relations of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev.]] Okay, it's the same thing anyway. We vote whether or not to drop the item. 3. The proposal came, first of all, from the MP Iva Miteva, then there is an editorial proposal from the MP Hristo Gazhev. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u345	Thank you. Vote 163 MPs: 161, against 1, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u346	I want a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u347	Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u348	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "There is such a people" we want a break within 30 minutes because we are having an in-depth dispute with regard to the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u349	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov, but you are not entitled to a procedural proposal in voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u350	The vote is closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u351	No, no, after all the votes are over. [[Noise and lines.]] We keep voting, there's not much left anyway. [[Noise and lines.]] The proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev is to create a new item. 3, which I will read. [[Definitions between President Nikola Minchev and the MPs.]] We move on to Mr. Gazhev's proposal and we vote. [[Heckling]] Okay, we're done with this discussion. Mr. Gajev's proposal is as follows: A new item is being created. 3 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 3. Expenditure on the purchase and use of rapid antigen tests for employees in the sectors mentioned under point (c) 32 of Order No RD-01-973 of 26 November 2021 of the Minister of Health are at the expense of the budget of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u352	[[GERB-SDS, from place]] : Correction.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u353	Do you have a correction on it? What? [[Noise and lines.]] I get it. Okay. Since that order has subsequently been amended in order to be correct, an amendment and addition must be added by Order No RD-01-991 of 2 December 2021. I read Hristo Gajev's proposal again. The costs for the purchase and use of rapid antigen tests for employees in the sectors referred to in paragraph 1. 32 of Order No RD-01-973 of 26 November 2021 of the Minister of Health for the introduction of temporary anti-epidemic measures, as amended and supplemented by Order No RD-01-991 of 2 December 2021, are at the expense of the budget of the Ministry of Health. We vote on Hristo Gajev's proposal. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u355	Thank you. They voted 165 MPs: 44, against 80, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Miteva. [[Relations of National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u356	Mr. Svilensky, please. Mr. Chairman, I ask you very much to comply with the Rules and on the basis of art. 58, para. 2 to respect the request made by the Parliamentary Interruption Group, and you must give it as soon as it is made, as according to art. 62, para. 1 from the announcement of the vote until completion, no speeches and procedural questions shall be allowed. The specific vote has been completed. So you must immediately... [[Noise and lines.]] The vote on the specific text was concluded and moved on to a next point. I beg you very much to follow the rules! [[Noise and lines.]] You're not in procedure. The procedure was completed. The vote was over and then we asked for a break from a parliamentary group. Please follow the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u357	Break for 15 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u358	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We continue to vote on editorial proposals. We've come to a point. 4 of the Draft Decision. Proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva 4 dropped completely. Please vote on the proposal of MP Iva Miteva to drop the item. 4. Mr. Zaprianov, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u360	They voted 121 MPs: for 119, there are no abstentions 2. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to... Tell me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u361	I want a break of 15 minutes because we have a problem in the parliamentary group. We have the right to request it. I'll ask you. Would you like me to make the proposal from the stands?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u362	No, I don't want you to do it from the stands. [[(Reference between the MP Petar Petrov and the chairman outside the microphones. Replies: Come on, we have parliamentary control.]] There's parliamentary control, yes. Mr. Petrov, we just made the interruption. Please, we've got 10 minutes tops on this thing. [[Reply: You can't say no to him.]] No, I realized I couldn't say no to him, I mean, I just did the same thing, but... Are you withdrawing the offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u363	No, I'm not. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u364	15 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u365	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We're moving on to t. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u366	We voted that point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u367	Excuse me? No, we didn't vote on it. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u368	We voted on it. 4
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u369	We're done with that. 3 votes, all votes passed on the item. 3, we're getting to t. 4. Let's go from t. 4. [[(Noise and lines on the left:]] Great, one less vote means one less vote. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Thank you to the colleagues on the left who also called. All right, t. Four out. We're moving on to t. 5. The proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva for amendment to the item "Iva Miteva'. 5 shall be: the words "the Access Terms of this Decision shall apply with effect from...' shall be replaced by "the Decision shall be applied by...'. This is the proposal of the MP Iva Miteva. Please vote on the proposal. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u370	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u371	Thank you. They voted 156 MPs: 53, against 48, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of the Committee on Health is: 5 words to be replaced by the words to be replaced by the words to become the Access Terms set out in this Decision shall apply with effect from 24 January 2022. Please vote on the proposal from the Committee on Health. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u373	Thank you. They voted 122 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. We continue with the last editorial proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Desislava Atanasova: the date of January 24, 2022 to be replaced by the date of January 10, 2022. Please vote on Dessislava Atanasova's proposal. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u374	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u375	Thank you. They voted 161 MPs: 39, against 93, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u376	We want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u377	Revoting at the request of MP Desislava Atanasova. Revote, colleagues. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u378	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u379	Thank you. Vote 160 MPs: 39, against 93, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. That concludes the vote on editorial amendments. Before we move on to the vote on the overall text, I will read it in line with the amendments voted. Project! DECISION on access to the National Assembly's buildings in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Accepts conditions for access to the National Assembly's buildings in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation as follows: 1. Access to the buildings of the National Assembly shall have persons who: (a) have been vaccinated against COVID-19, certified with a valid document for a full vaccination course; (b) have suffered from COVID-19, certified with valid medical records; c) present a negative result from a test carried out within 72 hours prior to entry into the building using the PCR chain reaction method for COVID-19 or rapid antigen test [[up to 48 hours before entering the buildings]] , certified by means of a valid document; or d) Certificate of presence of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 within the meaning of Section II, t. 3 (d) of Order No RD-01-973 of 26 November 2021 of the Minister of Health for the introduction of temporary anti-epidemic measures, as amended and supplemented by Order No RD-01-991 of 2 December 2021. 2. The costs of purchasing and using rapid antigen tests for the assistants of the parliamentary groups, the staff of the parliamentary committees, the staff of the administration of the National Assembly and the representatives of the media shall be borne by the budget of the National Assembly. Point 3 et seq. Four down. That's all that's left. 5 which is renumbered to t. 3. "3." The access conditions laid down in that Decision shall apply from 24 January 2022. Dear colleagues, this is the project we are voting on. Please vote. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u381	Thank you, Mr. Zaprianov. Vote 158 MPs: for 154, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. That concludes the vote. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u382	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u383	What do you want on behalf of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u384	Declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u385	Declaration? Because you already wanted a break. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Okay, we're closing item two on the agenda. Please come in for an affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The declaration will be very brief. We in the parliamentary group of..A movement for rights and freedoms... we believe that this debate on a topic on which we should have a consensus was unnecessary. The consensus in the sense that every person has the right to think whether to be vaccinated or not and which approach to choose the same applies to the MPs, the parliamentary groups and so on. But as far as we are all equal to other people, on this subject, I think we should not have discussed at all. From this point of view, our opinion on this debate has been heard, I will not repeat it and I have no right to speak on the subject. I just want to say that our parliamentary group will not benefit from the rights you have adopted with this declaration. We will pay our employees everything and our associates because we believe that we should all be equal to other people. If we make them pay, we pay. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u387	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. To inform you, honourable Members, of written answers to questions and questions received for the period from 17 December 2021 to 6 January 2022. Written answers were received from Minister Aleksandar Nikolov to a question from the MP Vladimir Marinov and to a question from the MP Martin Dimitrov. Received written answers from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Assen Vassilev to two questions from the National Representative Krum Zarkov; three questions from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov and a question from the National Representative Rositsa Kirova. Written answers by Minister Asena Serbenova to a question from the National Representative Alexander Simidchiev; to a question from the National Representative Asen Baltov and to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov. Written answer from Minister Bozidar Bojanov to a question from the MP Hristo Gazhev. Written answers from Minister Boyko Rashkov to a question from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov and to a question from the National Representative Hristo Terziyski. Written answers by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Borislav Sandov to three questions by the MP Zornitsa Stratieva. Written answer from Minister Georgi Gokov to a question from the MP Martin Dimitrov. Written answers from Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Grozdan Karadjov to two questions from the MP Ivaylo Mirchev, to a question from the MP Martin Dimitrov. Written answer from Minister Ivan Ivanov to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov. Written answers by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Cornelia Ninova of four questions by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a question from the MP Martin Dimitrov. Written answer from Minister Nikolay Denkov to a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev. Written answers from Minister Nikolay Subev to a question from the National Representative Angel Georgiev; to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov. Written answer from Minister Radostin Vassilev to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov. Written answer from Minister Stefan Yanev to a question from the MP Martin Dimitrov. Written response by Minister Teodora Genchovska on a question by the MP Kostadin Kostadinov. Written answers by Minister Hristo Prodanov to five questions by MP Nikolina Angelkova. Moving on to the final item today's agenda: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Within today's parliamentary control, we will hear the following answers to questions: 1. Kiril Petkov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, will answer a question from the National Representative Desislava Tsvetanchova Trifonova on the overall policy of the government regarding investment. 2. Borislav Sandov, Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy and Minister for Environment and Water, will respond to: - Question from the National Representative Zornitsa Velinova Stratieva on the imposition of forced administrative measures under art. 199 and 199a of the Water Act in connection with the floods on 14 and 15 December 2021 in Smolyanska and Blagoevgrad region. - A question from the MP Desislava Valcheva Atanasova and Mikhail Petkov Iliev about the quality of the atmospheric air in the town of Ruse. - Question from MP Krum Kostadinov Zarkov on criminal procedures against Bulgaria for violation of European Union law. 3. Nadezhda Yordanova, Minister of Justice, will respond to: Question from MP Krum Kostadinov Zarkov on criminal procedures opened by the European Commission against Bulgaria. 4. Asena Serbenova, Minister of Health, will respond to: - Question from the National Representative Boyko Lubomirov Klechkov on healthcare in Bobov Dol municipality. - Question from the National Representative Boyko Lubomirov Klechkov on healthcare in the municipality of Treklyano. 5. Ivan Ivanov, Minister of Agriculture, will answer a question from the National Representative Snezanka Raychova Trajanska about a problem with the riverbed of Banshtitsa, Kyustendil municipality, in the region after the treatment plant in the direction of the village of Yablekovo. 6. Nikolay Subev, Minister of Transport and Communications, will answer four questions: - by the MP Atanas Dimitrov Mihnev regarding the double delay of the deadline for the implementation of the repair of the railway station Stara Zagora and the brozhenia in the Stara Zagora public according to the design of the building; - by the MP Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov regarding the removal of eco-tikers for cars; - by the National Representative Zornitsa Velinova Stratieva on the construction of the construction of six electric locomotives with numbers 44109, 44111, 44126, 44197, 45113 and 45119; - by MP Krum Kostadinov Zarkov on problems facing shipping in the Bulgarian section of the Danube River. 7. Alexander Nikolov will answer a question from the MPs Atanas Dimitrov Mihnev, Anton Yordanov Tonev and Radoslav Krasenov Vasilev about the decision to suspend the financing of professional football club "Berohe." The decision to declare the team for sale and the price of the team and the deadlines for the implementation of that decision. In the absence of sickness, Foreign Minister Teodora Gencovska will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. There has been a question from MP Desislava Trifonova from GERB-SDS parliamentary group to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mrs. Trifonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u388	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In January, October 2021 Bulgaria has scored a record decline of 51% in terms of foreign direct investment compared to 2020. At the same time, a record in attracting and certification of investments for just over 1 billion has been achieved for 2020. BGN and only for the first quarter of 2021 certified investment projects were worth more than 800 million. lv. For comparison from May last year to today only 427 million investments have been certified. BGN, which is more than 53% decrease in certified investments compared to the first quarter in 2021. It was widely promoted by you, Mr. Prime Minister, receiving 602 letters of direct intent to invest in the country, and then it turned out, in the words of your advisor, that in fact only 129 letters are for direct intent to invest, the rest are for principled interest and cooperation, whatever that means. To date, it is unclear whether at least one of these 602 companies has actually carried out any investment actions in the country. In July 2021, you yourself stated, I quote: I expect 4 billion investments to enter the Bulgarian economy for 2021. "These 4 billion investments under the Investment Promotion Act as of December 2021 are gone and not only are not there and that in seven months only investments have been attracted for 427 million. BGN, but it also turns out that the Bulgarian Investment Agency is not working on projects of 4 billion by the end of the year, but only on projects of 800 million. BGN, as is clear from the message of the Ministry of Economy. This means that from July to December 2021 investors with investments of nearly 2.8 billion. lv. have refused to invest in the Republic of Bulgaria. Where are these investments? Bulgaria misses serious opportunities to attract investors, which have opened up from the shortening of supply chains and from the fact that global companies have decided to relocorate their businesses closer to their main markets due to the continuing impact of the crisis. And in this regard, it is also my question: what measures do you foresee in your overall government policy at national level regarding the promotion of investment in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u389	Thank you, Mrs. Trifonova. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u390	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is a very important issue for Bulgaria, I agree. First of all, I'd like to say a few stats to supplement your stats that you spoke. In 2020, there was not a single letter of intent for direct investment by the commercial representatives, which, yes, it is because they were dealing with other tasks. But I can praise them that we do have over 600 letters of intent in just 50 days. Of those 50 days, if you're saying that only 100 of them are for direct investment, I would also congratulate them that in 50 days taking 100 investment intentions is something very impressive. But back to most of your question. Bulgaria has the lowest taxes in the European Union, part of the world's largest market, we have a good fiscal position, we have a low level of loans. We should attract a huge level of investment in Bulgaria, but we do not attract them. You're right, very low levels, even if you look at the last 10 years, the levels are too low for what we should have. Why? There are several reasons. Cause number one is the high level of corruption. The truth is that the main concern of all outside investors is this. Talking to our colleagues both in Europe and outside Europe, we see that this is the biggest concern and block for entering Bulgaria as investors. We believe with our zero corruption policy that this thing will stop once and for all and you will see the direct result of this action.... how all the other things that make Bulgaria's potential really matter when people do not worry about their funds. The second thing is the lack of infrastructure. If you are an investor in Vidin, and you don't even have a way to get there normally, even if you like the place for investment, you still won't be able to do it. This is the second direction we've been working. The places to invest, such as infrastructure connections, to be priority where there is also great potential for the development of foreign investment. The third thing is to focus right on the companies that already have reason to be in Bulgaria. You must know very well that we are working on the added value line. We see who are the potential suppliers of existing companies in Bulgaria and their potential customers. As an example, Maxcom, the company, which is number two in the world in the production of electric bicycles, has already been able to attract their client with the help of the state; also Pierick Group, which is producing more than 5,000 different versions of electric bicycles. At the same time, we begin to think about how to attract their suppliers, such as "Shimano." If we approach each of the spheres in this way, reduce corruption, make the infrastructure the right way and finally manage to use that we have the lowest taxes and attract companies who want to trade with the European market, to do so from Bulgaria because of their low taxes, but also because of the good opportunities to sell across the European Union, you will see something we have not seen in the last 10 years to really use Bulgaria's potential to attract foreign investment and to be one of the engines of Bulgaria and its development. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u391	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Here you go, Mrs. Trifonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u392	Mr. Prime Minister, unfortunately, I see you have no new ideas for attracting investment. All these things that you have already listed have been part of the strategies implemented by the previous government. It is not true that there were no letters in 2020 and there were no communications with the sales offices. They are constantly and continuously operated with them, through emails, in any way. If you're expecting any official letters, you don't work this way, cleanly at the operational level check, please, how to work with them. Unfortunately, I have also not heard from you that you will propose an amendment to the Investment Promotion Act, that you will extend direct measures to attract investment now, and not the fight against corruption perhaps in four years. I also expected you to have learned a lesson with the electric cars project and, above all, to propose measures to tighten the direct financial assistance regime with a view to better selection of investors on objective and pre-set criteria of world-renowned companies with a secure financial condition. Here I refer to the given investment priority certificate for an electric car manufacturing company, which was granted record direct financial assistance amounting to 34 million. EUR for an investment of 280 million lv. The company started working in 2018 and went bankrupt in 2020, and for the first quarter of 2020, notice, it only delivered 500 pieces. For the purposes of 2021, the first quarter was 2500. It turns out that the company has serious problems with car security, brake problems, airbags and the hood of the car. [[Noise and laughter in.. We continue the Change.]] This will lead to the withdrawal of cars from the market. To date, the government's position on this topic has no investment, no investment. We've learned from the media that this year, in general, capital will be raised in the United States through a primary stock offering. We also understand from the media that there is a memorandum that you have signed and has not been made available to the media for a third month. In comparison, to say just a few words about what is happening in neighbouring Serbia, the Continental Old Motive announced an investment with 500 jobs and 280 million. [[Reply from.. We continue the Change......................................................................................................]] A global Japanese company has declared a 3 billion-dollar investment with 1,000 jobs. Another German company has declared an investment for this year alone of 130 million and 500 jobs. And for seven months...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u393	One minute you're out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u394	...sertify 427 million investments. lv. And if we have to wait for you to do an analysis, as recorded in your application of your legislative programme, Annex 19, item. 33 of the Investment Promotion Act, and then to propose a project for direct investment measures, we will probably have zero investments this year. We hope, first of all, that you propose urgent legislative measures and secondly, that the government engages in a specific amount of attracted investments for this year. In your coalition agreement there is no specific amount, that is, you do not commit that you will attract investments of 2 billion, 3 billion or 4 billion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u395	Mrs. Trifonova, you're almost twice the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u396	Thank you for your patience, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u397	Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u398	Thanks for asking. Just a few things to assure you. I also read this article in the very good media, which reports this thing. [[Laughter]] And there's a German quote that says... [[(Replication by MP Desislava Trifonova: I have read from German.]] Congratulations on the opportunity to read directly from German. The truth is that this is exactly the example of investments that we should want to attract, and the way we did it, I am very proud, because this is the first time we've done it. This 34 million instead of being given forward and instead of giving money with uncertainty whether it will be extremely successful or not, we bet them as an incentive if the company is successful, it gets them. In other words, if we have an investment of 140 million. Euros and if they start producing 10,000 cars a year, and a second step, if they start producing 20,000 a year, only then they get that money. What happened that way? Their investment, which was very advanced in Greece, moved to Bulgaria because this type of stimulus based on success led them to make the decision for Bulgaria instead of in neighbouring Greece. I think this is a very good example of how to attract these investments. By the way, I can also assure you of the good news that the project is currently moving at full speed. The projects are ready for the plant in Lovech, where 1000 jobs are expected to be opened. But what I want to tell you is, in principle, the large payment of money without having to do with real success is not the best practice, because this is a payment for lack of competitiveness. But when it is committed to the real opportunities for reporting success, such as producing 20,000 cars a year from Bulgaria to export them to the European Union, it is a very good example of how Bulgaria can attract high-tech companies, even if they are in relatively innovative spheres such as electric cars. I hope that we will be able to see many such additional investments in this form and I hope that when we succeed and with your help we will change the KKCONPI Act, reduce corruption, manage to make the infrastructure investments we hope Bulgaria will become one of the best places in Europe for making investments. We're on the 20th day of this government, just wait and watch. I hope we'll surprise you more than you expect. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u399	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. With this, the questions to Prime Minister Kiril Petkov about today's parliamentary control are closed. Thank you, Mr. Petkov, for participating. We are moving on to the questions of Borislav Sandov - Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy and Minister for Environment and Water. The first question is from the MP Zornitsa Stratieva. Here you go, Mrs. Stratieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u400	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reason to address you with my question is the effects of the harmful effects of the waters of December 2021, some of which are expressed in undermining and destroying roads and damage to bridge facilities, as well as the risks to critical infrastructure such as the pipeline to Greece, as well as undermining the road, a new bridge, a thousand-year bridge in Smolyansko. I note that in recent years, in every flood, both support walls and bridges have failed to function for tens of years and newly built walls and bridges. During the floods on 14 and 15 December last year in Smolyansko and Blagoevgrad, dikes broke again. They caused incredible damage. The reason lies both in the promiscuous logging of tree coastal vegetation, which strengthens the banks of rivers and protects them from erosion, as well as the mass seizure of deposits in recent years, resulting in the river bottoms of Maritsa and Struma, for example, digging the facilities with more than three meters, and in many places even sticking meters in the air. These acts shall be prohibited by the order of art. Art. 140, Art. 143 of the Water Act, as well as with explicit bans in river basin management plans, but are always disguised as cleaning the river beds, organised by district managers outside urbanised areas and by mayors in settlements, for the purpose of unlawful profit from carved wood and seized inert materials used as unsertified construction materials in previous management. The same actions shall also be closely coordinated by the Ministry of Environment and Water, such as regional environmental and water inspections and pool directorates, without taking into account publicly available guidelines for environmentally friendly, environmentally friendly methods, technologies and means of cleaning river beds available on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Water. My question to you is: in the event of harmful consequences for critical infrastructure when you will take advantage of your powers under art. Art. 199, Art. 199 199a of the Water Act to implement forced administrative measures? For the unfamiliar members, these Articles provide for the termination of the use of water sites, as well as the suspension of activities resulting in the destruction of the beds or banks of rivers, no matter what stage the implementation of contracts for the seizure of deposits or for the logging of strong coastal vegetation. These contracts were concluded by the district governors and mayors with private companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u401	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u402	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Stratieva, in relation to your question about the enforcement of forced administrative measures..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Art. 199, Art. 199 199a of the Water Act in connection with the floods of 14 and 15 December last year I would like to assure you of the following. The cleaning of river beds shall be carried out in accordance with the order of art. 140 of the Water Act. Under those provisions, riverbed cleaning activities for the purpose of ensuring conduction and flood prevention are determined by inter-agency committees appointed by the mayors where it is within the settlements and by the district managers, where it is outside the settlements, where representatives of the General Directorate of Fire safety and protection of the population of the Ministry of Interior, the relevant pool directorate, the relevant regional environmental and water inspection, the Executive Forest Agency, the municipality, experts, ecologists and other technical persons are included. In this way, the admission of activities which would lead to the existence of prerequisites for the imposition of such forced administrative measures under art. 199 of the Water Act. However, the truth that we have to say is that these mechanisms and these methods exist, but recent floods have reopened the debate as to whether the regional governors have the opportunity to carry out this activity and started a debate within the Council of Ministers, as well as within the Ministry of Environment and Water, whether this responsibility should be transferred to another competent institution, with such a proposal being discussed in the Council of Ministers. My particular opinion and the team of the Ministry of Environment and Water is that a probable institution that has the technique, experts, capital that can invest, these are state-owned forest enterprises, but a similar issue has not yet been finalised and is under discussion. What often leads to floods, in addition to climate change, is the improper approach by companies that, in order to remedy a problem, create a problem. What do I mean? More material is seized from the riverbed than is necessary for its cleaning, or sometimes illegally seized, and sometimes rather than removing fallen trees, healthy trees are cut down, which in itself creates such problems. To conclude, I would like to assure you that if, in the course of the implementation of the contracts concluded by regional governors and mayors under the procedure of art. 140 and the next of the Water Act, it is nevertheless established by the control authorities that there is an immediate danger of pollution, damage or loss of the environment, people or property of the State, municipalities, natural or legal persons, will proceed to immediate action and to commit administrative criminal liability, including the application of PAM. We don't have one yet, but we're under investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u403	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Stratieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u404	Thank you very much for your answer. I would like to inform you that it is appropriate to examine the areas dedicated to cleaning separately, and you can take advantage of the application of these guidelines which are publicly available on your website and, if possible, organise an independent inspection by competent institutions such as the Swimming Directorate to monitor exactly what is happening and how it is best to stop activities because there is quite illegal. At the moment even deposits are being seized from Maritza in several places. It's nice to do such an independent check. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u405	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. Would you like a douche? Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u406	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Stratieva, I admire that you are asking this question and I will use my duplicate to give other information. Otherwise, I'd be grateful to you to signal specific places like this. The information I have to give to the MPs, as far as you are concerned, is that from 1 January this year we do not have an active river basin management plan, a flood risk management plan, as well as a marine strategy. This comes from a legislative act, namely the amendments to the Water Act governing the issues relating to these strategic documents, and since the legislator has not provided for their effect after the expiry of the period until the new plans have entered into force, Bulgaria is currently in violation of the European legislation and the Water Framework Directive. I hope this doesn't lead to a criminal procedure. The Ministry of Environment and Water has launched the process. Currently it is on public discussion Draft amendment of the Water Act with exactly one sentence, which gives the possibility of river basin management plans, flood risk management plans, and the Maritime Strategy to continue their action until the new ones enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u407	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. We are moving on to a question from the MPs Desislava Atanasova and Mikhail Iliev about the quality of the atmospheric air in the town of Ruse. Here you are, Mr. Iliev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u408	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The problem with Ruse's air has a long history and this makes all Russians very sensitive to this problem. The Genesis of this problem is far in the past, when, by unknown rules in the city and the nearby surroundings of the city, large industrial enterprises have been built that spew cocktails of aerosol chemical compounds, which are most often released late at night and have been poisoning the inhabitants of the city for a long time. This problem is throbbing. Sometimes, when some measures are taken, it becomes slightly dwindling, then again, when the power of production rises, when production changes or filters are worn out, it becomes unbearable again, and it has been for many years now. Lately, I don't know exactly what causes the problem has become very serious. This led Russians, several NGOs from Ruse, to prepare an open letter to you, to the Prime Minister, to the Ombudsman, in which they proposed ten measures, in which each measure has specific things that you are aware of. I thank you that you, after receiving this letter, were in Ruse yesterday and made a briefing, but Russians and I as an importer of the questioning are not satisfied with the general wordings that you gave at the briefing yesterday. Therefore, it is quite rightly our question: which of these measures, which of these are laid down in the open letter, will you implement and within what deadlines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u409	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u410	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, Mr. Iliev, in connection with your question, I have actually visited Ruse, I have met with the Initiative Committee, first and then with the Mayor of Ruse Municipality, then with the Regional Governor of Ruse, as well as with the Director of the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Water and with a large part of the Agency's staff. I am familiar with the problem with Ruse, at least because the initiative of this Facebook group is at the heart of this initiative committee and I have been participating in this Facebook group for 10 years. In addition, you are right that for Ruse and the Russians the problem of the clean air is very delicate. I would say that people take this very personally, and as we know from history, issues of this nature are ready to make huge changes in countries and not to take into account any form of governance at that time. For our coalition government this is also written in the coalition agreement, preserving air cleanness and changes to lead Bulgarians to breathe fresh air are a priority. That is why my team and I have started actions to change the current way of control, incentives for municipalities, as well as guidelines for local authorities in this regard. The ten points that you mention can hardly be exhausted within two or five minutes, but I will tell you a few things about this, then I hope that in the coming days you will see our more concrete actions and engaging in specific deadlines. One of the key things is industrial enterprises in the area that pollute with specific volatile organic compounds that can sometimes be detected by measuring instruments available in this area. We will improve the quality of monitoring stations, one of which cannot even broadcast online, and therefore, if you open the data now, you will see that only one PM station can get information. The other one is accounted for, it works, but because the equipment is very old, it can't broadcast directly. The Ministry of Environment and Water currently allocates 1.4 million. lv. to strengthen these stations and then provide for 15 million. to go to expand the monitoring network. I'm opening the clamp to say that for the first time in 10 years at least, actually since there was a throwing, Ruse has twenty-eight days with abnormal levels of fine dust particles, which was the other problem besides industry, although industry also helps with fine dust particles. So Ruse for the first time enters the norms that are in terms of an annual number of days with pollution above the established norms. The other thing we will do is equipment, gas analysers to identify such volatile substances and create additional checks, including from duty teams at night, including from teams that are from the Executive Agency in Sofia, and thus avoid conflict of interest with the local regional inspection, as well as additional methods, including setting up real-time cameras so that what cannot catch him on duty team can be seen at least by a camera. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u411	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. For a line. Here you go, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u412	Dear Mr. Sandov, thank you for your empathy. I would ask for the following thing, as this problem is vital to all Russians and I as a Russian am as excited as they all are. So would you be committed to some program, a program containing deadlines and which tasks. I am aware that all will be difficult to fulfil, but which tasks, which measures can we implement and what deadlines? The fact that you said that funds were allocated for a chromatograph gas, but also in the question of whether you put in the budget a mobile automated measuring station, as this is a very serious problem, and as far as I know from the RIOS, there are no regulations regulating the limits of these aerosol gas cocktails. This is also a big problem that you have to solve. As far as fine dust particles are concerned, you yourself stressed at the briefing that in the near future European norms will be halved and this should not satisfy us that only 28 days we have overnormal fine dust particles, as the problem stands, and thanks to the fact that in December the weather was relatively good, the stoves were not working at full power. But the main problem with fine dust particles is transportation with internal combustion. Internal combustion engines, diesel cars and others largely generate these fine dust particles, which you know much better than I do. However, I thank you, and I would really like you to engage in two or three concrete measures and deadlines that we could implement to see the Russians see that our work has resulted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u413	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u414	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, Mr. Iliev, Mrs. Atanasova. I would like to further develop my answer, as far as and according to your appeal, more measures are needed not only to go below these 35 by the norm, but to strive for something much more serious. In this regard, I would like to say that the Ministry of Environment and Water through environmental management companies has first developed a mechanism for national funding to local authorities in dealing with this problem. This process has been completed internally, I hope, as early as next week, the Council of Ministers will decide and 47 million. lv. to go to municipalities, which in turn to replace, because there are still ones in kindergartens, in schools, in municipal buildings, to replace heating appliances that are currently on solid fuel and to replace them with alternative ones that do not emit emissions of either fine dust particles and some of them do not have carbon emissions. On the other hand, I would like to say that under the Operational Programme "Environment" within this programming period there are 120 million. BGN, which are also aimed at households for the replacement of heating appliances in these municipalities. Separately, some of these funds can be used to obliterate the city's mudspots, to replace electric cars for municipalities that have introduced low emission zones, as well as to create green beltes, along the boulevards, for example, from which we often have emission of fine dust emissions due to transport. Finally, because this is also important, Ruse in the late 1980s suffered from cross-border pollution. There's still such cross-border pollution. And it manifests itself in a special period of the year. Unlike us, Romania has not banned the burning of scraps, and when in late autumn they start burning them, the soot literally enters the windows in Ruse. That's why we initiated a meeting that happened before we took over the Ministry at the regional environmental inspection level on both sides of the border. And I commit myself to the next Council of Environment Ministers to meet with my Romanian colleague in person and to put this matter to him, and we will initiate a formal issue through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will say that, under the Convention on the Prevention of Cross-border Pollution, the ECPO on which both countries are members, as well as in line with our good neighbourly relations, it is also good for them to review this issue, as far as it has a cross-border effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u415	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. We are moving on to the next question to you by the National Representative Krum Zarkov on criminal procedures against Bulgaria for violation of the law of the European Union. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u416	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies ministers! My question somehow fits naturally in the previous and the next, in so far as one of the sanctions that we are suffering because of the violation of European legislation is precisely for air quality, and in principle there is a trend of increasing criminal procedures against Bulgaria. It is right to emphasise that a criminal procedure by the European Commission is being initiated against a country which does not comply, has not implemented rules, does not comply or has not implemented any European legislation, and one of the ministries, where these criminal procedures are the most numerous, is exactly what you are leading, dear Minister. You yourself have announced the existence of 16 such criminal procedures to violate European Union law in the Environment sector, you have pointed out serious problems and big sanctions that threaten our country, the one concerning the dirty air that you spoke about just now, about Ruse, but in other places is within 10 million. EUR since 2017, and since these issues can be resolved both with the firm action of the executive and with the necessary legislative problems, it is our shared responsibility to solve them, so is my question to you, my question. Please tell us on these 16 criminal procedures what their grounds are and what the stage of each individual of them is so that we can take action together so that sanctions do not come to an end.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u417	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u418	Dear Mr. Chairman, ministers, fellow Members! Mr. Zarkov, thank you for asking this question. He's extremely sensitive, but also important. In fact, the place to be discussed is precisely here, because perhaps half of these criminal procedures concern issues that are within the competence of the National Assembly and require specific legislative changes. With regard to your question: yes, 16 criminal procedures - this is the sector to which we have the highest proportion in terms of this type of action by the European Commission towards us. The stage at which they are four of these 16 procedures are at the stage of an official notification letter is the first stage of the pre-trial phase of the procedures. One of them concerns a lack of transposition within the Directive in the field of genetically modified organisms. There's a bill prepared. It will be imported, so I hope that this procedure will be terminated. The other three concern the implementation of European legislation on access to justice in the field of air quality because municipal plans are not subject to appeal and this has led to such a criminal procedure. I think if we explicitly put it in the Atmospheric Air Protection Act, we can solve this procedure as well. By the way, there is already case law in the opposite direction. The other, the third of this stage, is the disposal and disposal of waste in 52 regional landfills. This will be difficult because it concerns mainly local authorities and is a very serious resource to invest. I hope that through dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria we will be able to make progress. And the fourth of this stage is related to invasive alien species. The Ministry is preparing a way to prevent this procedure. This is about an internal document that we will be able to draw up and end. Six procedures are at the stage of a reasoned opinion. This is the final stage of the pre-trial phase prior to the referral of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The procedures relate to the construction of waste water treatment plants in settlements over 10 thousand. equivalent residents. Here I have to admit that we will most likely not be able to cope and we will go to a judicial phase because there is a huge delay in the water cycle projects of a number of municipalities that have this equivalent over 10,000. residents. Not to mention it's already working for settlements with over 2,000. residents for whom we do not yet have a penalty procedure, but there we are extremely late. We allow planning projects in Natura 2000 areas. This is where the Ministry works very actively. We have a new team that I hope will succeed in ending this procedure as well. Three procedures are for the incomplete transposition of national legislation "European Union directives concerning hazardous accidents, industrial emissions and EIAs. That's where I'll be seeking your cooperation. We will submit bills and hope that we will succeed within the coming months to end these criminal procedures with your cooperation. And the last of this stage's reasoned opinion relates to flood risk management and the need to report to the European Commission the updated preliminary assessment of flood risk. Here, I fear it concerns the previous such plan, and I am not convinced whether we will be able to cope, but as I said, we have challenges with these plans. I hope we can make progress. In the court phase, the other procedures are not yet filed...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u419	I'll give you some more time. We'll make up for it with the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u420	Thank you. There are four procedures in a judicial phase, with no decisions of the European Union being given yet. The judgments of the Court of Justice on three of the procedures will be settled. There are no financial sanctions there, but there are financial sanctions for one of them. Those who will be determined are related to exceeding the standards of sulphur dioxide in the territory of the Southeastern region for the management of air quality - this is the region of Galabovo, where the Ministry was recently convicted by one of the enterprises, a potential pollutant and the cause of this criminal procedure. The other relates to delayed reporting of data related to the state of the marine environment, which is also related to the Maritime Strategy that I mentioned. The third, which is established, is for the designation of protected zones and the designation of specific conservation measures, it shall be from 12 November. It is the newest procedure in the judicial phase, and it is also difficult for us to avoid a ruling to our detriment. And the case in which we expect sanctions, which you said, is about the abnormal levels of fine particulate matter. For there, a lump sum should also be admitted. I'm sorry, but I'd rather be honest with you. There's no way to change the data. The data is clear, we have argued certain things, but there is no way to change the data and I cannot expect any other solution but judgment. It will be first in such an order of 3,000. EUR 156 per day from 2017 The first case, so far, until the second case, which is about 10. 11 million. More like 11 million. lv. And 28,000. 386 euros a day after the decision to end the problem, which means about 20 million. lv. per year until we stop pollution with abnormal levels of air. The last two criminal proceedings, outside the judicial phase, relate to decisions already established by the Court of Justice of the European Union. One is in the case of Caliakra, for which we must compensate the already lost steppes. And the other is with regard to the depots that have not yet been reclaimed and have not been closed to the end. Thank you. I hope there's something else I can add in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u421	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u422	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, among other things, for your patience. Unfortunately, it is not the Minister's fault that the situation is such and so many procedures. In fact, Mr. Minister, this is also a kind of review of the state in which you find your ministry. We have to say that genetically modified products, the state of water, of air, of various cases that have inflamed public opinion and so on have been managed over the years so that we are currently facing these sanctions. This is not because of the European Commission or because of European legislation, as some often try to say, but because the Bulgarian state has not done its job to protect Bulgarian citizens. And now we're in the paradoxical situation that the Russians are paying our fellow citizens who sent us here, not only are they poisoning themselves, but now they're paying her for this thing. That is why we must not change the data, dear Minister. This cannot and should not, we must change the policy and approach. I am offering you and I am sure that you will start from those who are in the most advanced phase backwards, so that we can not only save the sanctions, but bring a really quality change. I think you can count on the majority for a timely response to these already complex laws. You have most of these procedures in your office. The others are in Mrs. Yordanova's office, which we will talk to in seconds about.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u423	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u424	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, Mr. Zarkov! From this high tribune, I want to tell you that we are taking this issue very seriously because, as you yourself said, this is not just a legal matter. This is a question related to the health of Bulgarian citizens, the cleanliness of the environment, the air we breathe, the water we drink, the waste we generate. Many of these procedures indirectly concern Bulgaria's economy and the well-being of Bulgarian citizens in general. In this regard, we have developed a plan which I hope will soon be announced as concrete measures, and from this tribune I am committed within this year and, with your cooperation, I also hope that we will halve at least these criminal procedures. Of course, the ambition is to minimize them. We have to say minimum, not to the end, because, as I have already said, at least two or three, and perhaps four of us could hardly catch up and prevent them. But it is very important that we will make every effort for an ambitious plan of measures, actions and bills that will lead to the resolution of many of these problems, and instead of talking only about the environment as an emerging problem, to talk about as a potential opportunity for development, as a better environment for living and for the future of the people in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u425	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. With this, we have exhausted the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy and Minister for the Environment. Thanks for being in control. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova with a question from the National Representative Krum Zarkov concerning criminal procedures opened by the European Commission against Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u426	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies of Ministers, Mrs. Yordanova! We continue this topic. You have reported to both the Legal Commission and to the public media 14 procedures for violation of European Union law, which the European Commission has started against Bulgaria, and some of them are at an advanced stage and we are also risking sanctions, and as Minister of Justice you have a view of the entire legislative process, so please share with the MPs and the Bulgarian citizenship for these procedures what are their grounds, what is the stage of each of them and what do you intend to take to get out of this situation?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u427	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u428	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Citizens! Today, I am going to talk about an extremely important and worrying issue for me, namely that, in the justice sector, we have 14 criminal procedures for non-compliance with European Union legislation and also the 15th issue on which the deadline for implementing European legislation has already expired, and therefore we are in a risk period. It's a dynamic problem. After the Legal Committee meeting, we have already developed some of the issues. Literally hours after we were finished, we received an application from the European Commission on one of the criminal procedures and I will start with this one. We are already in a judicial phase concerning a violation of our country for the non-application of European legislation, which is not a legislative measure, but in the practical fulfilment of obligations that the state has. It is a question that, at present, our Trade Register is not linked to the specialised system within the European Union and ensures the interconnection between the trade registers of the Member States. This should have happened in 2017. We are more than 4 years late. This story is extremely indicative of the years of neglect and inaction to fulfill important obligations. Bulgaria is the only Member State if you enter the European Union e-Justice portal that has not secured this access. In fact, part of the problem has been rooted since 2018, when, as you remember, the Trade Register was demolished for a short period of time. And as of now, the guilty are lost in the fog. Then Bulgaria is justified by this collapse before the European Commission for the fact that the Register is not yet connected, it has promised this to happen by the end of 2018, but as you can see, at the beginning of 2022 this is not yet over. What's the Justice Department doing? An Action Plan was established in mid 2021. The technological developments have been made, the Trade Register has been upgraded and at present we are in test procedures. The first stage of testing passed successfully in December, now we aim to pass the second stage of testing in February. We have expectations of finding errors in accounts, clearing data, and so on, that this will take some time, but the goal is that this process is completed by the end of June and therefore our Trade Register will be integrated with the other trade registers of the Member States. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Time?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u429	It's gone, but finish up, and then you can go on in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u430	Yes, very briefly about the other procedures. Four procedures are in phase two of their development. We have a reasoned opinion from the European Commission. The other procedures are in phase one, and as I said, we have a 15th case where we can possibly expect a negative reaction. I'll give you a little bit more data in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u431	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u432	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I am sure that you will be able to provide us with written data for each of the procedures, because time here does not allow us to discuss them in detail. But it becomes clear that the one that has developed for the Trade Register, as we will pay for the fact that we have breathed dirty air, will now also pay for the fact that our data is not protected and not implemented, that we do not fulfil the conditions of the single market, which means the same rules. You've described it as inaction and neglect. Perhaps, but in the justice sector, if we add the monitoring report and its thousands of recommendations, if we add the Annual Report on the rule of law and its criticism, if we add the decisions with which we are condemned in the European Court of Human Rights and which we have in mind, they have been persistently failing to implement, if we add the fact that in the Sustainability and Development Plan, which is a key plan for Bulgaria, this is one of the problems and is not just negligence. There has been an obvious reluctance to do certain things that we are responsible for doing, which have been expressed several times and are enshrined in the coalition agreement. We must do them quickly not because of the European Union, not just because of the risk of sanctions, but because of the Bulgarian citizens. And one more thing that you as Minister should have, and you will certainly have in mind. A clear trend has been observed since December 2017 to increase this number of criminal procedures. Bulgaria has an 180% growth in this period compared to what it had as criminal procedures before, and is now among the five member states with the most serious growth on this issue. There's obviously some structural reason why this is happening, too. I am not far from thinking that it is also hidden in the way the Bulgarian National Assembly functioned, the role that the Council of Ministers held, respectively the Ministry of Justice, in the legal process, and this analysis must be done now in order not to ask such questions after a year or two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u433	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u434	Mr. Zarkov, I cannot disagree with your comments. Indeed, part of the problem is also rooted in how the National Assembly has functioned in interaction with the Council of Ministers. Some of the questions I'm talking about have gone to some stage in the 44th National Assembly, but apparently due to neglect, they haven't finished. At present, we are prepared for five bills to be submitted to the National Assembly, and I will insist that they be looked at with the necessary Expedition and Priority. I'm taking this opportunity to open a clamp. Not only the problem of non-compliance and criminal procedures for violating European Union law must worry us, but we also have another large group of problems. It is about the failure to comply with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, which also concern extremely important and structural issues. So, I hope, I call on, I demand that we hold debates on this issue, if not at your initiative, at least when we are looking at the annual report that I am going to submit on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u435	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to Minister of Health Asena Serbenova with a question from the National Representative Boyko Klechkov on healthcare in Bobov Dol municipality. Here you are, Mr. Kletchkov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u436	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! In July 2015, two letters were received in the proceedings of Bobov Dol Municipality. One with No 06-00-91 of 2 July, the other with No 06-00-98 of 21 July by the Regional Governor of Kyustendil District on the implementation of a large investment project by the Ministry of Health under the Operational Programme. To this end, the municipality of Bobov dol takes measures by setting up a separate regulated land property for the construction of a building for rapid and urgent medical care. There is a 2015 decision of the Municipal Council in Bobov Dol, which shows that they give basic consent to the granting of the right of ownership in favour of the state through a donation contract on 1080 square meters of UPI-2, quarter 50 under the existing plan of the town of Bobov dol for the realization of the project. Given that health care in Bobov Dol municipality is under all criticism and constant signals for inadequate emergency assistance, the municipal council in Bobov dol held an extraordinary session on health issues and the need for adequate healthcare services on 15 January 2021. The session was attended by Dr. Ivian Benishev, Director of the Department of Medical Activities, Dr. Mileva, Director of the Directorate of Commercial Companies, Dr. Hristova, Directorate of International Programs and Dr. Apatinska, Director of the Emergency Centre in Kyustendil. Before the municipal councillors Dr. Benishev says that by 15 September 2021 the building for rapid and urgent medical care in Bobov Dol will be built. So far, there are no actions to show for the wonderful intentions, and the bad news is that the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020" is already in history. My question is: is the Ministry of Health aware of the state of emergency assistance in the municipality of Bobov Dol? Will you provide funds for the construction of the Emergency Medical Center?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u437	Thank you, Mr. Kletchkov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u438	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Klechkov, the construction of the new building with concrete construction is for the needs of the emergency medical care branch in Bobov Dol and is provided for under the project "Support for development of the emergency medical care system." The terrain on which the new building will be built was donated by the Ministry of Health of the municipality of Bobov Dol. At present, public procurements have been carried out and the following contracts have been concluded: a construction contract with a company called KSKV, which provides for the construction of a new building with a concrete construction. The value for the realization of the construction under this contract is also mentioned and is 268 thousand. 304 lv. There was a contract signed on 9 March 2021 with Life Energy Ltd for construction supervision during construction. The contract, which is also quoted in the reply, is with the company "Teraconsult" Ltd. and is for the exercise of copyright supervision. The deadline for the implementation of the construction works and for putting the site into operation is seven months after the opening of a construction site, but no later than 24 months after the conclusion of the contract, namely 10 March 2023.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u439	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kletchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u440	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I have never been able to understand the funding is secured or not secured? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u441	Thank you, Mr. Kletchkov. Please come in for an answer, Mrs. Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u442	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kletchkov, it is justified, of course, this concern and concern about the state of emergency assistance in Bobov Dol. There is a worrying moment regarding the implementation of the concluded contract, which we quoted, as of 11 March 2021 with the company "KSV Engineering" Ltd. the contract for construction of the emergency branch, and it is the following: due to the increase in the prices of materials and services in recent months the company does not start work, but does not want to break the contract, that is, the problem is not whether funding is provided or not. The company itself, which is a contractor, due to an increase in prices and the inability to be increased and updated in the contract does not start work. We are currently looking for a legal mechanism for this to happen. I'm sure we'll find him, and then we'll have to announce a new procedure. The duration of the project is extended as well. Since I ordered a check from your question, for which I thank you and all other contracts that are within this project, it was found that the company in question has committed to five sites in Kyustendil District, four in Blagoevgrad and four in Varna. The contract implementation period, and they are generic talks, is 24 months and no stages are set. In practice, at the moment, this company, as well as all others who have concluded similar types of contracts, can be said to formally fail to fulfil their obligations. However, the problem has been identified as it concerns price indexing. We are working with an external valuer who will evaluate so that the entire project can be implemented and those funds that are provided are used, i.e. what the indexing will be so that the work can continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u443	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. The next question is also from the National Representative Boyko Klechkov on healthcare in the municipality of Treklyano. Here you go, Mr. Kletchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u444	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, Mr Minister! The municipality of Treklyano is the smallest municipality in Bulgaria. The whole municipality is in a mountain area where 19 villages are located and the majority population is of adults. Here, the social state has ceased to exist the health care and medical services of the population in the municipality are carried out by a general practitioner, and the emergency medical care, the specialized hospital and hospital care are provided by the district town of Kyustendil, which is 40 km away. In April 2021, the general practitioner who serves the municipality died and since then there has been no health care. There's no hospital, there's no pharmacy, and in a word, you shouldn't get sick. To a certain extent, the mayor of the municipality and the employees play the role of doctor and on their trips to the district city buy medicines. Not to mention that there are people there who use free recipes, and these recipes have no one to give them away. My question to you is: how does the Ministry of Health resolve the issue of medical care for small municipalities? Why has the municipality of Trekliano for more than nine months no general practitioner has been involved and who should control this issue?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u445	Thank you, Mr. Kletchkov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u446	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Klechkov, the medical service of the population in small municipalities is an integral part of the general health system and it is necessary to consider it as a functional union of activities and structures with opportunities provided, but as you rightly noted, with access of the population to emergency medical care, outpatient and hospital medical care. At the end of last year the municipality of Treklyano consists of 19 settlements with administrative center village of Treklyano with a population of 768 people according to data from the National Statistical Institute. In the municipality the complex medical care is provided for emergency medical care through the teams of the Center for Emergency Aid in the city of Kyustendil, for outpatient medical care through revealed practices in the city, and for specialized outpatient medical care According to the requested and delivered opinion of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund and the Director of the Regional Health Insurance Fund "Kustendil, the village of Treklyano has revealed a practice of primary outpatient medical care which was occupied by a doctor who, unfortunately, died by 15 June 2021. The opinion of the RHIF also states that of the population of 768 people in the municipality 96 people did not benefit from their right to choose a general practitioner. Despite the additional amount paid by NHIF, respectively RHIF in Kyustendil, amounting to BGN 845. for work under adverse conditions and held talks with general practitioners, currently there are no willing to occupy practically primary outpatient medical care in the village of Treklyano. In the context of an unprecedented spread of coronavirus infection, this issue is of even greater importance in the country's emergency epidemic situation. To resolve this issue, as well as all similar in similar municipalities, because this is not seen as a phenomenon only in this municipality, it is necessary that all institutions interact, including community activity, in order to unite the resources they have in order to achieve the good balance we strive to ensure and ensure access to timely medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u447	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. Would you like a line? No. We're also running out of questions for the Minister of Health. We are moving on to a question to Ivan Ivanov, Minister of Agriculture. The issue is from the National Representative Snezhanka Trayanska concerning a problem with the riverbed of Banshtitsa, Kyustendil municipality, in the region after the treatment plant in the direction of the village of Applekovo. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u448	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, Mr Minister, colleagues! I'm not going to expose in a long story what the state of the river is. The case has been described and the Minister is aware. The river is too contaminated, it has come out of its trough and threatens the main road Sofia "Kustendil between Kyustendil and the village of Applekovo." I'll thank you when you answer the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u449	Thank you, Mrs. Trajanska. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u450	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms Trajanska, at the beginning of August 2021 by the district governor of Kyustendil district of the Ministry of Agriculture, a request was made in connection with signals from a group of municipal councilors from the Political Party of the Greens, a civil list in the Municipal Council of Kyustendil, concerning the displacement of the trough of the river Banshtitsa in the land of the village of Yablekovo, Kyustendil municipality, threatening to undermine the road sail of Republican road I-6 Güeshevo. The Regional Governor has provided these signals in the Ministry of competence given that in the draft budget of the Regional Administration of Kyustendil, for 2021 amounts have been requested to maintain the flow of river russians, but no amounts have been approved for activities under art. 31 of the Water Act. The annexed documents to the request show that a joint inspection has been carried out by the West-Belomour Region Swimming Directorate and a representative of the Regional Administration of Kyustendil, which found that the section is outside the village of Applekovo and has not been corrected. The verification also found that the old riverbed was heavily squeezed, resulting in the destruction of the shore and water entering the agricultural land. As a result of the high waters and their erosion over the years, the destruction of part of the right bank of the river continues. By letter dated 25 June 2021, the West-Belomortal Region Swimming Directorate gave instructions to the regional governor of Kyustendil District within 6 months of receipt of the letter to take action to ensure the conductivity of the section described in the constant protocol in the performance of its obligations under art. 140, para. 5 and para. 6 of the Water Act, namely: The cleaning of river beds outside the boundaries of urbanized territories and the maintenance of the conduction of river beds are assigned to the district managers. By letter to the Ministry of Agriculture, the regional governor of Kyustendil district refers to the provisions of art. 31, para. 2 of the Water Act, namely: "When the waters of the river as a result of natural processes, including natural disasters, form a new trough and abandon the old, the new occupation becomes public-state property, and the affected owner is obliged to notify the authority under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 or t. 2 of the Water Act, which, on the basis of technical and economic analysis, takes action to correct the changes that have taken place. In the verification carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture it is found that the Banshtitsa River in the said problem section is not a part, unfortunately, of the facilities to address this issue. Protection against the harmful effects of water is public state property within the meaning of art. 13, para. 1, t. 3 of the Waters Act with granted management rights of the Ministry. The section referred to in the attached documents to the letter of the Regional Governor of Kyustendil district there are no systems and facilities available to protect against the harmful effects of the water built by state resources, namely protective dikes, correction of rivers and drainage systems falling within the scope of the state policy related to operations, construction, reconstruction and modernization, which is carried out by the Minister of Agriculture under the provisions of art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 (a) (b) of the Water Act. The site is also not included in Annex 1 to Contract No РД 50-23 since 2019 with Irritative systems and is entrusted with the public service for protection against the harmful effects of water and exploitation, maintenance of water systems and public state property facilities, concluded on the basis of § 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Water Act. Seen from the letter of the Basin Directorate, the West-Belomorski Region, from 25 June 2021, the waters of the river have not broken the trough as a result of natural processes, but as a result of failure to comply with the obligations of the district administration, in relation to which the Minister of Agriculture has no reason to take action under art. 31, para. 2 of the same law. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 138, para. 4 t. 1, para. 5, t. 2 point (b) of the Water Act and in relation to Art. 31, para. 1, t. 3 of the Administration Act by letter of 20 October 2021, the Ministry of Agriculture returned the documents submitted to the letter to the district governor of Kyustendil for taking the action of competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u451	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a line? No. Thank you, Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev. There's four of them. The first question is from the MP Atanas Mihnev concerning the double delay of the deadline for the implementation of the repair of the railway station Stara Zagora and the brozhenia in the Stara Zagora public on the design of the building. Mr. Mihnev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u452	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister Subev! It was very easy to ask my first question and actually by 13 December, when asked, this was the biggest problem for the Stara Zagora MPs: what will be the color of the station? This was, of course, before the dramas with the Football Club appeared, which we now have to solve, but essentially. See Stara Zagora Station was renovated under a 10 million euro project. EUR, essentially for our station of this project.......................................................................................... EUR, or 16 million. lv. The repairs are delayed, with the initial deadline being October 25th this year, then moved to November 28th and now moved to May 13, 2022. The first question is: when will Stara Zagora's station building be put into operation; when will this notorious renovation be completed and, of course, because in all major infrastructure projects we have reason to doubt, except that I want to know why this renovation has slowed down, I want to know if the price is adequate, justified, is it possible to have abuses, increased prices of materials and labour compared to the market, which was common practice with the previous governors? And in addition, like last time. The design itself of the station building caused a lot of brocade among the Stara Zagoras, as the panels used for the lining are yellow in color by the architect's decision, and we, Stara Zagoras, believe that they should be green. Minister Sabev, you know, Stara Zagora is the city of the limes, the city of "Berohe" - the greenest town in Bulgaria, the town's crest itself is also green. In this regard, there were a lot of signals, a lot of signatures from the Stara Zagora public. Here in front of me I have one of the signatures, which is on the fan club of Beroe. "Maybe we should say that Vanya Jaferovic has also signed, Stefan Valdobrev, Parvan Simeonov and other prominent Stara Zagoras. [[shows]] Our request is for the panels to be green, with which the building is lined. Is it possible to replace these yellow panels with green panels? If so, please make a decision in this direction by the NRIC as a principal? Thank you. I'll leave you the petition of the Stara Zagora public here, even though you have it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u453	Thank you, Mr. Mihnev. Here you are, Mr. Subev, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u454	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihnev, I had the pleasure of preparing myself with my answer on December 13th, but until now I had no opportunity to come out and give my official answer. The information is as follows. The contract for reconstruction of Stara Zagora railway station was signed at the end of 2019 for a period of two years and had to end at the end of last year. This period is currently extended until May of this year. The reason for the extension is to amend the project and supplement the building permit, which is agreed with the Ministry of Regional Development and the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. The building of the reception building is included in the list of monuments of culture. The reasons for the amendment in the project are that when revealing some of the building structures there is a non-compliance of the project with the existing situation. These are deviations in the sections of the roof and floor construction, elevator and floor panels which could not be predicted when designing the project. I assure you, since I have a practice in restoring old buildings, it is a completely possible scenario. The renovation of the building has not been delayed twice since the contract had to end at the end of November, i.e. the delay would be six months. The prices of materials and labour for the implementation of this project are set out in the tender documentation and there is no increase in values thereafter. I am informed about the controversy among the Stara Zagora public about the choice of color of the reconstructed station, however, the project proposal approved yellow color, which was voted by the Municipal Council of Stara Zagora. Any change in the project would lead to a loss of public funds, as currently labour and material prices are increased by two to three times compared to the period of the procedure. The project implementation materials have already been purchased. And specifically to your question, Mr. Mihnev, when will the reconstruction of Stara Zagora railway station be ready? I would like to assure you that I will do everything in my power to invite you and the other MPs from the area on May 13th this year to discover together the rebuilt railway station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u455	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mihnev, would you like a line? No. We move on to the second question by the National Representative Martin Dimitrov regarding the removal of ecotiques for cars. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u456	Dear Mr. Chairman, Ministers! Dear Mr. Minister of Transport Subev, the issue of ecostikers is extremely key because we gave two billion to build an electronic government, we have electronic wineries and this system works very well, and now the Bulgarian citizens were forced to install ecostikers, which increased the technical reviews as a cost between 10 and 15 BGN, first. Secondly, very uncomfortable as a place to place some cars cover part of the glass. Thirdly, there were to be e-readers to start operating on 12 January this year, the 2022, which is known to be very serious delays. But the most important question, Minister, is that many people put it that way. Why do we have electronic wine? Why did we give two billion for electronic services and go back to paper solutions? There is no reasonable answer to this question. Moreover, not only are such paper eco-skirts put in place, a new reading control system will be built, which will be an alternative to the current cameras, which are used as an example to control the wineries. So for each thing we will do a separate control system for the wines, a control system for the ecotiques, tomorrow there will be a third control system and everything costs tens of millions, honourable colleagues. Therefore, the logical question, Mr. Minister, which is very widespread, and by the way, this is introduced by Decree No H-32, that is, it is not part of the laws of Bulgaria. And you know that the regulation is a regulation and can be amended and amended only by your act and public discussion, so this question will be asked you and it is asked. I asked Mr. Alexiev, who was understanding, and he initiated a procedure to amend this regulation. It just so happened that his mandate was short, but he got to the point of the problem. In the end, it is about this: we have to save people costs. You come from the private sector. I think you're a very successful person, you know what cost-effectiveness is. That is why I believe that a person like you, who knows that money should be saved for people, that they should not be imposed additional quasi-taxes, that by calling it an electronic government, it should be exactly that. Just someone like you I think would understand and think about how this additional cost should be removed and not happen for Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u457	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you are, Mr. Subev, for your answer. I'm just asking you to always be on the microphones because we're transmitting directly on BNT 2 and on BNR and it's not being heard well enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u458	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I would like to begin with a declaration on the policies of the Ministry of Transport, which is very important and it will be determining for our behavior in the next few years. The Ministry of Transport and Communications will follow the policies of removing all unnecessary documents that are created on paper and making it difficult for citizens and society, including unnecessary stickers. The certification of the category and standard of the vehicle should be carried out with one identification mark. At present, the system established in Bulgaria that checks and ensures that the vehicle meets a certain category and standards includes a certificate of registration and the sign of technicality of the vehicle. The amendments and additions adopted to the Regulation issued by the Minister of Transport and Communications have been made investments by the points of annual technical examination. Therefore, in the next two weeks together with the Minister of Electronic Governance, Minister Bozhanov, we will assess how investments can be used, and among the possible options are using other built systems with similar capacity or improving the system established by the regulation. In short, we are convinced that parallel duplicate systems should not exist. There must be a single effective system and this must help citizens to easily navigate, to make identification of means of transport easy, and this has to do with a better way of life. But we also understand that investments have already been made in two directions.. Sofia Municipality has made investments, the Technical Review Points have made investments, the smart thing is that we say: well, you have done, thank you, we will no longer use them, but find a way to re-use the investments already made so that this will once again bring public benefit and there will be no conflict of interest. I can assure you that we will actively work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u459	Thank you, Mr. Subev. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u460	Dear Minister, of course, I am pleased with your answer and such a thing I expected from a person who comes from the private sector and is asked a question: why burden citizens with additional quasi-taxes, of course we should not burden them. Now about the investments made. Yes, these are not particularly clever expenses, unfortunately, but they can be used as follows. The reading of any information relating to the vehicle shall be done with the registration number, whether it is an electronic bill, or a determination of the category of the vehicle. There is no need for one question to be the number of the car when it is electronic wine, on another question, when it is a category, to be some sticker, on a third point to be a third thing. Administrations, Mr. Minister, do these things to spend extra money. They make these things up and they say, now we're going to do seven different control systems, each connected to a lot of cameras and costs. Who's gonna pay for it? All of us Bulgarian taxpayers, of course. And by the way, until recently, working, you've been paying these unnecessary expenses. Honestly, when you paid your taxes, they went for this kind of stuff. Well, we have to say, we can't do this anymore. And okay, I agree with you, you need what's done as an investment, although not very smart, to be used, but remove, as you promised, remove the ecostikers, connect all this with the vehicle's license plate, tighten the technical examinations and control on them, the cameras that... Everything to do with cameras and cameras to be the same, not to make alternative control systems. Let's make sure that our taxes can't run into such extremely questionable events. I congratulate you on working with the Minister of Electronic Technology, Mr. Bojanov, and I wrote to myself today. You can form a very high quality team on this subject and really hear the following thing: yes, by making an electronic government, these practices from the past we call it electronically, but we'll put this paper sticker on, because that's how we've decided some millions to spend it. This can no longer go on and we rely on you, Mr. Minister, to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u461	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u462	I confirm Mr. Dimitrov's words.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u463	Okay, thank you, Mr. Subev. We move on to the third question to Mr. Subev, who is from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva regarding the construction of six electric locomotives with No 44 109, 44 111, 44 126, 44 197, 45 113 and 45 199. Here you go, Mrs. Stratieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u464	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry I messed up the order, Mr. Minister! My question is in connection with an open procedure under the order of the Public Procurement Act, as a result of which was concluded contract No 183 of 3 October 2019 with a company called "JP Traction" Ltd. The subject matter of the contract is for the construction of six electric locomotives, owned by BDZ The contract was concluded with a period of 24 months, but on 1 October 2021, two days before the expiry of that contract, a further agreement was signed which extended the period of implementation by another eight months and became a total of 32 months. In this regard, please inform me what the extension of the contract with JP Traction Ltd requires? Is there a delay in the execution of the contract by the contractor? Have financial claims been made for the delay of this contract and/or for poor performance to the contractor by the contracting authority in the face of BDZ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u465	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. Here you go, Mr. Subev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u466	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Stratieva! The data are as follows: at the end of 2019 between BDZ To date, there has been a complete construction of a single issue. In March 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2016/849. JP Traction. Ltd. informs the BDZ Passenger Services Ltd about the temporary suspension of the performance of the obligations under the contract due to the occurrence of a circumstance representing force majeure within the meaning of the contract. The letter referred to as such a circumstance as the declaration of a state of emergency in the Republic of Bulgaria of 13 March 2020, the measures taken to limit the impact of the global pandemic and their impact on the economy. By additional agreement of 1 October 2021, the contract period has been extended from 24 to 32 months to 3 June 2022, and no further delays relating to force majeure will be respected for the extension period by the contractor. The Ministry of Transport and Communications took measures in a timely manner. What do they consist of? We have found that, so far, despite the huge delay and various signals that this repair is not being carried out properly, neither an audit of the internal audit of the Ministry of Transport has been requested at this time, nor has this information been submitted to the Agency for State and Financial Control after that. As of today, the Internal Audit Unit has been ordered to carry out a comprehensive inspection of this contract. If the audit detects violations, then, Mrs. Stratieva, there is no doubt that we will transmit all information to the State Financial Inspection Agency. Regarding the second part of your question, have financial claims been made for the delay and failure to comply with the contract? Yes, these were filed and a penalty of BGN 47 922,32 was charged. At the moment, two additional locomotives were renovated - series 44 and 45, whose performance was monitored daily and no delays were found at this time. In conclusion, I can point out that at the end of last year at BDZ, Road Transport Ltd. was launched an analysis of the quality and the temporary implementation of all contracts for repair of rolling railways carried out by external contractors, and by 16 January this year all findings of non-compliance will be subject to sanctions under the terms of the contract. In particular, in each of the audits and reviews of the contracts concluded in the Transport Ministry's system, any case of detected public interest will be immediately submitted to the relevant authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u467	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mrs. Stratieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u468	Thank you, Mr. Subev, for the information provided. I hope that contracts will be concluded from now on, as in this contract of 1 October 2021 we have seen that the reasons are rewritten by the Law, and they are practically not motives, but a rewrote thing that is not done in modern practice. We know you're not responsible for these actions. Thank you for what you're going to do from now on. In this way, we hope that public procurement will no longer be awarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u469	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. There's no back-up from Mr. Subev. We move on to the final question to Nikolai Subev. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov. The issue is about problems facing shipping in the Bulgarian section of the Danube.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u470	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Ministers, Dear Mr. Subev! You are a Russian and a person with competence in logistics, transport, forwarding, so you do not need time or I am the person who should introduce you to the problems of shipping the Bulgarian section of the Danube. In fact, it is widely known that Bulgaria has been unable for years to maintain an open waterway in its section, which is its international commitment for a long time. Last year we finally acquired as a state our own vessel equipped with the necessary dredging equipment. This year it should already be able to work and hopefully this improves the situation. But we can't miss that, according to the specialists that I had the opportunity to meet, there are places where dredging won't be enough. The area of the island of Belene is indicated between 561 km and 565 km. There are periodic deposits, the so-called thresholds are formed and make the passage impossible for relatively long periods of time and pile up vessels on both sides of this seal. Therefore, my question to you is: what measures do you intend to take to ensure normal year-round shipping in the Bulgarian section of the Danube and specifically to overcome the chronic problem in this section?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u471	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mr. Subev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u472	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Zarkov! The topic of shipping along the Danube River and the year-round use of our section is strategic and especially important to us, in the Ministry of Transport too. On the subject. Improving shipping in the Bulgarian section of the Danube river is extremely important. Unfortunately, as you have noted in your question, the state of the river in the Bulgarian-Romanian region is not at the level necessary not only in the Belene station but elsewhere. For your quoted section between 561 and 565 km, a specific project was implemented back in the years, but Batin "Belene continues to be a critical section where the river collects many deposits. Practically regular dredging in the Bulgarian section is not available. A project with European funding is currently being implemented, under which the dredge is provided, this is a water pit for digging the bottom, pipes for transporting the extracted material, a non-self-propelled ship to collect this material, and a ponton, and by the end of March this year a ship is expected to be delivered and maneuverable. But what is important to know is that I would like to check and have appointed an inspection to the Internal Audit Unit of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The check must establish whether the management of the Executive Agency "Study and maintenance of the Danube" has performed its duties in good faith with available resources and previous practice while waiting for the arrival of modern professional equipment. According to this agency, they will be able to start self-drigging only at the end of 2022 or at the beginning of 2023. Until then, a new procurement procedure is being prepared to cover the need for dredging in the period until effective self-dreeding activities are started. To finally solve the problem of shipping the Bulgarian-Romanian section of the river, the Bulgarian and Romanian river administration will apply jointly to finance engineering measures to ensure sustainability of the shipping route. Construction of structures will be carried out in the river mermaid and strengthening the shores in the selected critical sections. The implementation of the engineering measures will be included in a joint project planned to be submitted for approval and funding by the Connectivity Mechanism Europe-2 after 2022. In support of supporting dredging during the new programming period 2022, 2027 is planned to purchase and supply a self-propelled type of sucker for optimal reactions when more critical sections along the river occur at the same time. I think it is important to inform the honourable Members and you, Mr. Zarkov, that we have planned a meeting with the Romanian Minister of Transport. I hope this will happen even this month at which we meet, except that we will look at all the possibilities for increasing the crossing power between the two countries, so that Bulgaria becomes easier to reach a destination, at this meeting we will also look at the issue of the possible opening of the river, apart from the possible bridges that we want to build together so that indeed in the long term we can ensure that this section of the river is well used all the time of the year, which is also our economic goal that Bulgaria can see growth of this part of our water industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u473	Thank you, Mr. Subev. Would you like a line? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u474	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I am satisfied with the fullness of your response and indeed these are the measures, regular dredging, checking the way the competent structures do their job. But I take my cue basically to congratulate you on this initiative that you have taken for a much closer cooperation with the Romanian side. It is obvious that these few very difficult sections of the Danube should provide for engineering facilities. In fact, the Bulgarian-Romanian part of the river is the only one that does not have one, and this requires cooperation with the Romanian side as well as competent work to ensure the financing by the European institutions. So you have all our support on this. We must act quickly because these famous 250 cm tear not only our city of Ruse and this part of Bulgaria from Europe, but are an extremely serious obstacle to the development of the whole of Northern Bulgaria. Therefore, with the height of these responsibilities must be approached vigorously and I am pleased that you have done just that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u475	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. There won't be a duplicate from Mr. Subev. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control, Mr. Subev. For the finale of today's parliamentary control and plenary day, we are on a football topic. Alexander Nikolov, Minister of Energy, will answer a question from the MPs Atanas Mihnev, Anton Tonev and Radoslav Vassilev about the decision to suspend the financing of the Professional Football Club by the TPP Maritza East 2 "EAD," the decision to announce the team for sale, the price of the team and the deadlines for the implementation of this decision. Here you go, Mr. Mihnev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u476	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I will take to heart the advice to remove the mask, although it is part of the element of this issue. Finally, on this long day of captivity, first of all, let me reassure you that I am not the new winter addition of PFC. It's okay, the team didn't come to me, it's okay. However, the problems with the future of football in our city and in our area are important to our public and therefore I use the case of parliamentary control to ask Minister Nikolov about things that, anyway, were not answered to the football fans and the public of our city on any other channel during Christmas and New Year's holidays. Dear Minister, your decision on December 23rd that the state funding for Beroe through its owner TPP Maritsa East 2, which is controlled by the Bulgarian Energy Holding, should be interrupted and that the team should be taken out for sale was unexpected for the Old Zagora public. Of course, we are all aware that it is not right for the state to support certain football teams and that there must be a way to have a fair and sustainable financing of football in the country - not only of "Beroe" - but of all teams. That's why the Stara Zagora public united in saving the team, finding a winning formula between fans, veterans, business and so on. The questions we want to answer are a few: first of all, who and how did you decide to stop funding the team? Secondly, a price of 5 million has turned around. And 800 thousand. lv. If someone is interested in the football club, this club will be purchased for 1 BGN. with a commitment, of course, to his future sponsorship and to ensure his future existence? And last but not least, if there is no organization by the date of January 9th, which you yourself have announced, how can we proceed? Can we count another month or two as a temporary period so we can get organized and save our football club? Thank you very much. This is important for us, because when it comes to Old Zagoras, when it comes to..Berohe, as you can see, there are no parties, there are no left, there are no right, there is no mine, there is no yours.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u477	Thank you, Mr. Mihnev. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u478	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Mihnev, Mr. Tonev, Mr. Vassilev! In relation to the questions you have raised regarding the decision to suspend the financing of the Professional Football Club "Beroe" by the TPP Maritza East 2 "EAD," the decision to announce the team for sale and the team price, and the deadlines for implementation I present to you the following information: TPP Maritsa East 2 is the sole owner of the capital of the Professional Football Club It's not the Ministry of Energy again! The professional football club of Beroe, Stara Zagora, has a capital of 5 million. 480,000. lv. and is allocated to the same number of shares, each with voting rights and nominal value 1 BGN. The capital is fully deposited. In line with the government's policy to optimize the costs of state and energy companies, the Board of Directors of the 13 of Protocol No 54 of 15 December 2021: 1. To take the necessary steps to transfer ownership of all available ordinary name shares of 5 million. 480,000. BGN, owned by TPP Maritsa East 2, representing 100% of the capital of the football club based in Stara Zagora after obtaining prior consent from the sole owner of the capital of TPP Maritsa East 2 "EAD," which is the Bulgarian Energy Holding. 2. To publish information in the media about the sale of all its shares after prior consent of the sole owner of the capital. 3. Instructs the Executive Director of the company to request prior consent from the sole owner of the capital, Maritza TPP East 2 and after receiving it, to take action to implement the above decisions. 4. Instructs the Executive Director of the TPP Maritsa East 2 to report to the Executive Director before implementing legal and practical actions to transfer ownership of the shares in advance the agreed terms for transfer of ownership of the shares for final decision by the Board of Directors of the TPP Maritsa East 2 to the EAD. The decision shall be enforceable after obtaining final authorisation from the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Energy Holding under the terms and conditions of art. 20, para. 2, p. 11 of the Statute of TPP Maritsa East 2. In connection with the above and Protocol No 67/021 of 22 December 2021, the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Energy Holding has given prior agreement on the above decisions and has entrusted the Executive Director of the TPP Maritsa East 2 before the implementation of the legal factual actions for transfer of ownership of the shares to report all previously agreed terms of the authorising transaction. In the implementation of the above-mentioned decisions of 23 December on the websites of TPP Maritza East 2, the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency and the regional daily "Sta Zagorski news" was published an advertisement for the sale of the shares of PFC Beroje "Stara Zagora" EAD. I read you the legal justification to understand the structure of management and responsibilities in the specific company, which is the football club. As you can see, the Ministry of Energy is not involved anywhere here. I hope that we are all aware that the periods of unity, unanimous resolution and so on have passed. Let me fill you in on the financial data. In the period of management of the club by the TPP Maritza East 2, the accumulated debts of the club amounted to 53 million. And 395 thousand. BGN, I'll repeat again.. 53 million. And 395 thousand. BGN, from 2011 until now. The financial result of the company, which gives this 53 million, for the same period, has obligations to the Bulgarian energy holding company of 1 billion, 285 million. And 717 thousand. lv. I hope that, in your description, a question of what is right and what is wrong, you can draw your own conclusions. In order to make it very simple, I will tell you that a company with debts accumulated within 10 years, of over 1 billion and 285 million, has given over 50 million. BGN, until the same company manages to cover operating costs, operating costs, maintenance of salary and so on. Fifty-three million leva! In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the TPP Maritsa East 2 employs 2,300 people, the Mini Maritsa East 2 employs 6,900 people. That's 12,000 families. It's just the financial data. If you want extra, I'll give them to you with great pleasure. [[(Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova:]] Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova, for being so considerate about the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u479	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line from Mr. Mihnev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u480	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your information. They, of course, only show and prove again that when we have state enterprises, their governance is not as cost-effective as possible and perhaps the real state property has no place in football. It is precisely because the losses of this company are so colossal, and we know how much a losing enterprise as economists is worth - zero leva, we were provoked to ask the question why the shares are placed at the selling price of the denomination. Here the question is who will be organized, will give a lev and will support in the future this losing enterprise, which represents the Professional Football Club? Of course, we all know that losses are colossal, that reforms are needed to be the football team, essentially a trading company, more efficient. We all know about the losses in the last 10 years, in Maritza East 2, in Mini and TPP, we all know the reason why, but the reason is not in the Chamber. I guess there's a lot of weddings on Friday night, even though we talked that they'd only stay here if there wasn't a funeral or a wedding. Thank you. You have my assurance that the Stara Zagora public is building a consensus on taking the reins of the football club. We hope that it will be sold for one lev to those who really want to think about it, so that Beroe will have it for another 105 years, to take more titles, cups, super bowls of Bulgaria. And since we all know about politics and football, it's Friday night, and I'm finishing my line with, "It's not mine, it's not yours, it's all Beroe!"
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u481	Thank you, Mr. Mihnev. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Nikolov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u482	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Mihnev, the request that it is unnatural for a Bulgarian energy company to own a football team, to finance a football team in colossal losses, I have made it as a deputy minister. Therefore, I think it is very clear to you whether the company has had the opportunity to prepare for this period or not. The sale price is determined by the company, as I read you, in its legal structure. It is unnatural to engage the Bistrisky Tigers with a government plane, followed by similar mentalities for other football teams and so on, and to tolerate similar state spending. Naturally, I have an understanding of this sensitive topic for the city and I am convinced that everyone will understand how immoral it is to support the money of all Bulgarians in order to support a football club of a city, whoever it is. As a minister, I am not ready to meet a line of football clubs, whether from Sofia, Stara Zagora or any Bulgarian city. As a person with respect to sports, I am ready to participate in any initiative that will help find a new owner of the football club faster and easier. As a fan, and to all fans of Stara Zagora, I ask you to address me with a sincere request to you, be careful, remember who put the football club under political dependence. And if these lifeguards are the same people, please be careful from now on. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-07.u483	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. With this we closed the issues to the Minister of Energy Aleksandar Nikolov and with parliamentary control and the agenda as a whole. The next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, 12 January 2022, at 09:00, and the agenda will be further specified. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
