ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Please take your seats and proceed to registration. 169 MPs were registered. There's a quorum. I'm opening today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] The agenda proposed by me for the National Assembly Programme for the period 29 June "1 July 2022" is as follows: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 3. First vote on bills amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and to overcome the consequences. Importers are Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs and the second project Anton Tonev and a group of MPs. 4. Projects of decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importers. "Toshko Yordanov and Victoria Vassileva. 5. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers - Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. 7. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules for the election of the President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. Importer Desislava Atanasova. Election of President of the National Assembly. 8. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The Committee on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption. 9. Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. Resigned by MP Elena Guncheva. 10. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Friday, 1 July 2022 at 9.00 p.m. 11. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Colleagues, I am voting on proposals from the National Assembly's draft programme. Vote 219 MPs: 214, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, there have been several proposals made under art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules to be put to the vote if they are not withdrawn. There has been a request for inclusion in the Programme of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Personal Aid Act. The request was made by Mr. Lyubomir Karimansky. Colleagues, is this request left to be put to the vote? At the request of Mr. Karimanski and with a view to the vote on the budget, the proposal has been withdrawn. A request has been made for inclusion in the weekly Hearing Programme of the Minister of Health on the organisation and readiness to react to the disease virus of monkey smallpox. The request is from the MP Kostadin Angelov and a group of MPs. Colleagues, this request is also withdrawn with the same considerations with a view to adopting the budget. There has been a request from the parliamentary group of the BSP to be included in the weekly Programme Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, and the proposal is to be the second item in the Programme. Colleagues, I put to the vote the request made for the Election Code to be point 2 of the Programme, that is, after the exhaustion of point 1, which is currently a State Budget Bill. Vote 229 MPs: 114 against 112 abstentions 3. The offer is not accepted. Revoting at the request of Mr. Popov of the BSP. Vote 231 MPs: 115 against 115, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Mr. Yordanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask you from now on, when someone comes out to talk about coalitions, to stop them, because who voted with whom just now, colleagues? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u3	Colleagues, there has been a request for inclusion of the same item on the agenda by GERB-SDS, but since the House has already decided there is no way to put this request for a second time to vote. [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Yes, Mrs. Atanasova, but it concerns which place will be included in the weekly Programme, so I should not put it to the vote. Mr. Petrov, you want a procedure regarding the program, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the agenda as item 9, which is purely formal and would take no more than 2 minutes, of course, the most important is the vote on the state budget. That is why I believe that this point is terminated by a Member of the National Assembly, provided that there is an explicit written refusal by the Member of the National Assembly on Monday should be as point 2 of the agenda. This will also be my proposal after the budget with a view to voting for the adoption of this resignation to move the decision of the National Assembly to the CEC so that the next MP can take up his position, because it is also evident to everyone from the last vote that every single vote in the National Assembly becomes extremely important. Mr President, I therefore propose that you put point 9 to the vote to be point 2 after the vote on the state budget, even if it has to stay for tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u5	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Petar Petrov point 9 of the already adopted Agenda Agenda to become item 2. Vote 230 MPs: 74 against 90 abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we move on to item one of the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF BULGARIA FOR 2022 Here you are, Mr. Karimansky, for clearance procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules for Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow representatives of the Ministry of Finance the following persons: Rositsa Velkova
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u7	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Mr. Kostadinov, let me put this to the vote and then I'll give you the floor for a declaration. Colleagues, please vote on the procedural proposal for admission. Vote 197 MPs: 189, against 5, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the Chamber the persons to whom admission has been voted. For a statement Mr. Kostadin Kostadinov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u8	Mr. Chairman! History remembers the actions and omissions of all who ruled our country and the consequences they caused. And while we cannot change the past, we must clearly realize that we are building the future and today we are writing the new Bulgarian history. In the past days, the forty-seventh National Assembly has recorded in history with betrayal the Bulgarians in Macedonia under pressure from outside forces and betraying our national interests in the name of this pressure. We have fallen into a humiliating situation, one of the co-chairs of a parliamentary group "Democratic Bulgaria" to call the French ambassador to ask if we will be able to meet the orders in time so that we, a member of the European Union, can please Northern Macedonia, which is not yet. In the Bulgarian people has not yet passed the bitterness of betrayal and comes the next insane decision, this time it is sole taken by the Prime Minister in resignation. Yesterday Kiril Petkov decided to expel 70 Russian diplomats from Bulgaria [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] , however, according to the official information of the Ministry of Interior, with a total of 40 available, which means that according to Kiril Petkov most likely also the secretaries, cooks, cleaners and drivers in the embassy are diplomats. For this whim he has no decision of the Council of Ministers, no decision of the Coalition Council. Moreover, his idea was not even discussed with them and was taken in the absence of the Foreign Minister in resignation Teodora Genchovska. The Prime Minister's actions are a harsh violation of the Constitution, for which he bears personal responsibility. And if we were a rule of law, with an independent prosecutor acting today, he would be in charge of asking for the Prime Minister to be placed under an obstacle. I don't know if you realize that Kiril Petkov is dangerous to Bulgaria. Apparently, obsessed with an obsession with power, he is willing to do anything to stay in the position he still is. His likely desire to please his American masters who gathered their vassals in Madrid yesterday at a meeting gives him hope that they will allow him to get a second chance to head the state, but this leads to irreparable damage for all Bulgarians. This damage Cyril Petkov inflicts on one person and recklessly. The mass expulsion of diplomats of a particular country, which has been unprecedented in the history of the Bulgarian state since 1878 and the closure of consulates in both countries, has had a strong impact on the relations between these countries. It is a sign of extremely degraded relations and is the last measure before the most extreme such... the start of war. The retired Prime Minister Kiril Petkov urgently needs to be placed under suspension and a certification procedure is under way, otherwise we risk his government not only being the most harmful so far, but also taking action to bring us to the edge of a war that is not ours. Today, the prime minister of resignation is not just a national traitor serving foreign interests as a particularly dangerous national traitor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u9	Mr. Kostadinov, after all the qualifications... I'm asking you to refrain.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u10	With his actions, he threatens national security, which is already shaken by a series of stunt crises. Unfortunately, today the person who rules the state is becoming more and more like a random passerby who steps in power without even knowing what that is or is interested in the interests of Bulgaria. Finally, since the motivation of eviction was that everyone who protects foreign interests must leave the country something with which we from the AGE are absolutely in agreement, we ask the following question: when will Kiril Petkov and the MPs, who last week voted betrayal of Bulgaria's national interests for Macedonia, leave the country? Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u11	For procedure? For a personal explanation Mr. Hristo Ivanov, then for a procedure Mr. Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My personal explanation is this: the decision we are talking about has not been made sole. I have information that it was discussed on 18 May the application of the principle of proportionality in relation to the composition of diplomatic missions. Moreover, it is politically supported by the Democratic Bulgaria. We have been pushing for this decision for a very long time. From this point of view, it is also discussed in the Coalition Council and enjoys our persistent support. We believe that this decision was delayed, but correct. In this sense, if someone needs to be placed under an obstacle, these are representatives of the ARRANGEMENT. Thank you. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u13	Mr. Ivanov, a remark to you about the insults to colleagues - unofficially. I do not impose punishment on you, but I appeal to you to refrain from this type of qualifications. Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. During the declaration, Bulgarian state institutions were once again offended. I don't understand why Mr. Kostadinov calls President Radev a vassal of the Americans who was called to Madrid? There were also members of the Council of Ministers. So, please make a remark to him, as our Rules explicitly state that insults to the institutions that are the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and so on should not be made from this tribune. And this speech may have been written by Mrs. Zaharova, I don't know? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Are you here for procedure, Mrs. Mihaylova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. Once again, through procedural grasps you allow comments on a declaration in violation of the Rules of Procedure. We at Resurrection believe that you should have learned a lesson after the removal of a President of the National Assembly [[(Repeatations from.. Continue ……]] that the violation of the Rules will not be tolerated by any of the other groups, except yours, by the Continued Change.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u17	Mrs. Mihailova, I just want to read you a text from the Staff Regulations to see whether or not I respect it in this context: Art. 159. (1) The President may suspend for more than one meeting, but not more than three meetings, a Member of the National Assembly, who shall: 1. insults the National Assembly, the members of the Council of Ministers, the President or Vice-President of the Republic or other bodies of government; If you insist on strictly following the rules, should I remove Mr. Kostadinov for more than one meeting today? [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Do I have to remove him because he once again called insults to the Prime Minister? [[Breeding lines.]] Okay, I'll make a remark to Mr. Ananiev. Do you want me to punish the two MPs? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u18	That was an insult.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u19	What was the insult? Shall we read the transcript, Mr. Kostadinov? [[Noise and lines.]] For the procedure Mr. Gochev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u20	Mr. Chairman, you're all about the procedure because you asked the question. Yes, I think you should impose the punishment you have read on Mr. Kostadinov for this horrifying insulting statement to all institutions in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u21	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. Colleagues, I suggest we move on to the budget. Mr. Karimansky, are you ready for the report? You're welcome to introduce us to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u22	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 is amended and supplemented by the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law. I have one suggestion before we go to art. 1. Colleagues, I suggest so that it can be objectified art. 1 and to walk tight enough today, to first pass tax laws from § 18 onwards, which are on page 64, to see what is accepted and then return to art. 1. I think this is a better approach so we can accept then all the other numbers that are in art. 1 and the other members. If you want to put it to a vote, or you decide whether to approach it that way.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u23	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Does any of my fellow Members wish to express an opinion from the Budget Committee on whether this proposal is acceptable, reasonable or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u24	Yeah, that's acceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u25	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u26	Mr. Chairman, as far as art. 1 includes the revenue part of the budget, which depends directly on tax laws, I think that it is appropriate to examine tax laws and then move on to art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u27	Okay, guys, I'm still going to put it to the vote to decide whether or not we should proceed this way. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Karimanski to vote first on the texts of paragraph which to which, Mr. Karimanski? Just a moment for Mr. Karimansky to clarify the lyrics. [[The explanations between the rapporteur Lyubomir Karimanski and President Miroslav Ivanov.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a procedural proposal made by Mr. Lyubomir Karimanski, which is expressed in the following: to put to the vote, first, paragraphs 18 to 31, including by importer and then to return to § 1 and the following by importer, with the opinion expressed by Mr. Asen Vassilev that such an approach is indeed acceptable and appropriate. Please, voting mode. Vote 189 MPs: 189, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Karimansky, please introduce us to the Report of § 18, which is on page 64.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, we are on page 64 so that we can closely monitor what we are voting on. Paragraph 18. Proposal of the MP Martin Dimitrov, Georgi Ganev, Lyubomir Karimanski, Iskren Mitev, Yavor Bojankov and Alexander Rakshiev, No 47-254-04-205. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Ganev, made according to the order art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Plamen Abrovski and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. It's this. Paragraph 18 on the Value Added Tax Act makes the following amendments and additions: I. Point 4 is amended as follows: Article 2 is created. 66a: reduced and zero tax rate. Art. 66a (1) The rate of tax shall be 9% for accommodation provided in hotels and similar establishments, including the provision of holiday accommodation and renting of places for camping sites or caravans. (2) The rate of the tax shall be zero per cent for flour. II. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 concerning the establishment of § 15e in the Transitional and Final Provisions, the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. A new para is being created. 4. (4) The rate by art. 66a, para. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 2. Previously on AMC's... 4 and 5 become respectively. 5 and 6. 3. The creation of para. 7. (7) For the purposes of art. 66a, para. 2 is a product obtained from the grinding of wheat bread and is suitable for the production of bread and bread products. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Plamen Abrovski and a group of MPs: In § 18 concerning the Law on Value Added Tax (promised, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: I. Point 4 is amended as follows: "4." Article 3 is replaced by the following: 66a: "Reduced tax rate' Art. 66a. The rate of tax is 9 percent for: 1. accommodation provided in hotels and similar establishments, including the provision of holiday accommodation and renting of places for camping sites or caravans; 2. fruits and vegetables; 3. sunflower oil. II. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 concerning the establishment of § 15e in the Transitional and Final Provisions, the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." A new para is being created. 4. (4) The rate by art. 66a, t. 2 and 3 shall apply from 1 July 2022 until 1 July 2023. 2. Previously on AMC's... 4 and 5 become respectively. 5 and 6........................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn in Chapters 2, 3, 4, 11, 16 and 20 and Chapter 1 and Chapter 7 and 8 has not been withdrawn, so the Commission does not support the proposal and I will now read it to you: A new § is being created... In the Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG No. ) : 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66, para. A new point 8 shall be created with the following text: It's 8 o'clock. Foods as referred to in Annex 5. 2. A new Annex 5 shall be set up in the Final Provisions. Annex 5 to art. 66, para. 2, p. The table shall contain Chapter 1 of Chapter 7 and Chapter 8 of Chapter 8 respectively. Proposal of the MP Iskren Mitev and a group of MPs. In § 18 of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, as regards the Law on Value Added Tax, a new item is created. 3 as follows: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 46 is created t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. the management of alternative investment funds designated as special investment funds in accordance with the criteria established by European Union law. The numbering of the following points in § 18 of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, is amended accordingly. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Iskren Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In § 1 of the additional provisions: (b) The creation of a t. 104: It's 104. Criteria established by European Union law within the meaning of art. 46, para. 1, t. 8 are the criteria laid down in judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the application of art. Council Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Nikolina Angelkova and Kiril Ananiev. In § 18, t. 7, § 15e, para. 1, t. 2 of the transitional and final provisions shall be amended as follows: In the case of aid granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid granted by a Member State shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1), t. 2. Restaurant and catering services, which consist of delivery of prepared or prepared food, including delivery of food for the This shall also apply to restaurant and catering services which consist of the supply of beer, wine and spirits, including in cases under art. 128....................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Venice Ognyanova Netzova-Angova and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-249. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 21: § 21. In the Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, (a) point (e) is amended as follows: , (e) the operator of the food bank before the donation has electronically provided the National Revenue Agency with the required information, which as content and file format is determined by order of the Executive Director of the Agency; (b) in point (c) in point (g), the words: (e) there are no tax, social security or other public obligations and no criminal order of infringement of art entered into force in the last two years. 180, 180a, 181, 182 and 185s shall be replaced by.. there are no public obligations subject to enforcement at the end of the month in which the goods are made available and the obligations are not reflected in his tax account or are not reflected as claims for enforcement in the National Revenue Agency;............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. The name of Chapter 3 shall be amended as follows: "Freedom with the right to deduct a tax credit'. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36a, para. 3 words.............................................................................. 66, para. 1, t. the following point is inserted after point (c) of 4. Article 66 is amended as follows: Standard rate of tax. Art. 66. (1) The standard rate of tax shall be 20 per cent for taxable supplies with a place of execution on the territory of the country, other than those specifically referred to as taxable at a reduced or zero rate of tax. (2) The rate by para. 1 shall apply both to imports of goods within the territory of the country and to taxable intra-Community acquisitions within the territory of the country, other than those specifically referred to as being subject to a reduced or zero rate of tax. 5. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 66a: "Reduced rate of tax. Art. 66a. The rate of tax is 9 per cent for the delivery of a accommodation service provided in hotels and similar establishments, including the provision of holiday accommodation and renting of places for camping sites or caravans, with a place of execution on the territory of the country. 6. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 66b: "Freedom with the right to deduct tax credit through the application of zero tax rates Art. 66b. Zero rate of tax shall apply when making deliveries with a place of execution on the territory of the country referred to in Chapter Three, Art. 53, 64a, 140 146 and 173. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151a, para. 2, p. 11 words under Chapter Three shall be deleted. 8. In § 1 of the additional provisions, point (c) is replaced by the following: 100 and 101 are canceled. 9. Paragraph 15e shall be inserted in the transitional and final provisions: ................................................................................... (1) The rate of the tax referred to in art. 66a shall apply until 31 December 2022 to the following supplies with a place of execution on the territory of the country, on imports of goods within the territory of the country and on taxable intra-Community acquisitions of goods: 1. delivery of books to physical media or carried out by electronic means or both (including textbooks, cognitive books and study sets, children's books with illustrations for drawing or coloring, printed or handwritten notes), other than publications which are wholly or principally intended for advertising, and other than publications which are wholly or principally composed of video content or audio musical content; 2. supply of restaurant and catering services, which consist of the supply of prepared or unprepared food, including consisting of the delivery of food for home; this shall not apply to restaurant and catering services, which consist of the supply of beer, wine and spirits, including in the cases under art. 128; 3. supplies of foods suitable for infants or young children as referred to in Annex No 4; 4. supplies of baby diapers and similar baby hygiene articles as specified in Annex 4; 5. supply of a common tourist service in cases under art. 136 as well as excursions organised by tourist operators and travel agents with occasional bus transport of passengers; 6. delivery of a service for the use of sports facilities. (2) The rate of the tax under art. 66a shall apply until 1 July 2023 to the following supplies with a place of execution on the territory of the country, on imports of goods within the territory of the country and on taxable intra-Community acquisitions of goods: 1. delivery of central heating; 2. supply of natural gas. (3) The rate of the tax under art. 66b shall apply until 1 July 2023 for the supply of bread with a place of execution on the territory of the country, on imports of goods within the territory of the country and on taxable intra-Community acquisitions of goods. (4) For the purposes of para. 1, t. 2 and 5. 1. Pacing is a beer within the meaning of art. 5 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses; 2. Wine is wine within the meaning of the Wine and Spirit Drinks Act; 3. "Spirit drinks" shall be drinks for the purposes of art. 121, para. 3 of the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks; 4. A bus service is a transport within the meaning of § 1, point (a) and (b) of Article 2 (1). 24 of the additional provisions of the Road Transport Act. (5) For the purposes of para. The product obtained from the baking of dough obtained from the mixing of wheat flour or other cereal, either alone or in combination, and water, with or without the addition of salt, with the aid of yeast or yeast, and technological additives (if necessary). (6) A person who carries out a supply/sale of natural gas by means of a liquid fuel consumption measurement shall be obliged to register in the electronic system with fiscal memory each delivery/sale of natural gas in the tax group "D" for the time of application of the rate under art. 66a. In this case, data shall not be submitted to the National Revenue Agency for the type and quantity of fuel sold. These sales are allowed to be programmed in a separate department. (7) Where the tax event of delivery to which para. 2 and 3 occurred until the entry into force of para. 2 and 3 including the tax document for delivery shall be issued after the entry into force of para. 2 and 3, delivery shall be documented by issuing an invoice under Article 3. 113 at the issue of which the tax regime applies at the date of occurrence of the tax event of delivery. (8) When after the entry into force of para. 2 and 3 grounds arise for amending the tax base of supply to which para. 2 and 3 and which is actually carried out and documented until the entry into force of para. 2 and 3, the amendment of the tax base shall be made by issuing a tax notice under Art. 3. 115 by applying the tax regime in force at the date of occurrence of the tax event of the delivered and documented supply. 10. In § 4 of the final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG No. No. 55 of 2020, Dop., No. 111 of 2021) The words "al." 2, p. 2, 3, 4 and 5, § 2, t. 2 and § 3' are replaced by "al'. 2, p. 2, 3, 4 and 5 and § 2, t. The text of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the text in the Icelandic and Norwegian languages, to be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union, and in the Icelandic and Norwegian languages, to be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 11. In § 70 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG No. (c) the words "in" shall be replaced by "in" and "in" shall be replaced by "in" and "in" shall be replaced by "in" and "in" shall be replaced by "in" and "in" shall be replaced by "in" and "in" shall be replaced by "in" and "in" shall be replaced by "in" and "in" shall be replaced by "in" and "in" shall be replaced by "in." 12. In Annex No 4, the words "to art. 66, para. 2, p. 4 and 5 and 5 shall be replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u29	Thank you, Mr. Karimanski. Let's stop with § 18. I'm opening the discussion on § 18. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with a good example and with a situation in which Parliament, regardless of political bias, regardless of the general tension, unanimously makes a key reform for which we have been waiting for six years. Colleagues, it's about the food donation. In 2016, we released the donation from foods that are still on expiry date from VAT. Then, unfortunately, at the insistence of Finance Minister Goranov, a marking was introduced, which showed that it made food donations difficult, and they began to decrease every year compared to the previous one. In other words, traders and producers continued to have the incentive to destroy and not to donate these foods. In a situation of high inflation, in a situation where many people in Bulgaria are in need, a situation of difficulties, this is a good noble, Christian work that we will take together today, introducing two key things - we replace the marking with electronic tracking and, secondly, we increase the threshold of donations from 0.5 to 1%. A number of consultations were held, representatives of different parliamentary groups took part in the process. The entire Budget Committee unanimously supported this proposal, which gives us reason to believe that food will stop being destroyed when they are in expiration date and will be donated. Because, colleagues, private donations can be a key complement to state social policy and at times can even be more important than state one. In countries such as France, Britain, Germany, private donations of food that are still in shelf life are a very important part of the common social policy. So I really congratulate all the members of the Budget Committee that together constructively and responsibly we have stood behind this idea. It is edited and supplemented by the Ministry of Finance, for which I also thank them, and this is something that we actually, colleagues, have waited six long years for. For six long years, we didn't have an answer to the question. Why not remove the last obstacles so that these foods go to the hungry and not to be destroyed? Why didn't you do that thing? So we are starting the budget update with an extremely key reform, and it unanimously supported by the entire Budget Committee, which is a good start, a good start. Because with such measures there will be no hungry people in Bulgaria. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u31	And thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Colleagues, are there any lines to this statement? I won't. Any other statements on her name under § 18? Mr. Abrovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! In § 18 I have made two proposals, along with a group of MPs, I will make a statement. My two proposals concern, firstly, a reduction in the VAT rate of flour to 0%. You know that we support the proposed reduction of 0% VAT on bread, but keep in mind that in Bulgaria bread is produced by two types of producers. One is extremely large, which very rarely sells to the end user, and the other is very small and only sells to the end user. There is no logic in reducing the VAT to 0% of these producers only for the final product, without helping them with the raw material, namely flour. It makes no sense that we should not support 0% VAT on flour, provided that this is one of the products, which, like bread, is one of the most consumed goods used by the Bulgarian people, which we are currently working for. I would like to ask you to support the proposal - in addition to 0% VAT on bread - to have 0% VAT on flour. My second proposal concerns a 9% reduction in VAT for fruits, vegetables and oil. Note that there is no more gray sector, a legal gray sector in Bulgaria than the fruit and vegetables sector. I have spoken a lot about this subject, I will not take up your time on fruit and vegetables, but I would also like to call on you to support it, as well as to support the reduction of 9% of VAT on oil, because, like the reduction of VAT on bread, this is also an extremely social and effective function in times of crisis and can be considered for an anti-inflation measure. I hope not only myself, but all our constituents also hope that you will support these two proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u33	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, most of you may know that the first bill concerning the reduced VAT rate for goods and foodstuffs from the small consumer basket has been submitted by us, since the rebirth, as early as January. This bill then provoked many negative comments and opinions from both the representatives of the Budget Committee and the majority managing then and from the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. There were also comments of the type: "Now that the VAT on white salami cheese became 0%, then all the cheese in the chains will become white salami. " There was also an opinion from the representatives of the Ministry of Finance that reducing VAT on certain basic consumer goods, such as fruits, vegetables and oil, would open a huge hole in the budget. And that without being presented any analysis by the same ministry. Some representatives of the Budget Commission argued that the reduction in tax rates did not affect the profit of the producer and the price of the final customer. Here is the time to remind you that the majority of producers trade their own production, so accepting this proposal will positively affect them, who are obliged to work for their survival in the difficult months of management of the quadruple coalition. When we introduced such a bill, it was asking for 0% of food products from the nomenclature of the small consumer basket. At that time, all of you, representatives of the Euro-Atlantic community in this National Assembly, claimed that within the European Union there was no way to be below 9%. If our national interest requires it to be 0% and that depends on us, then it will be as much as our national interest requires, regardless of whether there is a Euro-Atlantic consensus. So we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u35	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Guys, are there any other lines? I can't see. Mr. Abrovsky, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have been very unable to understand the meaning of this line, but I will use the opportunity of the duplicate, colleagues, to ask you again to support 0% of flour for Bulgarian citizens and 9% of VAT for fruits and vegetables and oil for the same Bulgarian citizens for whom we all want to use more natively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u37	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Guys, are there any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u38	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My proposal is to keep the rate of 9% for the restaurant sector both in terms of delivery for food for the home and in terms of wine, beer and, respectively, all spirits included in art. 128 of the Value Added Tax Act. The purpose of this proposal is to actually preserve the proposal of 21 December 2021, when everyone here in this Chamber supported the amendments to the VAT Act, so that this anti-crisis measure in relation to the sector "Tourism" applies until the end of 2022. We all know how affected the sector is both by the CoVID-19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine. This anti-crisis measure, which 2020 has been adopted in a package with all the other anti-crisis measures that have supported the sector "Tourism" and both working capital and 60:40 and 80:20, proves its action, as it supports the sector "Restaurantry" and basically allows people who are low-qualified. Apart from that, with the introduction of this measure in 2020, the minimum social security threshold for the sector was increased to BGN 800. For comparison for the other sectors in 2020 was BGN 610 and 2021. six hundred and fifty-fifty BGN. It is also apparent that there is a kind of reciprocity in terms of reducing the rate of 9% for VAT and thus increasing the minimum insurance threshold for the sector. Apart from that, according to data from the World Tourism Organisation and the World Travel and Tourism Council, a restoration of the tourism sector is expected, according to 2019 levels, to occur 2023, 2024. I recall that before the CoVID-19 pandemic began in 2019, we had over 9 million. Three hundred thousand. foreign tourists. I'm only talking about foreign tourists. For 2021, foreign tourists were over 2 million, and for 2022, according to the data available at the moment, foreign tourists are expected to be no more than 4 I'm only talking about foreign tourists. For 2019 we had more than 27 million overnights and the tourist sector contributed between 12 and 14% of the country's gross domestic product. I believe that it is extremely important to support the recovery of the sector, to preserve the operation of this measure, as voted on 21 December 2021 by the same Forty-Seventh National Assembly and to continue its action in full until 31 December 2022. I believe that this will continue to support the tourism sector and this will lead to faster recovery and reaching the 2019 levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Are there any lines, coworkers? Here you are, Professor Gechev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u40	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Angelkova, I would like to congratulate you because you should have done so as a former Minister of Tourism who knows the industry. It is quite natural and in your place everyone should defend their business with the relevant arguments that you have put forward, but we will not support it. And we did not support it in the Commission for two reasons. One is the budget losses because, just as the individual sectors are in a difficult situation, so we must be careful with budget revenues and expenditures, but there is also a moral side that I have expressed on behalf of the BSP when this discount was introduced. In our view, it is not moral, however, when our proposals to reduce VAT on medicines, goods for children and goods of primary need are not accepted, we are to reduce VAT precisely on spirits, wine and beer. I understand that this has an effect on tourism, but when compared to economic and moral indicators, I think it is not acceptable to stimulate the use of alcohol for any reason to explain it, but to leave the VAT to 20% for the medicines for which the elderly in Bulgaria with critically low pensions count their pennies to buy medicines. For this reason, I welcome the protection of the industry on your part, but we cannot support it for the reasons I have told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u41	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there any other lines, colleagues? I won't. You have the floor for the coat, Mrs. Angelkova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Gechev, thank you for the line. Yes, it is, I am obliged to protect the tourism sector not only as a former Minister of Tourism, but because it is, as I said, one of the most affected sectors of the CoVID-19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine. Unfortunately, what we see is that the going government has done nothing for this sector. The reduced VAT rate of 9% was proposed to apply until 31 December 2022. In my speech, I pointed out that the minimum insurance threshold for the sectors of restaurant and hotels increased in 2022 when this measure was introduced at BGN 800, so there will be, figuratively speaking, a gap in the budget. I really rely on your support and on each of you, because it is extremely important that the sector of tourism is able to recover as quickly as possible and thus, of course, will also increase the revenue from this sector in the budget. Thank you for your attention and I count on your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. To speak, Mrs. Taneva, would you like to speak? Colleagues, I'm just asking you to clear the aisle a little bit. Mr. Dobrev, Mr. Sabrutev, make some room because Mrs. Taneva has nowhere to go. Here you are, Mrs. Taneva. There are many peripets in front of the MPs until they reach the stand, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance! I am making this statement, which is why I want to protect this proposal. [[Deputy Prime Minister Assen Vassilev leaves plenary]] which I entered, in terms of... Mr. Vassilev, I would love for you to stay in the Chamber until I speak, because the topics concern your portfolios and you can help with that. Otherwise, my statement becomes meaningless if you are not present, but it is your will. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] Don't yell at me from the gym, because I can't hear what you're saying. I am doing this to protect the proposal that has been made by a group of MPs. In efforts to reach consensus during the meeting of the Budget Committee, we withdrew one part of the proposal and left the demand for 9% of live animals, vegetables and fruits. Why, honourable Members, do I urge you to accept it? Firstly, we are the only country that has not taken measures to support local producers in this direction. Secondly, if it is adopted from 1 July, I can propose, and I therefore asked Mr. Vassilev to thank you for staying, even if it is temporary, we will be able to do an analysis of what this measure will lead to. The producers in these sectors are virtually underfunded and vulnerable, but around 70% of this production is from operators who have VAT registration and in practice this is directly in their favour. For living animals, the cost of the budget will be even less minimal. Living animals are traded only local production, and large farms there, which are registered under VAT, are of much smaller volume. But this in this current situation will give real support to these sectors, first. Secondly, the chance of brightening the sector in terms of employment is a very sensitive problem in these sectors. I ask for understanding and again I say: if there is the will of the ruling majority, even if we do it with a deadline, but try to do it. We are halfway through the year and in the budget this will definitely not reflect. Fuel appreciation has made it possible for fresh fruits and vegetables that are already harvested in the country, the markets that were in neighbouring countries, which gave an option for a higher price, are virtually gone now, which further lowered the price. The cherries are at an end, and you have probably familiarized yourself with all the information some remained uncharted, there is a lower price than last year with one lev. Calculate VAT from this and in practice the income will remain mainly for the payment of labour. We shouldn't allow it, and I think it's the least we could do. And with regard to control, I would like to draw attention to the following: if we are involved here in what damage to the budget this will be, dear Mr. Vassilev, after the Commission's communication of 12 May on ensuring the blue corridors of solidarity, I do not know what is our coordination point of contact with these blue corridors, but intensively in the last month is traveling grain along the blue corridors of solidarity. It is said that it is from Ukraine and has no phytosanitary control, there is no control of the origin of this grain, any kind, but the most sunflower. All I'm saying is that, according to information from farmers from neighbouring Romania, this is happening through their territory with an escort from their entry to Bulgaria, entering a land border through barges and wagons. It's war, people are running away. There is information that the grain truck is also available. We are not talking about documents, but about the origin of the grain at all. Only control of this corridor of solidarity is free trade, but putting it in the legal form of documents would provide what would be a damage to the budget with these 9%. I will conclude, honourable Members, I ask for your support. Again, we are still in a debate and I voted well to start with tax laws. When it ends this year, we can do an analysis of this and you will see that the effect is only positive. And a third subject I'd like to address. This morning we were greeted by protesters from the systems and from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and BABBH. We've offered 8 million. lv. an indexation of their income, but in this part the proposal is not supported. I ask that it be supported because those who work on the ground in the district structures are already dramatically behind their salaries and the duties are increasing. I conclude by saying that what I have said before me by my colleagues about flour is absolutely true. The zero rate of bread combined with 20% of flour kills small bakeries who are crafty and have no VAT registration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. For a replica.. Iskren Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Taneva, I think everyone is aware of the need to help people who are most affected by inflation. You told me about the problem of unfamiliar fruits and vegetables, and so on. Of course, yes, we've tried. I just want to remind you of something. Thanks to the golden finger of the rebirth you scored GERB, with the help of rebirth you scored 760 million more, trying to break the budget. And now, Mrs. Taneva, I want to address a very specific suggestion you made from the stands. You said that this measure you are proposing has little impact on the budget. Mrs. Taneva, I'm sorry, but you're obviously not familiar enough. The assessment of only part of your measurements is 350 million, and if we bring in the living animals, we're going over 500 million. Therefore, I would like to express my gratitude to Mr. Ananiev, who has shown reason and withdrew this measure, which cannot be implemented, Mrs. Taneva. At the moment you come to the stands, we understand the problems you address, we also sympathize, and we want to help these people. Go out and tell me after we've loaded the budget of 760 million. lv. additionally, now you're saying add another 500 million. Tell us where, talk to Mr. Ananiev, he's a professional, to give you advice, and tell us where to get 500 million to fulfill this measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u47	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Ms. Taneva, I am very impressed with your concern for the sector, but I would like to remind you of some things that have become known to the Commission, I do not know why we are now not telling them. First, the producers of fruits and vegetables in Bulgaria for the most part are not registered according to VAT. Secondly, producers are already reaching markets as they do not charge VAT on the production they sell. I personally have the impression that what you are proposing is a measure that must continue the tendency to defend clearly and precisely the importers, which are several in Bulgaria. You have done this very successfully over the years in which you have ruled, so let us be fully correct and tell each other things as they are. I am asking you, most likely, in the duplicate, to be clear enough and as a former minister to say how many producers of fruits and vegetables in Bulgaria are registered under VAT and do you deny the fact that by going out on the market and selling their products, they charge VAT because it is a complete lie if you claim it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u49	And thank you, Mr. Marinov. Is there a third line, colleagues? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u50	First, I will respond to my colleague from.. We continue the Change.... with regard to the line you made me. It wasn't about 500 million. BGN, a colleague, that is why Mr. Ananiev withdrew it, and I said that we withdraw separate chapters and leave only Live animals, fruits and vegetables and this is not a question of 500 million. That's what you're quoting. Your initial assessment is for the original proposal for absolutely all foods, so here we should make this clarification. It's about living animals, hardly a few million even. As for another question to myself from the line of "We continue the Change" I do not understand, I am going to the second colleague, who is from BSP. It's normal to defend the budget, only in fact you're not quite right. I can quote you, and I quoted in my statement, a reference to the fruits..335 thousand acres of the data in 2020.............................................................................................. Those who do not have VAT registration, yes, they are many in number four-five-six thousand of all 9000 farmers, but they give and grow only 15% of these areas, i.e. the volume of local production that comes on the market, is of fewer but registered under VAT farmers. This will also lead to the lightening of the sector, in practice and to the brightening of employment. The adjusted proposal I can provide to you, Mr. Ivanov, because I have written it, I didn't get my list, it means that we, in practice, especially with the inflation in force, will not damage the budget, but it will give us the opportunity. This is a measure that is applied absolutely everywhere in the Member States, but there in most of them is a temporary one, those who held our VAT rate will give us an opportunity to analyze the effect on and the employment of the labour force, which everyone who is in the sector knows is in its grey part.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Mr. Bikov to speak, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would rather inform both the House and the people of culture, particularly in the performing arts, that we are facing an extremely serious problem with this budget update. First of all, you know that during the Kovid crisis there was a measure that supported public cultural institutes, stage arts in terms of wages, because there was no audience in the halls and there was no way in the system under which they received funding, they could be financed because they were financed by a ticket. This measure has been voted on to continue this year. Now this money, which is for this compensation, has been transferred to the Fund for Projects, which basically means that the performing arts in Bulgaria after 1 July will start to be financed on the principle under which they were financed before the Kovid crisis, which is not good. It's not good, because, first of all, people haven't returned fully to the theater halls and the operas. Secondly, keep in mind that for one year now, the theatres, operas, philharmonics have been failing because of the high price of electricity. They pay industrial electricity, but they pay it at much higher prices than businesses because they are small and no one wants to enter into a contract with them, to make a public procurement and so on. They buy the most expensive electricity at seven o'clock in the evening until nine, and now they're taking away that help, and that's a huge problem. Bear in mind that the Ministry of Culture has already distributed this money on a project basis, as they recorded it, since September we will see, we will witness the bankruptcy of theatres, operas and Philharmonics. And here, against the backdrop of promises of 1% for culture, flowers and roses, and any arrangement at the mall, this is absolute cynicism that happened during the preparation of this budget. I also want the Minister of Culture to come here because we're going to try to fix it somehow, but we can't fix it in general. He must make a commitment that this money will continue to go to support the performing arts.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u53	Mr. Bikov, I'm sorry, but we're a little off the point we're discussing here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u54	Well, we're discussing the paragraph...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u55	We are commenting on VAT rates.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u56	Is it not art. One, excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u57	No, § 18. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u58	Okay. The problem is so big that in this paragraph I will end... [[Laughter]] No, it's not funny, guys, it's scary because it's extremely serious. You are about to fail the cultural infrastructure of Bulgaria. That's what you saw in the budget update.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u59	Thank you, Mr. Bikov, for that statement. It really was an important issue, so I took the liberty of interrupting you just for the third minute. Colleagues, are there any lines to this statement? We have to finish the procedure. I won't. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? By the title and by the title of §18? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, first of all, I will put to the vote the name of the Bill and then we will move on to § 18 and the proposals to it. I put to the vote the name of the imported bill, which is by importer. They voted 225 MPs: 223 against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We move on to § 18 and I will put to the vote first the proposals not supported by the Commission. First of all, I put the proposal of the MPs Plamen Abrovski, Momchil Ivanov, Zlatomira Karageorgieva-Mostrova and Lyubomir Kariminski, which is a signature ending in 207, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 226 MPs: for 85, against 102, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. It's a rethink mode. We're revoting, colleagues. Vote 230 MPs: 116, against 103, abstention 11. That's how the offer is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Plamen Abrovski, Momchil Ivanov, Iva Miteva, Zlatomira Karageorgieva-Mostrova and Lyubomir Kariminski, which has a signature ending at 208. Vote 228 MPs: 108 against 104, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. There's a request for a re-vote. We're revoting, colleagues. We are rethinking the proposal of Mr. Plamen Abrovski, Momchil Ivanov, Iva Miteva, Zlatomira Karageorgieva-Mostrova and Lyubomir Kariminski, which is with a signature ending at 208 and which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 235 MPs: 109, against 105, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Desislava Taneva, Maria Belova and Irena Dimova, which is with a signature ending at 247 and is on page. 69 in the part where it has not been withdrawn by the Members who made the proposal and which is not supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Vote 226 MPs: 96, against 121, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Iskren Mitev, Venko Sabrutev, Michal Kambarev, Gergana Daneva and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u60	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u61	Colleagues, there is a request for a re-vote of the proposed proposal of Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Maria Belova and Irena Dimova, so we are now re-voting the proposal of colleagues from GERB-SDSS, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 225 MPs: 96, against 120, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the MPs Iskren Mitev, Rumen Gechev, Vladislav Panev and a group of MPs, which is with a signature ending at 215 and which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 183 MPs: 107 against 72, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u62	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u63	We're revoting, colleagues. Vote 233 MPs: 112 against 121, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Iskren Mitev, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which is not supported by the Commission, on p. 71. Vote 232 MPs: 112, against 117, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. [[Heckling]] We're revoting, colleagues. Please, voting mode. Vote 232 MPs: 113, against 115, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of MPs Nikolina Angelkova and Kiril Ananiev with a signature 241, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 227 MPs: 103 against 115 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. [[Heckling]] We're revoting, colleagues. Vote 232 MPs: for 103, against 115, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Tsoneva, if you want, do the procedure as you requested just now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u64	Dear colleagues, I'm doing a procedure. I have a request to re-vote the proposal, which ends at 207, because I have wrongly marked my vote and I ask you to re-vote. [[(Loud noise. Replies from GERB-SDS and "There is such a people."]] I'm just saying my vote is against it, and I'm pressin' for it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva, but the Rules do not allow me to put this to the vote once again. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Ms. Tsoneva's procedure is not really about re-voting, because we really can't re-vote, but her vote, in which a technical error has been made... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u67	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u68	...and should be considered a vote against. This must certainly, in so far as it changes the vote and the result, be taken into account. There is no way to accept the technical device in front of the public's stated will of a Member of the National Assembly in the Chamber of the Tribune. I've been in a similar situation myself. This is a completely legitimate procedure after the stand clearly states what is the vote of the MP. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] It is a vote publicly claimed by a Member of the National Assembly, and it cannot be ignored. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] It just needs to be reflected in the vote on the text. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, the vote is not secret, the vote is public, and when a Member of the National Assembly says here from the stand how he voted, what his will is, this vote must be respected. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u69	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Yordanov, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u70	Mr. Chairman, take out the transcript. Mrs. Tsoneva said she was wrong when she voted, not that the machine was wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u71	Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, there is no way we can produce serious policy here in this Chamber. It is the will of the people's representative that is important, not any different craftsmanship. From this point of view, Mr. Chairman, my request is that you reflect the will of the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva on that vote, which we have already done twice, because she has publicly and clearly expressed her will from this tribune. Otherwise, alternative forms of technical or any other craftsmanship to reflect what we want or like as the will of the people's representative, and to impose something against his will I would not accept. So it would be good to reflect the will of the people's representative. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u73	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Here the question is what is really the will of Mrs Tsoneva in her vote. This should be decided today... whether she actually voted for, or voted against, and procedures...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u74	I said how she voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u75	Hold on, hold on. And whether its vote is really reflected correctly and correctly reflects the decision that has been taken. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u76	The technique is only an aid to reflect the will of the people's representative.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u77	Mr. Karadaye, we were in the same hypothesis a few days ago when Mr. Atalay voted against the vote of no confidence. Let's not forget this moment. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Mr. Chairman! You may not understand Mr. Karadayi, who said that the will of the Members of the National Assembly, claimed by this tribune, is the most important thing before the vote, raise your hand and so on. And when the MP becomes and declares out of this tribune his voice, he must be respected. By the way, this isn't the first time this has happened in this room. Many times I've corrected my own voice when the system didn't read it the right way. So really, please respect Mrs. Tsoneva's wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u79	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Colleagues, are there any other procedures on this subject? You have the floor, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I accept the argument that the will expressed by the parliamentary tribune of a Member of the National Assembly is the supreme will of the Members of the National Assembly. However, I do not accept the argument and the explanation for voting in one way, but for mistaking the system by another. After all, you, the honourable majority, just over an hour ago, did not give the will of every Bulgarian citizen a chance to vote because you trust the machine vote. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] In this sense, it is natural, and much more logical to trust, as the vote of Bulgarian citizens, when they do so personally with the pen of the paper bulletin...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u81	Mrs. Atanasova, we're not in that hypothesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u82	...than when they do it with a machine. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] However, I have taken the floor to raise another question, fellow Members. Colleagues, there are likely to be other similar cases in relation to the upcoming votes. Please, Mr. Chairman, is Mrs. Tsoneva's voice changing in any way the result of the decision voted twice under this paragraph? If he does, will you allow a third vote on this paragraph? And what's the bottom line? The vote at the first point in the paragraph, the re-voting in the same paragraph or any future third vote? Please inform the House, because this will be important in general for the course of the examination, discussion and voting of the entire State Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. In fact, Mrs. Atanasova, we do not express concerns, that is, Ms. Tsoneva's arguments are not only as concerns about whether the machine has read correctly or not, because she may have just gone astray right now and...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u84	She said a technical error.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u85	That's what she confirms from the spot. Mrs. Tsoneva, would you like to express your motives again not to speak on your behalf? Here you go. Colleagues, before I give the floor to Mrs. Tsoneva, since we are in a delicate situation, I suggest the following: either I will give 15 minutes so that I can think and discuss at the Chairman's Council, or the meeting can continue and return to this paragraph a little later? Think about it while Mrs. Tsoneva has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, what I'm saying is not that the machine was wrong, but that I pressed the wrong button. My wish is to vote against, not for. This is my technical error, not the machine's, this is my volition and I ask you to respect it and take account of the result in this way. This is not the first time this has happened among so many votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u87	Mr. Popov, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many times in this Chamber similar errors have occurred in the vote, whether they have been admitted by the Member of the National Assembly or by the technical means, but here the will of the Member of the National Assembly is important, which has been explicit, imperative and stated by this tribune, it is not voted and there is nothing to end the meeting. Reflect the will of the Member of the National Assembly with regard to the vote in question as it really is and let us move forward. It does not matter whether this changes or does not change the very decision of the National Assembly. If I change, it will be reflected, I am talking about the second vote in the revoting, so just reflect it in the system and in the minutes of today's meeting that Mrs. Tsoneva explicitly stated her will against the relevant decision we voted against the relevant text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u89	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mrs. Angelkova was first and Mrs. Miteva then.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, we have all sworn to uphold the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria and have therefore voted our Rules. You have the Rules, read Article. 60: The vote is personal, it is voted for....................................................................................................... The vote is clearly taking place, the National Assembly may decide separately the vote to be secret. A clear vote shall be made by means of the computerised voting system, by hand, by roll call, by hand signing, by name spelling the names, etc. 3, 4 and 5 must be proposed before the vote is launched. I don't understand what's not clear from the Rules of Procedure? Yeah, everybody gets confused, but at the end of the day, be careful by voting. When voting on our proposal, there was one of our group who abstained, but what to do. We must be careful how to vote. We have all agreed to vote through the computerised system and it is not right in this way to change the votes of the Members of the National Assembly. Anyone can decide to go out and say that after each vote they have been confused or that they have not voted as they should have voted, according to the instructions of their leaders. Please read the Rules of Procedure and follow the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u91	It would be wonderful, Mrs. Angelkova, if the Rules reflected this hypothesis. Unfortunately, don't do this. Mrs. Iva Miteva has the floor for procedure, then Mr. Slavov and Professor Mihailov. Mrs. Miteva, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I think it's clear that we're in the hypothesis of art. 60, para. 2, p. 1 "Vote through the computerised biometric system. Ms. Tsoneva voted twice as we all voted twice and expressed her vote clearly and categorically. That she voted for not giving her the right to vote against coming out and asking to vote for the third time, because it turns out that we all 239 MPs can now go out on the stand and start declaring our vote. Let us all be equally placed in the same position, and if you allow it, this means that every text from now on after the revoting twice per member will each be able to go out and declare a third vote, which is absolutely unacceptable. Yes, there was a change of vote here, but then when the people's representative voted against it, and the system was counting on it and he wanted his vote to continue to be against it. Yeah, that's a rule, but here the hypothesis is quite different.. just change the vote, expressed twice. Please don't let that happen. [[Applause from ICN and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Colleagues, as many procedures are required, I suggest that we return to the work of the National Assembly and focus on the budget. Do we have an understanding to go back to this paragraph in a moment when I clarify some questions, or should I take a break?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u94	Tell me your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u95	Colleagues, do we have an agreement to move on, or should I take a break, that's the question? Each group expressed its opinion, colleagues. If we continue with these procedures, we won't get anywhere. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, this is what I am explaining, I need to consult with the administration of the National Assembly, to hear their opinion in order to make a decision. Do we keep going or should I take a break? [[Noise and lines.]] I propose that this paragraph be voted on after the next texts that Mr Karimansky will discuss. [[Noise and lines.]] I am referring to the vote on the main text which we have not yet voted on. Mr. Karimansky for a technical procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u96	Guys, let's calm down a little bit. Paragraph 21, as I read earlier as an amendment, must now be put forward the proposals that have been voted on in this House, that is, the proposal that has been voted on in this House. So I'm making an editorial amendment to the basic text I read you about § 21 "on page 74. Be careful now and watch all the lyrics, don't get distracted. On page 74, para. 3, I read: the rate of tax under Art. 3. 66b shall apply until 1 July 2023. For the delivery of bread and now watch out for the flour with a place of execution on the territory of the country when importing goods on the territory of the country and the taxation of domestic community acquisitions of goods. 3. Then we move on to the amendment that needs to be moved into para. 5: For the purposes of para. 3 bread is a product and follows the definition of bread. We're finishing al. 5 at:... if necessary................................................................................. Then we continue with a sentence: "For the purposes of para. 3 flour is a product obtained from the grinding of wheat bread and is suitable for the production of bread and bread products. 5. These are legal and technical amendments based on the previously adopted proposal. And now we can vote the whole § 21. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u97	Mr. Karimansky, thank you. Colleagues, I'm giving you 15 minutes off, and then we'll get back to voting. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u98	Colleagues, please take your seats! I'm resuming the hearing. With regard to the case that arose before the break, I believe that with the revoting made the system reflected the will of the MPs, and although Ms Tsoneva voted against it in the initial vote, and that she then expressed from the stand her will, that she actually wanted to vote against, but voted for, I believe that the result of the second vote should be adopted, therefore the proposal that was made and voted, the result of it remains as previously declared. [[Applause from IHN.]] Colleagues, this is another proof of how no last-minute proposals should be made, how no voting games should be made in one way or another, how each of us should be sufficiently careful and responsible for how we vote at some point and how proposals should not actually be made at the last moment, editorial or any other last-minute amendments, because from each action the results can be extremely substantial and have a particularly high financial dimension and not only. Mr. Karimanski, I would ask you once again to read the proposals you made in the context of the proposal adopted earlier by the MPs from your formation. And I ask you to say whether this is really the will of the Budget Committee, whether there is really an agreement on these editorial amendments that you are making, whether they are really necessary in view of the proposal already adopted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! What I read about § 21 is a systematized version of the paragraph according to the adopted decision of all of you. I have done nothing more and I believe that the Commission has nothing to say on this because it is editorial. It's just systematized in the final version of § 21. There are two options, I think, that we are voting in the version of § 21 as I have proposed. If accepted, if not accepted, then there remains the proposal that has been accepted and the version that is attached to the Reporter. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u100	Please read the editorial proposal made again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u101	Okay, I'm reading the editorial proposal one more time. On page 74: (3) The rate of the tax under art. 66b shall apply until 1 July 2023 for the supply of bread and flour with a place of execution for the territory of the country, for imports of goods within the territory of the country and for taxable intra-Community acquisitions of goods. This is the editing of al. 3. For the purposes of para. 3 "Fry bread" is a product that is produced... "Should follow the whole definition of bread until the end of the sentence, after which, to enter the definition of flour, we say: "For the purposes of para. 3 is a product obtained from the grinding of wheat bread and is suitable for the production of bread and bread products. That's the definition, nothing more. I'm not changing anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u102	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Mr. Karadaye, do you still hold on to your procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had stated a procedure before the break to know what we were doing in similar situations. Because with Mrs. Tsoneva's re-entry here on this stand for all of us, it became clear that the system was not wrong and that the vote of the MP and the will of the people's representative was not correctly taken into account, and it was consciously voted in a certain way, and twice. [[Noise and lines from... Democratic Bulgaria.]] From this point of view, Mr. Chairman, there is a significant difference with what happened to Mr. Atalay. We heard him here from this tribune that he had voted in a certain way, but the system had otherwise read his vote and his will. That's two different things. And we understand that Mrs. Tsoneva wanted to vote very much, but she didn't want to, in a certain way. She expressed her will at that time at the time of the vote. We get that. It is that after the vote it has changed its will, its opinion and that there is no other opinion, honourable Members, there is no third vote anymore. Because in the same way, it may be that Mrs. Tsoneva voted wrong for the vote of no confidence very soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u104	Mr. Karadaye, please, we're not going in...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u105	And in the same way, it could be that she voted wrong for this government, and even more could be that she voted wrong in the elections. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u106	Mr. Karadaye, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u107	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u108	None of us are able to comment on why, how and what Mrs Tsoneva's will was. I believe that it came out and declared its will from this tribune the highest in the country. We must decide what legal consequences this will has, and I have expressed my opinion. Colleagues, do we have any comments regarding the proposals made by Mr. Karimani? We don't. I put to the vote the editorial proposals made by Mr. Karimansky. Vote 227 MPs: 174, against 52, abstention 1. That's how the offer is accepted. There's a request for a re-vote, so we're re-voting. Vote 232 MPs: 149, against 75, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I now put to the vote the main text of § 18 in the version of the Commission with the already adopted proposal with a signature 207 and according to the editorial amendments proposed by Mr Karimanski and adopted just now by the National Assembly, which becomes § 21. Vote 231 MPs: 206, against 25, abstention not. That's how the offer is accepted. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor to proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer under § 19, proposing that § 19 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 18, which becomes § 21, t. 9, para. 7 and para. 8. The Commission supports the text of the importer under § 20 by proposing that § 20 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place in § 18, which becomes § 21, t. 10. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer under § 21 by proposing that § 21 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 18, which becomes § 21, t. 11. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer under § 22 and shall propose the following version of § 22. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law amending the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. (c) in § 10 of the transitional and final provisions, the words Proposal of the MP Plamen Abrovski and Lyubomir Karimanski. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Snezhanka Trayanska, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Desislava Taneva, Maria Belova and Irena Dimova, ending 247. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... In the Law amending and supplementing the Act on Independent Financial Audit (prom., SG No. (c) in § 65 of the transitional and final provisions, the words According to § 23 there is a proposal received by the MP Martin Dimitrov, Georgi Ganev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Ganev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Venko Sabrutev, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Georgi Ganev and Lyubomir Karimanski. The Commission does not support the proposal. In § 23, points 3, 4 and 5 all over the words Proposal of MP Georgi Svilenski and group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, and it is in transitional and final provisions § 23, p. 3, 4 and 5 all over the text the expression Proposal of the MP Georgi Ganev and Lyubomir Karimanski, ending 231. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Venice Netzova-Angova and a group of MPs: In § 23, a new item is created. 1: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 is created It's six. e-cigarette liquid containing 2. Previously on "T." 1 is t. 2 and is amended as follows: "2." In Chapter 2, Section II is created art. 12b: Art. 12b. (1) The liquid for an electronic cigarette containing a symbol is a liquid used by inhalation of money resulting from heating, without burning, and is intended for use with electronic cigarettes or contained in refill containers within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 39 and 40 of the additional provisions of the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act. (2) The provisions for tobacco products shall apply to electronic cigarettes containing nicotine. 3. Previously on "T." 2 "6" becomes 3 "7" respectively. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the The Commission does not support the proposal in other points. 3. Proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs ending 256. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In the Law on excises and tax warehouses (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 11 is amended as follows: . (11) The authorised warehousekeepers, including those which do not have sufficient storage capacity for the storage of their own energy products within the meaning of art. 47, para. 13 to 19.00 on each working day, send an electronic notification to the Office of Customs at the time of sending the data, which is published by 9.00 on the next working day in the register under para. 12. (b) the creation of para. 12 and 13: A public register of up-to-date data provided by authorised warehousekeepers for availability or lack of spare storage capacity as required by art. 47, para. 12. (13) The format and content of the register under para. 12 shall be determined by the rules for the enforcement of the law. 2. Paragraph 6a and 6b shall be inserted in the transitional and final provisions: 6a. (1) Recovery of the paid excise duty for electricity under art. 24g shall apply until 30 June 2025 to the following persons: 1. licensed railway carriers and railway infrastructure managers for the traction and non-electric power used by them in carrying out their activities; 2. Transport operators carrying passengers by subway, tram or trolleybuses for the electricity used by them in the transport of passengers. (2) The restoration under para. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 1. 24g on the basis of a written request to be submitted by the 15th of the month following the quarter in which electricity is consumed. § 6b. (1) The following excise duty rates shall apply until 30 June 2025: 1. On motor fuels: a) for liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) falling within CN codes 2711 12 11 to 2711 19 00 0 BGN for 1000 kilograms; (b) for natural gas falling within CN codes 2711 11 00 and 2711 21 00 for 1 gigajoule; 2. For the heat produced, BGN 0, in the cases referred to in art. 28, para. 2 for energy products used for cogeneration of heat and electricity. 3. For electricity falling within CN code 2716 0 BGN for megawatt hours, provided that the electricity produced is: (a) of solar, wind energy, wave, tide or geothermal origin; b) of hydraulic origin produced in hydroelectric installations; (c) generated from biomass or from products produced from biomass; (d) generated from methane released in abandoned coal mines; (e) generated by fuel cells. (2) The effective rate under para. 1, t. BGN 340 is increased to BGN 1. for 1000 kilograms, and the excise rate under para. 1, t. 1 letter "b" at BGN 5,10 for 1 gigajoule, in the event that the European Commission gives an act of non-compliance with State aid rules in the form of zero excise rates for liquefied petroleum gas and natural gas used as motor fuel from the date of application of the act. According to § 24, there is a proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs ending 256. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 24 be rejected. Under § 25, there is a proposal by the National Representative Yordan Tsonev and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop paragraph 25. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 25 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u110	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion on so-read texts. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u111	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! There is a record increase in fuel prices in Bulgaria. It's clear to all of us that that's true. In 2019, the Commission for Protection of Competition conducted a sectoral analysis involving hundreds of experts. The first point of what should be done according to them, their first conclusion is the following: to be public information about the free capacities of tax and tax warehouses. This is the first point, the first conclusion, the most important conclusion these hundreds of people have reached! Because there is more competition, more transparency in this market. The big question is: why hasn't this happened since 2019? What mode was in place? We asked the Ministry of Finance with a written question and they did a check. It turned out that free capacities were not announced because some operators had given phones, other operators had a website, a third had done otherwise. I mean, systemity doesn't exist. The logical question arises: so many concerned MPs for more competition and more transparency in the fuel market, however the first and most essential measure three years later has not been introduced. I thank my colleagues from the Budget Committee who have heard and understood our arguments, which have shown concern about having more competition and lower prices in the fuel market, respectively, which have understood that until we make this market transparent, until it is clear where there are free capacities that will ease imports, open imports, open competition, there will be more traders and lower prices, these issues cannot be resolved. So, colleagues, regardless of such small political tensions that there are, we can together make reforms and we must make reforms. This is an example of a key reform. Thank you for having signed the colleagues from the Bulgarian Democratic Republic and from the Bulgarian Socialist Party and from the Bulgarian Socialist Party and from the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Because we all understood that without these measures there would be no more competition in the fuel market. Again, I ask, especially those who have chosen the current KPC you have voted for these people, we have not chosen them. They've done a sector analysis of hundreds of pages and they've told you, first of all, this is your first and most important task. You have read this sector analysis because I believe that you are responsible, colleagues, and the first and most important task you do not perform! Well, how? Otherwise, listening to this room, in words, everyone is very concerned about fuel prices, they are very worried that there was a lev that was an overestimate that was lost! They're all very concerned. However, by putting the particulars on the table, part of the decision, yes, this is part of the solution, we need other measures, but this is the first and very important part of the solution! So, honourable Members, I appeal to all Members of the National Assembly in the Budget Committee, this proposal has been supported, for which I thank you: it better be one of the meaningful reforms behind which we all unite and understand that step by step we will create more competition in the fuel market and thus achieve more favourable prices. I'm counting on all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u112	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any lines, coworkers? I won't. Mr. Ivanov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! New, historical fuel prices records for one lev increase in not six months. Here we have to ask ourselves this question, fellow Members: why has the State Reserves and Wartime Reserves Act not been implemented in one year? One year, consecutively by several ministers of the economy. Minister Kiril Petkov, then another minister of the economy, next to the current Mrs. Nino. We recall that the aim of the adopted supplement then in the Law, July 2020, is through the management of oil bases by the State Oil Company to improve competition on the fuel market in the country, which will benefit end-users in terms of price, fellow Members, the price of fuels, which we mentioned is growing record and is one lev above the price of fuels from the previous year. On the other hand, the state reserve remained in state hands at the time. You now, fellow Members, have a bill tabled to close this State Oil Company, stressing that the main reason for the amendment of the Law then is precisely the recommendation by the Commission for Protection of Competition to increase competition in the market to access excise warehouses, as the previous one stressed. However, we are now doing another one year without fulfilling the Law, one year from the service and from the current government, closing and making a new reform! That means we're procrastinating further in time. I don't think this is working, guys. Here you owe an answer to the Bulgarian citizens: why in a year one lev expires somewhere? One lev of the prices that Bulgarian citizens pay for petrol and diesel disappear, evaporate. The law then increased the number of tax warehouses and it's even active, colleagues. You didn't even shut it down, you didn't shut down the State Oil Company. Then the Commission for Protection of Competition announced that on the basis of many sectoral analyses carried out for the development of the competitive environment on the market of fuels, the answer was given, Borisov's government then made all the necessary steps and since April 2021 this could already be a fact. However, it is obviously not profitable for someone to make this happen for a year so that one lev disappears from the price of gas that Bulgarian citizens and business pay above the price compared to the previous year. The competition commission then also found that tax warehouses are one of the biggest barriers to entry on the market. It is the wrestlers for greater competition in this market, however, one year do nothing. And now, in an election campaign, the colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" united with others wash their hands somehow in one year. However, we will remind every day the Bulgarian citizens why they pay a lev. Who steals them?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u114	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u115	Who steals them? Answer yourself! The one who doesn't follow the law, Mr. Ananiev. The one who doesn't obey the law! Ask Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, who was Minister of Economy, why didn't he comply with the law? Why hasn't he provided access on a competitive basis to other players in the fuel market? Perhaps to provide comfort to a major player who has a processing base in Burgas?! That's how he protects his comfort. Where's that left-hand man going? We still don't have an answer. In a moment we will consider another proposal, which is for 0.25 cm. However, I think that this will be another drain of the treasury again from this government and this unsuccessful attempt to introduce normality on the fuel market in Bulgaria. There are a few logical questions here, colleagues, and I'm done. Why is it that during the past year a series of ministers of the economy do not comply with the law of the Offices and the regular current government in resignation? Why is it that there is nothing to do and not think about the cost of fuel to consumers, colleagues? Why is the idea of promoting competition not being implemented, but is now presented at the end of the mandate a new concept? Whose interests are they protecting, colleagues? You must answer from the majority responsible! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u116	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Martin Dimitrov for a line. You have the floor. Delyan Dobrev for the second, Iskren Mitev for the third.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u117	In fact, Mr. Ivanov, you from GERB have claimed for years that there is no problem with tax and tax warehouses. Even Kiril Ananiev, who is sitting over there next to you, you can ask him, he refused to give us information on who owns the tax and tax warehouses, so we had to conduct the cases we won under the Publicity of Information Act, honourable Members, that is, you refused to answer these questions. Another important thing, Mr. Ivanov is very important. As early as 2016, you before the KPC, before your KPC came to these conclusions, before it reached 2016, we requested that the Ministry of Finance should announce the free capacities in the tax warehouses, a bill that GERB rejected....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, we now believe that there is a possibility that this key bill, the free capacities to be clear, to go through the plenary, we have been working on it for months, yes, 2016. You have rejected it, but we now believe that you, too, who claim to have a problem with fuel prices, are very interesting to me how you will vote. I will follow extremely closely because in the Commission you did not support it, I am very closely monitoring you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u118	That's not true. You can see the report. I have supported him in the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u119	Okay, maybe I was wrong. I will now watch you vote specifically on this subject. As for the State Oil Company, colleagues, it was created with the idea of increasing the number of gas stations. And I then pulled you out, colleagues, that Bulgaria per capita has the most gas stations in the entire European Union. After all, what's important? Keep in mind when you speak on this subject that your finance ministers refused access to information about who owns the tax and tax warehouses and we sued them. We sued them and won the cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u120	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u121	Here, Mr. Ananiev says to you, "That's right! Listen, Mr. Ivanov! That's because you were denying that there was such a problem. This is GERB's position for 10 years. You say: such a problem does not exist. And today we understand, and you acknowledge it, which is a step forward, such a problem exists, colleagues. So let's stop the opposition and go to the solution. Again, I say to you: the Commission for Protection of Competition, as the first point, the people you have chosen, supports the idea of the publicity of free capacities as the most important measure for more competition. They themselves say the people you chose there that this is the most important measure for more competition in this market. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, colleagues, let us make this reform together, because it will have results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u122	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Dobrev, you have the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u123	Dear Mr. Ivanov, first of all, you should have told your colleagues that we would support this text, as we have supported it in the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is our consistent position. We believe that our colleague Martin Dimitrov's proposal is good and that it will help for greater competition in the market indeed. Secondly, you should point out, however, that this proposal will in no case result in a significant reduction in petrol and diesel prices. It's a fact. Yeah, there's gonna be more transparency, yeah, maybe someone's gonna be easier to store fuel, yeah, maybe there's gonna be another two players in the local market, but today's problem is rooted elsewhere. Not that Lukoil didn't pay taxes. It's not the biggest problem you've been talking about for 10 years. It's not the biggest problem! For six months, we've had another much bigger problem than the tax one. And by the way, when it comes to paying taxes why they are not paid, I know that.Yes, Bulgaria, in fact.. Democratic Bulgaria.......................................................................................... why they are not paid................................................................................................................................................ You're in power! Get those reports! You have protested against the representative of the state in Lukoil, who is Parvanov, some type of person named Krasimir Parvanov. Well, eight months ago, you didn't change it for Krasimir Parvanov, did you even re-elected him last week?! [[Noise and lines.]] And let's get back to the main problem. The main problem has been for six months and it is that the price of Ural oil has not changed in the past six months.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u124	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u125	She hasn't changed. One year hasn't even changed, Ganev, not six months. For one year the price of Ural Oil has not changed, it is traded at 30-40% discount from Brenta. At 30-40% discount from Brenta is trading this Ural Oil!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u126	Not yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u127	The VAT is the same, the excise duty is the same, the electricity is the same, the gas is the same, the wages are the same, only in six months, for some reason, the fuel jumped with lev and something. This is the problem that you do not want to talk about, and for the third week you have not submitted the point for the Temporary Commission, which should have dealt with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u128	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Mitev, you have the floor for the third line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I am surprised that you are a financier, and I am surprised that you continue the lie about the missing one lev. I don't know who's picking him up...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u130	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u131	In fact, I know who's taking this one, and I'll get there, but I'll tell you who's not taking it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u132	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u133	The Bulgarian state or companies that are in Bulgaria do not take it away because the Bulgarian state does not participate. We say it for the 20th time, but I will say it again, you obviously do not hear: the Bulgarian state does not participate in the production of fuels, the production of fuels is done by private companies. These private companies, in the case of Lukoil Neftohim Burgas, are producing for a Swiss fuel company, which is trading on the free market in Europe, Mr. Dobrev. And you are now coming and saying: a Swiss company that provides a single commodity on the Bulgarian market on a free market principle, you want to go to this company to collect its margin. Tell me, what is this? It's like going to a guy who sells tomatoes and telling him, "How much do you make out of tomatoes?"! That's absolutely... It's bordering on madness! The State has no right to put such pressure on the free market. What, though, can the state do? The state can ensure that more importers can have the opportunity to sell fuels in Bulgaria. That is exactly what Mr. Martin Dimitrov proposed. You know that fuels are excise goods. An excise commodity must be kept in warehouses. These warehouses whether they are free or not, this information must be public in order for me, if I want to import fuels, to know if there is a place to store them in order to create competitiveness on the Bulgarian market and so I can influence prices. Yeah, you're right, that's not gonna make them drop 0.30 at once. fuels when this law enters, but will create the ability of more people to trade. In the economy, you know that when there is more opportunity to trade, the price falls. So, Mr. Ivanov, you know very well, this one lev goes to a private company. I don't understand what your desire is to constantly hit private companies and try to blackmail them?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u134	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u135	I want the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u136	I've got you on tape, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u137	Mr. Chairman, the topic is very hot. And to Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Dimitrov, your bill was supported by the entire GERB-SDZ group in the Budget Committee and here you are wrong, I hope you will be corrected. Mr. Dimitrov, you don't answer where this lev goes? To which account, whose account does this one go? The theft of the century, if not the millennium! One lev of each litre that Bulgarian citizens have been loading for one year. The spare capacity in the warehouses, Mr. Dimitrov, is good to be announced on the Customs website, however, with this bill and the closure of the State Oil Company in these warehouses continue to remain above 75%, if memory serves me, of Lukoil and you do not solve this issue. Why is the subject of the Democratic Bulgaria, since you are in power, the subject of Lukoil is taboo? There is no commission, there is no tax to ask where the audit acts are, and you suddenly have a complete fog for you. You will not solve the problems with this bill and will not understand the Bulgarian citizens who steal one lev out of the pocket of every liter of fuel. Mr. Dobrev, I confirm that we will support this bill of colleagues, but the issue is not solved. We say that for one year, on the contrary, everything is being done to blame for wider market access and price reduction. As we can see, the government's successes in this direction are a lev loss for Bulgarian citizens and a lev in someone's offshore account. Whose offshore account to tell the government. Because, Mr. Mitev, the state may not have an oil company, but Mr. Vasilev the Deputy Prime Minister has gone to Europe and asked for a derogation for this oil company for Lukoil. Isn't that right? Do you remember that several times he went to convince the European Commission that Lukoil would continue to bring this oil in? So, in this case, your thesis exhales and you say you know whose account this one lev goes to. I call on you to be open, honest to the full, sometimes you amaze me even with your openness, and I call you to the fullest extent to reveal, once you know where this lev goes, which is stolen from the pocket of every Bulgarian citizen every day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u138	Bullshit!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u139	Once again, I would like to point out that the topic with Lukoil is suddenly taboo, colleagues, and you don't ask the ministers of the economy for a year, you don't ask a question to Prime Minister Petkov why hasn't he respected the law for a year? Why didn't the next ministers follow the law? Why doesn't Mrs. Ninova obey the law? These are important questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u140	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u141	Wait a minute. For personal explanations Mr. Martin Dimitrov and then Iskren Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u142	I rarely take the floor for a personal explanation, but because Mr. Ivanov said a few false things... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u143	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u144	...and it's important to be clarified. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] The first false thing is this: the organization, the institution in Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u145	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u146	...which can sanction non-market practices is KPC, and you stopped their shift. You stopped changing the CDC because what's going on in the fuel market, you like it. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, that's right. Secondly, we have proposed a committee for Lukoil, to be chaired by a member of GERB, Danny Mitov, and you voted against, and we said to you then: but don't waste our time, let this committee start working immediately. You didn't do it on purpose, and now you say we're very concerned about the fuel market. But you didn't ask for such a commission, colleagues! And third of all, we asked the Democratic Bulgaria to change the representative of the state in Lukoil. We asked for and proved that he didn't send and didn't prepare reports properly. And who picked this guy? You picked this guy and you sent him there, you guys. So reduce the demagogy a little bit. For 12 years, you didn't see what was going on in the fuel market, so we sued the finance ministers to show who owned these tax warehouses. It wasn't clear before. So, colleagues, GERB, having gone into opposition, saw that there was a problem in the fuel market. Before that, 10, 12 years of trouble like this, you couldn't see. And the most important inference is the only institution that can sanction non-market practices, the KPC, you chose it, you like it and you do your best not to change it. Because six years later, unfortunately, these results, which have achieved other countries in Europe, are gone. That's the way it is, guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u147	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. First for a personal explanation "Iskren Mitev." Then there's Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Gazhev's procedure and Mr. Ganev's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you are asking a few questions for me personally. I want to answer that. First, Bulgaria ranks 28th of the countries in Europe at the price of fuels.. one of the lowest prices of fuels, and this is because of excise duty. One lev, as I said, goes to a private company and the private company that negotiates, there are a few, but So I guess one of the fuel traders companies, that one lev goes into their account and the state has no right to interfere in that. And thirdly, why did he negotiate Mr. Asen Vassilev? Well, see, that's the point of the state to help the Bulgarian business, not to twist their hands, as you did for 12 years. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u149	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u150	I will take advantage of this, Mr. President, without abusing the regulations and will respond to both colleagues in a personal explanation in the same procedure. Mr. Dimitrov, any excuses for your weak rule are unnecessary. The results show record inflation, fuel prices, electricity prices, and what you did yesterday in the Budget Commission, you left from July 1st all kindergartens, all temples, all manufacturers, all hairdressers, all bathrooms at a free market price without any compensation. Since July 1 thanks to you 700 leva. Megawatts will pay everyone without compensation. In other European countries, we have seen that on average business pays 135. But for the price of fuel, no matter how bad the management of GERB is, no matter how much you claim that we have something to do with it, someone is stealing during your management, not to say that you are stealing it, but someone in this government is obviously stealing because the price of fuel is now one lev more. That's a fact, and you can't argue with that. And to Mr. Mitev, I continue. The price of excise fuel in Bulgaria, Mr. Mitev, has not been changed for at least five years in Bulgaria and it is the lowest in Europe. So that can't be an excuse. One left disappears somewhere. We don't know where, if you know, tell us where it is? The Council of Ministers should leave so that this one lev can be stolen from Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Gazhev for procedure. Here you go, Mr. Gadget. [[The National Representative Delyan Dobrev wants the floor.]] Mr. Dobrev, Mr. Ganev is ahead of you for speaking. He had declared himself before Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, I assume you have already realized that you have made a mistake by giving these personal explanations. If you open the Rules of Procedure and the text which defines what is a personal explanation when a Member of the Parliament has been mentioned and personally affected in a speech. Mr. Ivanov made a statement. The colleagues Martin Dimitrov and Iskren Mitev made a replica of the speech, didn't they? And they had two minutes to do their lines. Logically, it makes perfect sense for him to turn to those who replicated it. The moment you gave a personal explanation to those who replicated it that they were mentioned in the back, then you gave one more for the replicators' duplicate. It's getting a little out of hand, let's put it this way. So, Mr. Chairman, I think you've also realized that this way of conducting doesn't work out the way it should, because now everyone who speaks, when they don't like the back, will want a second line, a third line, a fourth line, and the debate will go nowhere. Not to mention that it became a bit unpleasant for you in the speech itself, because Mr. Martin Dimitrov is guilty of the fact that the law on the KPC has not passed. He passed, by the way, at second reading in the Commission. You have to distribute it to enter the room, which is not happening. The two proposed committees for Lukoil, which have been submitted to the National Assembly, must be put on the agenda. You as President, by setting the agenda, do not include them on the agenda. So at the moment, the President is the only one who can be on the agenda. Read your Rules of Procedure The President is proposing the agenda. [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Read the rules, Mr. Ananiev. Learn it at last, it's been seven months.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u153	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Ivanov, are you still holding? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Ivanov wants a procedure. Prof. Ivanov, not Alexander Ivanov. [[The National Representative Alexander Ivanov goes to the stands.]] Mr. Alexander Ivanov, I didn't give you the floor, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u154	I made a lapsus, that's why.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u155	Mr. Ivanov, step away from the stands, please. Docent Ivanov, Lachezar Ivanov, yes, please come in for a procedure. And I'm Ivanov at all such a rare family.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, with all due respect, I would like to make you a comment in the manner of conduct. Because we are looking at an extremely important bill, so if we continue, you will lose control of this House. What do I mean? It is said that our MP, respectively, comes out on this stand to make a reply and does not make a reply to the speaker, but a reply is made to the speaker who has made a reply. So if we keep going, we won't be able to get anywhere. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to a personal explanation. Please refer to when the floor for personal explanation is given. There's no way for a personal explanation to come out here, out of this tribune, and to deal with the general political issues of an entire group. Please follow the rules. Follow the regulations as it is written down, because you will miss the House. There will be responsible decisions and votes and then there will be someone again: I thought so, and I voted otherwise. Please follow the rules. I believe that for now the good spirit is being respected and depends very much on you how to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For speech Georgi Ganev. Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will speak on § 23 by importer. First, I will start by supporting what Mr. Martin Dimitrov and I proposed. I see that it has strong support, and I hope it will pass in this House. Yes, this will not solve the issue of some deflation of fuels in Bulgaria, but it certainly changes the structure of the market in the direction of greater competition and, unfortunately, over time, the good things in the economy usually work slowly, over time will put pressure on at least not to increase prices by as much as they would grow without this measure. I therefore urge you to support it when it comes to the vote. But I will address another part of § 23, especially with a request for the vote in the Chamber. I very much ask that we vote explicitly because the Commission adopted Mr. Tsonev's proposal for points 1 to 5 by importer to drop out and to remain only point. 6 and so on. 7. This has been supported by the Commission, but I would very much like points 1 to 5 by importer, however, to vote in this House explicitly. Accordingly, in this vote in the Chamber, because there were proposals relating to these points of 1 "5" to be explicitly voted in the Chamber and a proposal with a signature ending at 211, submitted by me and Mr Karimanski, for a change in the dates on which these excise duties will enter into force, and the same proposal, but with a different date of the colleagues of BSP, a proposal with signature No 225, also to be put to the vote because it is important. Why is it important? I continue with my speech it is important because this proposal of the subject of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget includes a clear calendar until mid 2025, that is, a medium horizon of the movement of excise goods for various tobacco products. A clear calendar of what will happen to these excise rates over the next three to four years is introduced by 1 July 2025, which will help participants in this market to structure their strategies, to have some clarity, some certainty in the excise rates with which their products will be taxed, and therefore to be able to develop their competitive strategies, strategies for competing on this market in accordance with this regime. So this is a proposal in the direction of increasing security for businesses. Yes, there is an increase in rates, of course, but this is related to pan-European tobacco processes. I therefore very much ask that, although the Commission has not been supported, this House should support the introduction of this increased dose of security and at least clarity, predictability in the country for businesses and, of course, support the proposal, whether ours, given to BSP colleagues for this year, because we are already two days from 1 July and there is no technological time, to change all associated with changing rates of procedure, to give a graceful period of introduction of the new rates for this year. Whether it will be August 1st, whether it will be September 1st to decide the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u159	He's going to vote anyway. I wanted to see if you wanted to do something outside the rules. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? For a line? Here you go. [[The National Representative Delyan Dobrev wants the floor.]] I don't see you on the list, but I'll put you on the list. [[Heckling]] We won't miss you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ganev, I have a question for you as a macroeconomicist. You taught, I personally attended your lessons, they were my favorite at the University and I want to ask a question to explain to the House because apparently Mr. Dobrev doesn't understand it. One way to prosper is foreign investment. Foreign investments largely depend on political risk, or so it was when we taught it. Now that a political party blames a foreign company, sees their margins and tells them: this margin is large or small and you have to reduce it or we will twist your hands, how does it affect foreign investment? What will be the next company to be the victim of the political attacks of certain political individuals? Who's gonna be the next company? Is this gonna be some big IT company? What will be the next company for which people from GERB will come out and say: hey, your margins are such, you have to reduce them? Please, Mr. Ganev, explain what's next. What's next? We have seen while managing the Change Continued and our coalition have risen 333 times foreign investments and during GERB were low. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Is this related to the political risk, is it related to the fact that GERB have curved the hands not only of Bulgarian companies but also of foreign companies? Please, Mr. Ganev, explain it as a teacher, because apparently people here don't understand it: what does it mean for a political person to look at the margins of a foreign company and try to take them away? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u161	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. For a line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov, for a line. You're the third line, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is very important that we clarify one question. It's called: there are non-market practices in the fuel market, Mr. Ganev. And here even colleagues from GERB with great concern talk about these non-market practices. I ask you this: what is the only institution in Bulgaria that can check and investigate these non-market practices? What is this one institution? [[Noise and lines.]] I'm asking you to explain it because it's a big demagogy. So, these people chose this institution, hindered its shift, and then say they're very worried about fuel prices. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u163	Mr. Dimitrov, stop for a moment to calm down the colleagues, because there are screaming on the left and on the right, and I don't even understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u164	So my principle question, Mr. Ganev, to you is in the form of a line to clarify which is the only institution in Bulgaria that can investigate and check non-market practices? Explain who she is, what she can do, and if she's doing it to you to say it. Is she doing this right now in six years, and if she hasn't done it in six years, can we expect anything to happen from six years away? I'm interested in your professional expert opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u165	Third line from Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u166	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ganev, I will address you as a well-known and good macro-economicist, as my colleague said, by the way, I am shocked by the zealous protection of Russian financial interests in Bulgaria by "We continue the Change" and the question is how much a private company should be regulated by the market, especially excise goods such as fuels. There is another question here specifically for you. Since the state should not interfere with the distribution of profits to private companies regardless of their origin, then how would you support the proposals for redistribution and seizure of the profits of RES companies that are also private, which are also of foreign origin to capital and which have been imported by the Council of Ministers? In other words, the Government of Change politically wants to seize revenue from private companies, so maybe there is some double standard here for other private companies, but for Lukoil couldn't either for the Swiss division. By the way, as a member of the Economic Commission, do you know whether Commissioner Dimitrov signed a Report for the Second Reading of the Changes in the KPC so that he could still enter the Chamber? We never know what's bothering Mr. Dimitrov, and I'm very curious to know what's bothering him. I hope someday we'll find out. As to the very proposals for more publicity of the excise warehouses and the role of the state, by the way, I remember that there have been inspections started since the time of the minister of the service, Asen Vassilev, and it is interesting why he is not in the Chamber during this debate about Lukoil Neftohim, and they have been going on for more than a year. Maybe that's a reason why it's not clear, but again, just to say, it became clear from the representatives of "We're continuing the Change".. There's a lev that's being stolen and it goes to a private company.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u167	While you're here for the doppelganger, Mr. Ganev, to note that the debate has become too general and has little to do with the topics we are discussing, or at least it is too auspicious. Therefore, please, let us concentrate on the concrete proposals that we are discussing, and general policy issues are made in declarations and in other ways. Here you go, Mr. Ganev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Order of tricks. Mr. Mitev, there is a direct link between the level of protection of the rights of the people, including the rights related to their business, especially the right to property and the desire to invest in the future. Of course, this includes the desire of foreigners to invest in an appropriate country. This relationship is theoretically abundantly justified, and empirically specifically for Bulgaria there is enough convincing evidence and evidence that it exists. Bulgaria is a country with a deficit of capital. Her savings almost never in history, her internal savings, were not enough to finance the capital formed sufficiently to catch up with her more developed countries. I have been talking about the whole history of Bulgaria since 1878. The flow of capital outside to finance capital formation and to carry out this catch-up has always been of key importance and the more secure the legal system and legal certainty in the country, the better this catching-up has happened, by the way, not to go into deeper theoretical conversations. To Mr. Dimitrov's question. This only institution in Bulgaria is the Commission for Protection of Competition. I would say that Parliament can also play a role through its control powers, but the main institution that has to do business in this regard is the Commission for Protection of Competition. Finally, on the issue of private capital. Yes, personally, I would be opposed to involving the state in the margins of private companies, as long as the state does not guarantee buying-in prices, if it's private, be private, right? If it will rely on the state in one direction, it should expect the state to act slightly in the opposite direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u169	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. To speak, Mr. Dobrev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Apart from the personal explanations and the various procedures, I consider this debate very useful, because in this House truths have been heard even from the ruling Party of Change, I have heard a truth that I am impressed with. This truth is that one lev really gets lost. I thank Mr. Iskren Mitev, as the leading MP in the group of My opinion is that you should not lose a lev while Mr. Mitev says that since it is a private company, she can collect that lev, no problem, send it to the Swiss account, everything is correct. We shouldn't interfere with this Russian, Swiss or any company. In this regard, Mr President, and since I now feel that there is consensus in this Chamber, here we are from the Change.We continue to think so from GERB, the DPS think so and have stated it, that is, almost all parliamentary groups are of the opinion that one lev in every liter of petrol and diesel in Bulgaria is diverting to some accounts, somewhere going. In this regard, I am making a procedural proposal to call the head of the NSA to tell us whether they have information, whether they have tracked these financial flows, if these billions really go, because it is 3.5 billion. lv. per year, colleagues, 3 billion and a half liters is the consumption of one lev of 3.5 billion. lv. They go to the Swiss account if they go there, as Mr. Mitev says. I agree that one left is gone. Let's ask the head of the NSA: does he know the number of this account? Does he know these flows when they come into this account are they allocated to any other offshore accounts? Where are these accounts and whose accounts are these? Does she know why Bulgaria, without any interest the Bulgarian consumer, protects and lobbys not protects, but lobbys before the European Commission, Lukoil Neftohim. The Bulgarian government in the face of the Deputy Prime Minister lobbies in the European Commission as an exception we continue to buy Russian oil, from which someone earns one lev and this one lev goes to the Swiss account, 3.5 billion. lv. Total. Did he...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u171	What paragraph is that, Mr. Dobrev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u172	On the subject, yes, on the subject of fuel.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u173	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u174	Did he...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u175	I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u176	Paragraph 22, yes. ...receiptary Asen Vassilev meetings with Lukoil and how many such meetings have been held? We should also ask the head of the DANS: is there information as well as what was said at these meetings? Was he defending any foreign interest? We see that the services yesterday and in the last month have probably done their job well in relation to people who are working against the interests of Bulgaria, the diplomats in question who announced that they are chasing, that is, the services are doing their job well and we want to see if they have done their job well in terms of fuel. Once again, it is common opinion of almost the entire Chamber that one lev of every liter of petrol and diesel goes somewhere, and so I suggest we call the head of the NSA and he tells us: does 3.5 billion go? lv. to the Bulgarian users in a Swiss account? Is this Swiss account being reassigned in any way to offshores? Did Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev and Lukoil have meetings several times and what they talked about at these meetings? Why is this same Deputy Prime Minister in the European Commission lobbying for the interests of a private company - Lukoil Neftohim - without the Bulgarian consumer having any interest in this? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u177	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. For a line, Mr. Gadget? We'd like to see what a disagreement you're about to make about what you've said.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u178	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dobrev, first of all we need to note, as a company working on the shelf, the poor people, right, the largest refinery in Bulgaria and in Southeast Europe. I want to correct you for the government's actions regarding Bulgaria's derogation for access to Russian oil. The initial analysis of the European Commission was that Bulgaria could manage literally after a month without Russian oil supplies and therefore Bulgaria was denied an initial derogation for two years to continue using Russian oil. Just because the European Commission's analyses and many experts in the field showed that if we went all Brent and alternative supplies, the price difference would be about 1% up, i.e. it wouldn't be any significant of the differences at the moment. The government is not lobbying, as you said about this derogation, on the contrary, along with the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary have threatened to block the decision of the European Council on the sixth collection package to Russia. They said: we will not approve the sanction for Russia if you do not approve of derogations and continue to use the next two years of Russian oil, this was the position of the Republic of Bulgaria. The opinion of the European Commission at the time was that Bulgaria has ports and Bulgaria has where to import alternative supplies and therefore Bulgaria cannot be included in this derogation, but allowed a derogation for the three central European countries that are domestic in the continent and do not have access to port. However, despite the views of the European Commission, the Bulgarian government continued to insist and was submitted to COREPER "The Council of Permanent Representatives" that it would vote against sanctions for Russia unless we were allowed to use two more years of Russian oil that sells it to us at prices, such as Brent. So here I would like to correct you, this is not lobbying, it is threatening and boycotting the work of the European Council only and only Bulgaria to use Russian oil.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u179	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Come in for a second line, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dobrev, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in your speech you neglected to inform your colleagues about something else and to ask the head of the National Security Agency, who will also come to inform us of his reaction to our signal, which we have given in connection with the gas supply. To ask and remind that we expect another answer. Are we delivering Russian gas right now? Is Bulgaria still delivering Russian gas with a mediator and who is the mediator? How much money is lost and how much money is lost right now? How much does the government talk about one thing and do another? And remind them also, if you love, that there is nothing secret that does not become apparent, and in the coming months, our colleagues from "Keep the Change" will be amazed at what things they will learn about their own government.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u181	I again call for us to stick to the specific texts that we are discussing to a greater extent. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! To respected colleague Dobrev, I think we are in an election situation, but we need to be careful. First of all, in your management, colleagues from GERB, you did not take a single penny of profit tax from the same Neftohim. From this tribune I have come out repeatedly to ask both Mr. Goranov and other ministers why? With examples that it's the only refinery probably in the world that doesn't pay. And I explained why he wasn't paying and where the money was going. Now you are attacking on a problem that is absolutely unacceptable and contrary to market logic. No money goes anywhere. Every company that manufactures a product, it is looking for the cheapest raw material possible. Let me give you an example of housing. When you buy, do you want to drop the price if the steel is imported from China instead of Sweden? There's no such thing. The market economy puts pressure on everyone to look for cheaper raw materials. Nobody steals any... The DANS will laugh at you. But you actually know very well that you are using for political reasons, as you know perfectly well what the difference is. So, a refinery will bring oil wherever it wants. When the market recognizes four leva, there are no such imbeciles who will sell for three. They can sell for 3,90, 3,80, influence the market. So nobody steals anything, they get cheaper raw materials. Your question must be another one if this is the case and it is market logic, so you cannot attack anyone here, whether it is a foreign company or a Bulgarian company, it is absurd. Another question is whether they continue not to pay taxes, because if the raw material is cheaper and the gasoline production technologies do not have a qualitative difference that much in the world, would the question be the correct one? Do they still not pay taxes, or are they already paying? Because if the raw material is lower, the profit should be higher, shouldn't it? If they don't pay taxes, then not DANS, the NRA has to go check their profits. Because usually, colleagues, transfer pricing companies, if they are related to the oil wells in Russia, they will report a higher price of raw materials in order not to pay tax here. This is explained and very simple. So you can't look at the DANS. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Again, every producer is looking for the cheapest raw material. Go to the NRA and ask them if they pay taxes or don't pay taxes like you do for 12 years? Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u183	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. First I have to give the floor to Mr. Dobrev and then I'll give you the guide, Mr. Tsonev. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u184	I'll start backwards. Mr. Gechev, I agree with you that everyone is looking for cheaper raw material. However, I do not agree that Lukoil (Lukoil) has secured, in your words, a cheaper raw material. It was provided by Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev. And that's why I want the SANS to come to tell us what Assen Vassilev's motive is, what is his interest, if you want Assen Vassilev to provide cheaper raw material to.Lukoil Neftohim. Because, as my colleague Gajev correctly gave a retrospective, it was not lobbying, it was a threat, we can even say blackmail to the European Commission. The Bulgarian government went there and said: "Don't you give us a derogation from which, Mr. Gechev, in your words, wins Lukoil Neftohim. Then we will block the sanctions against Russia. In other words, the Bulgarian government blackmailed. What is the interest of the Bulgarian consumer if the prices will be the same, as if there is no exception and as if we are buying the Brent variety? Mr. Cholakov, you are right about the gas signal, because when it comes to gas, the government fought in the chest of a press conference and said: "We are the hawks of Europe and now you will see what is going on, we will not take another cubic gas from Russia, because it would finance the war in Ukraine. So, on the one hand, when we buy oil, we pay the Russian companies, this money doesn't finance the war, but the money they give for the gas, they finance the war! I mean, when it comes to gas, we're hawks, and when it comes to oil, I'm not gonna define who we are.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u185	Pigeons.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u186	Mr. Chairman, I do consider that we are in the National Assembly, otherwise I would say what we look like in this situation. I mean, I'm really, I'm repeating my procedural proposal again, and you're right, Mr. Chairman, to call the head of the NSA and have him come here. Here, the BSP said that one lev goes somewhere, but we heard from the Change, we heard from the DPS, we heard from GERB and from the Democratic Bulgaria, as far as I understand that we all have doubts where 3 and a half billion go. If they're going to Swiss accounts, where does that three and a half billion go? Are they going to offshores, whose offshores are these, why the Bulgarian consumer is being harmed? And last thing, Mr. Gechev, you are always talking about taxes, and the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria likes to talk about taxes. Why doesn't Lukoil pay taxes over the years? However, I would like to point out to you that the taxes that Lukoil (Lukoil) pays or does not pay are not mistaken in the pocket of the Bulgarian consumer, while one lev on top of the fuel is wrong in the pocket of every Bulgarian consumer. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u187	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. I think you can submit a motion for a hearing. It's not that easy to call and yell... [[National Representative Georgi Ganev wants the floor for procedure.]] Wait a minute. First, Mr. Tsonev asked for a procedure. Listen, if it's not the same, I'll give it to you and then to Mrs. Ninova. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madame and Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Chairman, to you in the manner of conduct. By § 23, which we are discussing, the speeches had nothing to do with the paragraph, with very few exceptions. It's about some spare capacity in the warehouses and it has nothing to do with the rest of the speeches. My request to you is not to make remarks, but to stop directly because it is 1 pm and we are nowhere else with the budget. There's a deputy prime minister here who says, both deputy prime ministers even that we're slowing down on the budget, pensions are waiting, because the transfer is in the central budget, even though we accepted the DEA, the business is waiting and so on. It is a separate issue that the executive, when making remarks to the National Assembly to compress its actions regarding the adoption of the budget, should know perfectly well that the most compressed procedure is three weeks, and not to submit the budget on June 8th, and to turn from the media to the MPs, that they used procedures and I do not know what they did not do, were hardly slackers and so on, this was a story of another prime minister, but such suggestion had, and had brought it two weeks earlier. Because nothing's bothering me, since February there's been a budget update. Well, you import it on May 25th or 26th, and it would already be there. We're moving in the fastest possible rhythm. The Budget Committee works 13 hours a day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u189	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u190	No, I'm sorry, I'm using the procedure for you to address...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u191	Yes, because now you are speaking to the ministers, they will have to answer you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u192	Well, that's because you can see there's been a mix-up. Here, the Minister of Finance is here. The Budget Committee can't work 13 hours because the pensioners are jackals. Well, they're waiting, because the budget you brought in was hugely late. And we are now working 15 hours and making human mistakes. Isn't that right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u193	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. I have asked my colleagues to really stick to the text several times, but if I start interrupting, they will start some procedures and we will lose more time. I therefore hope that we can really get back to the texts discussed. This is still a discussion at second reading. General political and academic discussions are not inherent in reading text at second reading. Here you are, Mr. Ganev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. My procedure is in favour of what Mr. Tsonev has said to stop the discussions on this paragraph, at all, under this group of paragraphs which Mr. Kariminski read, and to proceed to the vote, because no sentence under these paragraphs is spoken from here anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u195	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. It doesn't have anyone else to sign up for it. Does anyone have a great desire to speak? I don't think so. I can close the discussion on these paragraphs, but we're not going to vote, we'll do it after the break. I now give the floor to Mrs. Ninova. On the budget, Mrs. Ninova, so we know? Yeah, well, then it won't have to do with the groups. Here you go. Then I press the button to bring in my colleagues for the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and especially honourable Members of the National Assembly! I address you as Minister of Economy and the resigning industry. Since yesterday, since the state budget at second reading is being examined, all employers' organizations... micro, small, medium-sized companies, their associations have called me with concern that all three proposals in the state budget, which concern aid for the economy and business, have not been accepted at second reading in the Commission. I appeal to you with an appeal find a reasonable solution not to leave the economy without support. You all know what a political situation we are in. You all know what we are on the threshold of autumn and winter. So far, the government has found a way to support the Bulgarian business with compensation for the price of energy carriers every month. At the moment, with what is happening and with the rejection of all the proposals, we are putting the economy at risk for the coming months. This means upcoming bankruptcys, rising unemployment, social worries of many households. I am here on their behalf, I am authorized on their behalf to address the MPs and call on you to find a solution between the three or fourth if you find, but in the budget of second reading to lay support for the Bulgarian business. This is an investment in predictability, in calmness of the economy, in keeping jobs and in ensuring security for the next difficult months in front of Bulgaria. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. [[National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski wants the floor.]] About what?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u198	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u199	All right, here we go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman! It's the way it's supposed to be. Please do not allow such morale on the part of Deputy Prime Minister Ninova to us as... [[Heckling]] Well, you asked us, but you didn't enter anything, Mrs. Ninova, not you, not anyone from the coalition has entered a clear and clear proposal. Let's be clear about this thing. [[Deputy Prime Minister Cornelia Ninova comes out of plenary.]] Three days of texts are made, three days of texts are thought out without specifics in the texts by the coalition. I'm asking you to be correct. And when you say you're very concerned about business, you come out of the room with all your concern! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u201	Mr. Karimansky... [[People from different parliamentary groups want the floor for procedure.]] One moment, now, you don't have to line up for a procedure. Please, the procedure, if it's going to be the way it's going to be, really get... Yeah, but you're talking to... [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Ninova can speak at any time, you know very well. When we get to the relevant points, you will say what you have to say. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The situation is what the ruling coalition made it. And the pathos with which Mrs. Ninova addressed the entire hall, including you, Mr. President, as the MP, should be clear to the Bulgarian citizens and business that in this situation the government resigned us, in which Mrs. Nino is Deputy Prime Minister. Because yesterday at the Budget Commission debate, it became clear from employers' organizations and from all municipalities that there were talks on May 16th. The government should once again try to bring down all responsibility in this Chamber if it is impossible to make adequate management decisions, so we are at this halyard and perhaps the government's resignation. Because Mrs. Ninova conveniently missed the moment when she did not say what the government had proposed to solve this problem in order to find adequate compliance on the part of the municipalities' request for compensation, including kindergartens, hospitals and all small businesses in the chain, which in Bulgaria will remain without adequate support from the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u203	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov, we'll get to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u204	And just to stress what Mr. Karimanski said, with just one addition, that there are texts that were not supported yesterday by the Commission, submitted by GERB-SDS, imported by Mr. Karimanski, by Mr.... I forgot who, by..We continue the Change. So Mrs. Nino said there were three proposals, and there were four. Unfortunately, no such decision has been made by the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers has been in meetings for a month and a half, having talks with employers' organizations, but there is no solution to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u205	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You do lines on Nino, you don't make procedural proposals. [[Noise and lines.]] It is very easy to abuse the Rules, but I still call for us to stick to it as much as possible. What the government did or didn't do, the address was for us to try to find a solution, because in the end... [[Noise and lines.]] Don't yell at me, I'm entitled to an answer, okay? After all, the final decision is made here in the hall. Just so you know, at the Chairman's Council this morning, we also commented on this issue. We'll try to find a solution if we can. We have to make this effort. That was the essence of what Ninova said. I don't think there's anyone who disagrees with the nature. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u206	Mr. Chairman, it's just the way we're running it. It is not normal to allow a minister to speak, who, in all his presence, let me not become sharp, misled the entire National Assembly, because when he was saying, he was calling, speaking on behalf of the whole business, she failed to mention, however, that exactly three proposals for business compensation were discussed yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u207	Mr. Ganev, you're speaking again in Mrs. Ninova's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u208	That's right. You allowed it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u209	There's no such procedure. I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u210	You allowed this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u211	You abuse the possibility of making procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u212	No, Mr. Chairman, you allowed it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u213	I allowed it because the Minister has the right to take the floor at any time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u214	The ruling coalition voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u215	I take your word for it, Mr. Ganev. Enough! [[(Replication by National Representative Nastimir Ananiev:]] Let's move on to the vote. We understand what you're saying, as long as we're wasting the National Assembly's time. We will get to this discussion, you will have the opportunity to say everything you need to say in the necessary procedures. All right, we're going to vote. Firstly, we are voting on § 19, on which the Commission supports the text in principle, but proposes to reject it as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 18. The Commission proposes to reject, i.e. a vote to mean dropping the text as it is already reflected. Please, voting mode. Vote 228 MPs: 228, no opposition and no abstentions. They're all for, it rarely happens. The proposal is accepted, that is, the paragraph is rejected. I am now putting to the vote § 20 and § 21 because, on a proposal from the Commission, they must be dropped because they are reflected in § 18. The voting Vote 229 MPs: for 228, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I am now voting § 22 in the version of the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 228 MPs: 228, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We move on to a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 23. Vote 230 MPs: for 230, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Then there are several proposals that are supported by the Commission and we come to a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Ganev and Lubomir Karimanski, which ends in 211. It is not supported by the Commission, so we are voting on it. Cancel the vote, let's hear Mr. Tsonev have some clarification. This text, Mr. Tsonev? Yes, come on in, but let's not reopen the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u216	No, we're not gonna find anything. Mr. Ganev and Karimanski's proposal, the next proposal and the next one, are, in fact, related to the proposal adopted in § 23, by importer from the first to the fifth subparagraph, to drop out, the Commission agreed to drop out. If they drop out, those time limits that you are currently voting on do not make sense to vote, because if the House accepts the proposal that the Commission has adopted to drop from 1st to 5th, these deadlines concern the dropped paragraphs from 1st to 5th. Therefore, not first the proposals for the time limits, but first the Commission's proposal from the first to the fifth member to be dropped. It is a proposal tabled by me and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. If it is supported by the House, the time limits are not voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u217	Which proposal are you talking about, Mr. Tsonev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u218	For the removal of § 23, para. 1 to 5 supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u219	Which page is that?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u220	Page 82 at the bottom is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u221	That's §26?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u222	Paragraph 23. It's a signature 00-90, 256. This proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u223	Okay. That is, let us now vote first on the Commission's proposal on the importer, and if it is adopted, then there is no point in voting on these deadlines. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u224	That's right. [[Reply from the hall: "Yes. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u225	I get it. Okay. We then move on to a vote on the Commission's proposal under § 23, which becomes 24. I think everyone voted. Abort the vote. [[Replying from the hall: "No. "]] It's a rewording, but I still want to announce this. Vote 230 MPs: 118, against 109, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please re-vote. Vote 230 MPs: 117 against 110, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I mean, now there's no point in voting on those two. [[(Reply by National Representative Yordan Tsonev:]] I get it, thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Two more votes remain a proposal by the Commission to reject § 24, right, because there are no such points. There is one proposal that we should have voted on, and I must still put it to the vote. It is of Venice Angova under § 23. This is the proposal, which is on page 82, the signature ends at 249. Point 4 has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the proposal, but I must put it to the vote, says colleagues here from the administration, and I suppose the House will reject it. I put to the vote this proposal of Venice Angova. The Commission does not support it. Vote 228 MPs: for 103, against 116, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote. Vote 231 MPs: 107 against 117 abstentions 7. The offer is not accepted. Paragraph 24. The Commission proposes to reject § 24. Please vote in favour of rejection, vote in favour. Vote 229 MPs: 144, against 84, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. And the last text under § 25, the Commission proposes to reject it. Please, the voting regime that wants to reject the paragraph to vote on. Vote 230 MPs: 119, against 109, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. [[Reply.]] Please re-vote. Vote 230 MPs: 118, against 111, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. That is why we adopted the last paragraph that has been discussed. I'm giving it till 2:00, but we'll start right. [[(Replication of the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev: We did not vote for an extension of time.]] Colleagues, please come back, excuse me, because we have to vote on an extension of time. [[Reply from DPS: "After the holiday. "]] No one thought of it, because it's up to 2:00 a.m. in general. Someone has to make the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u226	I'm doing it until the entire budget is complete.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u227	The closest is Mr. Tsonev asking for an extension of time, but how long?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u228	Until the point is complete.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u229	Mr. Tsonev proposes that we extend the time until the budget is completed. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u230	We're gonna be a little disciplined, guys, let's face it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u231	Colleagues, we can always call this meeting off if we get very tired. But let's not have a discussion. The proposal was made. [[Reply of MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Actually, come on in, because the microphone hasn't made a suggestion yet. Here you go, civil Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u232	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we at the Presidential Council have discussed how long Parliament will work, and I think we have decided, by consensus, that it will be up to 20 o'clock. So I'm doing the opposite of yours or...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u233	No, just do it, there was nothing else.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u234	I propose that we meet until 20:00 with a point... The State Budget Act at the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u235	Thank you. So, I'll make it up to 20, or until it's over, if it's over sooner.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u236	I said, up to 20 for this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u237	Yeah, yeah, I got it. I was just kidding if we could finish this before 20. [[Radio.]] I put to the vote Mrs. Atanasova's proposal to extend the time, to work on this point until 20:00 today. And you know, before 20, we can extend more. [[Heckling]] Please, voting mode. Vote 213 MPs: 203, against 6, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Now I'm taking another break, but it's 2:00 a.m. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u238	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor. We continue with § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u239	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Under § 26, there is a proposal of the National Representative Venice Angova and a group of MPs ending 249: "1." In § 26, t. Art. 3, Art. 2, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, 182c, para. 1, the words in the amount determined by a decree of the Minister of Finance shall be replaced by a amount of more than 100 BGN............................................................................................................. 2. In § 26, t. Art. 3, Art. 2, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, 182d, t. 5 words within the meaning of art. 11 of the Public Finance Act is deleted. 3. In § 26, t. Art. 3, Art. 182e is amended as follows: ..................................................... 182e. (1) The Minister of Finance, on a proposal from the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency and the Director of the Customs Agency, shall issue a decree setting out: 1. the procedure for registration and de-registered of authorised employees of the persons referred to in art. 182a, para. 1 in the information system under art. 182a, para. 5; 2. the terms, procedures and time limits for sending notifications by the persons referred to in art. 182a, para. 1 and obtaining confirmations and acts from the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency. 3. the terms, terms and conditions for sending confirmations and/or acts by the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency. 4. The automated checks by the information system under art. 182a, para. 5; 5. the samples referred to in art. 182 a.m., 182 a.m. 4. In § 26, t. 4 in art. Art. 278d, Art. Art. 278f. 278g all over the world the words........................................................................................................................... is............................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs § 26 to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 26 be rejected. Proposal of the MP Plamen Abrovski and Lyubomir Karimanski. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Snezhanka Trayanska, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Desislava Taneva, Maria Belova and Irena Dimova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. The following amendments shall be made to § 9 of the transitional and final provisions: 1. In para. 1 the words "30 June 2022" shall be replaced by "31 December 2026." 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. Under § 27, there is a proposal of the National Representative Yordan Tsonev and a group of Members of the National Assembly to dismiss § 27. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 27 be rejected. Under § 28, there is a proposal of the National Representative Venice Angova and a group of Members of Parliament to amend the texts of § 28 as follows: ....... 28........................................... 28 (1) Persons registered on the basis of Decision No 592 of the Council of Ministers of 2018 on the terms and conditions for the payments of contracts orders by budget in the information system under point (c) of paragraph 1. 3 of the decision shall be deemed to be registered in the information system under art. 182a, para. 5 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. (2) Unregistered in the information system under art. 182a, para. 5 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code persons under art. 182a, para. 1 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code shall be registered no later than one month after the entry into force of the ordinance under art. 182e of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs § 28 to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 28 be rejected. Under § 29, there is a proposal of the National Representative Venice Angova and a group of Members of Parliament to amend the texts of § 29 as follows: ........................ 29...................................................... Chapter twenty-one of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code shall also apply to contracts in force on 1 January 2023 and filed before that date, such as the persons referred to in Article 1. 182a, para. 1 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code shall notify them at the same time as the first notification of pending payment under those contracts and implementing list, but no later than 90 days after 1 January 2023 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Yordan Tsonev and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 29 be rejected. According to § 30, there is a proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs to drop § 30. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 30 be rejected. Proposal of the MP Ilin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. ................................................ In the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 204 para. 1, t. 2 (b) after the word "food" the following is added: 2. In Part of the??????????.?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 1 after the word "food" is added to the tourist services within the meaning of the Law on Tourism. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 2, p. 6 after the word "food" is added "travel services"; 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 2, p. 6, b. the following is added after the word "food': 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 2, p. 6, b. the following is added after the word "food': 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 2, p. 6, b. the following is added after the word "food': 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 2, p. 6, b. the following is added after the word "food': 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 2, p. 6, b. the following is added after the word "food': 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 3, p. 4 everywhere after the word "food" is added to the tourist services. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 7 after the word "food', the added "travel services' is "travel services'; 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 8 all over after the word "food" is added to the tourist services. 13. In Chapter twenty-nine, the sentence adds a tax base for the social costs of vouchers for food vouchers after the word "food'. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 277a, para. 1 everywhere after the word "food" is added to the tourist services. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 277a, para. 2 everywhere after the word "food" is added to the tourist services. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 277a, para. 3 everywhere after the word "food" is added to the tourist services. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 277b after the word "food" is added "travel services"; 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 277c everywhere after the word "food" is added The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Desislava Atanasova, Nikolina Angelkova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: A new § 31 shall be established in the Transitional and Final Provisions as follows: ........................ 31...................................................... In the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 204 para. 1, t. 2, b. The following is added after the word "food" and tourist services within the meaning of the Law on Tourism: 2. In the part of it, the tax on costs and expenditures, Chapter Twenty-eighths, General situations, in the sentence, "Freedom of taxation of social costs for food vouchers', after the word "food', is added and the tourist services within the meaning of the Tourism Act. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 1 after the word "food" is added to the tourist services within the meaning of the Law on Tourism. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 2, p. 6 after the word "food" is added to the tourist services within the meaning of the Law on Tourism. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 2, p. 6, b. After the word "food" is added "travel services" within the meaning of the Law on Tourism. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 2, p. 6, b. After the word "food" is added, "holiday services" within the meaning of the Law on Tourism are added; 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 2, p. 6, b. After the word "food" is added, "holiday services" within the meaning of the Law on Tourism are added; 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 2, p. 6, b. After the word "food" is added "holiday services" within the meaning of the Law on Tourism. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 2, p. 6, b. After the word "food" is added "travel services" within the meaning of the Law on Tourism. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 3, p. 4 everywhere after the word "food" is added to the tourist services within the meaning of the Law on Tourism. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 7 after the word "food" is added to the tourist services within the meaning of the Law on Tourism. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 8 anywhere after the word "food" is added to the tourist services within the meaning of the Law on Tourism. 13. In Chapter Twenty-nine, the sentence adds a tax base for the tax on social costs for vouchers for food vouchers and after the word "food" the tourist services within the meaning of the Law on Tourism are added; 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 277a, para. 1 all the way after the word "food" is added to the tourist services within the meaning of the Law on Tourism. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 277a, para. 2 all over after the word "food" is added and "travel services" within the meaning of the Law on Tourism. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 277a, para. 3 everywhere after the word "food" is added to the tourist services within the meaning of the Law on Tourism. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 277b after the word "food" is added to the tourist services within the meaning of the Law on Tourism. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 277c everywhere after the word "food" is added "visual services" within the meaning of the Law on Tourism. The current paragraphs 31 and 32 become 32 and 33. The Commission does not support the proposal. Under § 31, there is a proposal of the National Representative Venice Angova and a group of MPs: In § 31, the words shall be published within three months of the entry into force of § 26. 3 "5" shall be replaced by " 31 December 2022" The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs § 31 to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 31 be rejected. Proposal of the MP Iva Miteva and a group of MPs: In the transitional and final provisions, § 31a is created: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "It is the Bible, and the Bible says: "The Bible says: "It is the Bible. " In the Law on Taxes on Income of Individuals (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 29, para. 1 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The following points shall be (d) income from the exercise of a free profession as a lawyer. (d) 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 after the word "Profession" shall be added other than that referred to in paragraph 3. 2 (a) (d) The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Petar Petrov, ending 212: "1." The paragraph to be repeated after renumbering is amended as follows: I'm sorry, In § 15 in relation to the CFD, § 2 of the State Budget Act for 2022 is created a point with the following text: In the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, in art. 29, para. 1, t. 2 a new letter is created: (d) income from the pursuit of a profession as a lawyer. (d) 14.2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 a comma shall be placed after the words "free profession' and the text "except for a profession as a lawyer' shall be added. 2. The last § 32 to date becomes § 33. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Iva Miteva and a group of MPs: In the transitional and final provisions, § 31b and § 31c are established: ............................................................................... In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 61c, para. 1 after the word "supplier', the following shall be added after 30 June of the previous year and after the word "supplier'. § 31c. The amount of tourist tax for 2023 under art. 61c, para. 1 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees is determined until 30 September 2022 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Vladimir Marinov, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The Council of Ministers may approve additional transfers under the budget of the National Insurance Institute for 2022 of up to 5,500,0 thousand. lv. in the order of art. 109, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act to increase staff costs. (2) The increase shall be at the expense of the budgetary relationship between the central budget and the budget of the state social security under art. 1, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u240	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion on the texts read by Mr. Karimanski. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Speeches.. Ilin Dimitrov and Mrs. Angelkova afterwards. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u241	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Members! For several years, food vouchers have also been commented to apply to tourist services. So far, really, until this meeting, no political will was found for this, and these intentions remained only on paper. I would like to thank everyone who has supported this initiative. As you can see, similar proposals have been made by IHN and colleagues from GERB. With this, I think this measure will become over-party, as many parties support it. In fact, it will enable potential use of up to 1 billion. lv. for tourist services and is the first step towards defining individual vouchers with a separate budget specifically for the sector. I would also like to remind you that we have changed the scope of existing vouchers. We don't want any more money, and that's within the limits of what's allowed. According to the Horwath HTL study, one euro in prevention saves 7 euros for treatment. And I personally believe and I am convinced that this way we will have more rested, happier, healthier and more able fellow citizens. This measure is, of course, in sync with the signed Coalition Agreement, which will remind us that several things have been fulfilled. Emergency measures have been continued. Unfortunately, today the majority did not support the remaining 9% of wine and soft drinks. I personally voted to keep it. The advertising budget has also increased. Measure 35 euros shall be corrected. For the first time since the start of the casket we have been able to help the hoteliers and this is the measure 40 BGN. To a person. That's on me. I sincerely hope that you will support this measure and food vouchers will also apply to tourist services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u242	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any lines, coworkers? I won't. Mrs. Angelkova, you have a say in this, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I also hope that you will support our proposal, which, like the proposal put forward by "We are continuing the Change" by Ilin Dimitrov and a group of MPs, is related to extending the scope of vouchers to be used for tourist services as well. I think that this is extremely important in order to support the sector and I am truly sorry that when the rate of 9% of VAT is voted on in relation to the sector I am pleased that he personally voted for, but, unfortunately, this was obviously not enough to be able to adopt this measure, which proved its action. With the expansion of the range of food vouchers to be used and for tourist services, it is possible for people who enjoy this right to have the opportunity to choose, and I am convinced that this will prove their action and find its longer-term use. With the industry's representatives, we have been working in this direction since 2015, and I am really glad that in the budget update it finds its application and will be supported by the requests that are being made at the moment, I hope, by all the political forces, so that we can further help restore the sector to the expectations, as I have also expressed in my previous statement,........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Tourism needs support not only in words but also in real action. I am glad that at least this will happen because, unfortunately, the resignation government has not done enough not to say anything about this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Are there any lines, coworkers? Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u245	Dear Mrs. Angelkova. I've heard a few times that we don't do anything about tourism, and I'd like to object with a few of the facts that have happened, a few of the things. It's not election, it's okay. Emergency measures have been continued. I think those were your measures that we recognized. The budget was increased by 2 million for advertising. It's never been this much of a publicity budget. The Institute of Innovation was founded again point of the Coalition Agreement. We also corrected a measure that was stopped. 35 euros in a seat that was broken in the last parliament. For the first time since the start of the Kovid there was a measure for hoteliers 40 BGN. In bed, you know very well. The total amount of the funds paid is planned to be around 170 million. lv. There's never been a measure for hoteliers during a Kovid. This helped the business, kept jobs and managed to survive the crisis. Work was started on a single branch organization law and a new tourism law was started. There are over 300 participants in eight working groups. If that's nothing, I wouldn't agree. I want to give some numbers, since I have two minutes. Currently, according to data from the airports we have the following indicators - 175% growth of passengers compared to last year for Varna and 861% growth for Burgas; 145% increased aircraft movements for Burgas and 75% for Varna; in Burgas we reach 3750 flights per month, or 125 flights per day. This, honourable Members, is 30% more than the forecasts we made in March. The Branch has begun to stabilize, and, frankly, to me, it is a lie that nothing is done, and thick-skinned is not admitting a solution to the complicated problem. Tourism is developing positively. Rescue is the extension of the season, improvement of infrastructure and effective advertising. All the things we've worked hard for for the six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u246	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. For a line? Mr. Nikolov is for the second line and Mr. Mitev is for the third.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Angelkova, dear colleagues! To return the debate on the topic... precisely about vouchers in the field of tourist services. My line is this. Do we take the tourist voucher as a bonus? If it is a bonus, we also give the employer the opportunity to choose the different motivational instruments with regard to staff, because I have always said that each of us, when making decisions relating to the management of this public portfolio, such as public resources, must at least once have signed a payment order, salary or social security on our own behalf and on our own account. Therefore, I think that the motivation of the teams is very important and we need to give employers the opportunity to assess how they will motivate their staff with food vouchers or we will add holiday vouchers. You know the voucher is recommended, it's a bonus. The employer shall assess exactly how this option will be used. I think it's also for the benefit of business other than the tourist sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u248	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Mr. Honest Mitev wanted a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u249	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Angelkova! I just want to make an addition that you seem to have missed. This is rejected in this part of the budget, but is dealt with later. The measure, in order to extend the scope of the vouchers, has been adopted by the Commission under paragraph 1. 2 of § 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u250	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. You have the floor for the back, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't understand Mr. Mitev's line because we know it's on there. However, we are currently looking at other paragraphs and those that concern our proposals for CDCs, where food vouchers are arranged. Regarding Mr. Dimitrov's line. I think he's the only one who thinks the industry is being assisted. Perhaps he is obliged to do so because the government in resignation is leaving, it is not clear how long the life of this Parliament will be and yet must clearly take account of some activity as chairman of the permanent Committee on Tourism. But if he makes a brief reference to the industry's demands, to their requests, intentions, protest actions that they have expressed, there is a huge gap between what he claims is done in 6 months and what the industry expects, and the measures that are being adopted should be directed only to the industry. Apart from what a larger advertising budget, it is only increased by 2 million. lv.? I do not understand what this advertisement is, for which no public procurement has been found, but only direct negotiation with television and radio, because this allows the Law on Radio and Television, so that they can report on the basis of impressions accordingly. But whether all people who watch TV will go to the Bulgarian sea, no one can say. There is absolutely no clear vision and advertising strategy covering the entire media mix and ensuring the recovery of results and reaching the 2019 levels and greater. So, Mr. Dimitrov, I'm glad you appreciate your work so much, but the work we do is appreciated by the people, by the voters, and in the case of the industry, and their assessment is weak (2) for the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u253	Oh, Mr. Petrov, I'd like you to come and visit me. I'm sorry, but Mr. Petrov had asked me to record it. Here you are, Mr. Petrov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u254	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Both in February and now we have made an offer and we have made one that we want the statutory expenses of lawyers to increase from 25 to 40%. Both then and now we have motivated our proposal with the socio-economic situation in the country, which I guess for everyone it becomes clear that it does not support a constitutionally guaranteed profession. A profession that helps protect the rights, interests and freedoms of all citizens. Unfortunately, both in February and now in the Budget Committee, I have heard a motivation not to accept this proposal only because it constituted unlawful State aid. I would like to remind and quote both to the Minister and to all Members of Parliament § 1, item 1. 7 of the Additional Provisions of the State Aid Act, where the definition of State aid is: Any aid falling within the scope of art. 107 § 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, granted by the State or by the Municipality, or at the expense of State or municipal resources, directly or through other persons in any form which distorts or threatens to distort free competition by favouring certain undertakings We lawyers don't fall under art. 2 of the Commercial Law and we're not merchants. We do not provide either commercial services or we are business undertakings. We're not such subjects. In this regard, I believe that such a motivation that both the increase in statutoryly recognised costs from 25 to 40%, as for both the remuneration and income from picking herbs and mushrooms, do not constitute unlawful State aid. Next. Both in February and now I remind you that such a measure, first of all, will not affect to any significant extent the budget. It does not constitute a direct granting of funds, as we are talking about a tax amount to be taxed and this measure will also bring out a grey sector, if any. I therefore believe that the adoption of such a proposal will by nothing damage the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria and, in the present case, its update. On the contrary, such a proposal will help the activities of a guild of over 14 thousand. people who, I repeat, do not engage in business are not undertakings within the meaning of the State Aid Act and will not benefit at the expense of other financial entities. On the contrary, people who protect your rights and interests will be able to cope with rising inflation, rising prices and will be able to organise better their activities so that they can remain in our Bulgarian society, to be able to carry out their activities, which is recognised by the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to be able to have a decent future for themselves and for the honour of our legal profession. This is precisely why I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, this time to support this proposal, as we believe that the increase in the statutory expenses of the legal profession from 25 to 40% will only help the development of justice in Bulgaria and will, of course, also contribute to much more prepared, qualified and professional personnel who will replace us one day, life and health in this building and in this Chamber. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u255	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Terziysky. Colleagues, let me just say that I've stopped the discussion, and once we've turned this cycle of lines and duplicates, we'll move on to a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u256	Mr. Petrov, I have a question for you: why are some free professions more free than other professions? After all, there are architects, there are engineers, there are other jobs available, which in this case... There are notaries here, Mr. Matteev raises his hand. So when we talk here about certain professions, it's absolute lobbying, it's not protecting free professions as a whole, it's looking at a private interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u257	Thank you, Mr. Terziysky. Are there any other lines, colleagues? A hole, Mr. Petrov? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u258	Dear colleague Terziyski, it is nice when you make such passionate questions from the stands, before you get acquainted with the legal and constitutional requirements that are put before the lawyers' activities, the need for them to make the necessary costs so that they can be allowed to carry out their activities at all. Unlike other free professions, colleague Terziyski, lawyers should have an office, have staff, use software, retrain and increase their training and, of course, their experience. For all of this, including the compulsory insurance that we need to make, the compulsory insurance that the coalition represented by you is constantly raising by raising the minimum wage, and also the amount of monthly insurance that we are paying is all the financial parameters that no one is thinking about, unfortunately, and no one is taking any attitude, and if we don't, we lawyers can't exercise our activities. It is because of this reason that the costs for the exercise of this activity, which I repeat, is not a business activity, it is an activity of protection of the rights and interests of citizens, unlike other free professions, precisely to ensure the operation of this constitutional activity, which protects your rights and freedoms, which is precisely why the lawyer's guild needs support, and it does not support in the benefit of some money to give the lawyers, but only and only to help them meet these financial challenges, which in the last year have greatly aggravated the problems of carrying out the legal activity in Bulgaria. That is why I would ask you, when you ask such questions, at the very least to prepare what costs lawyers perform so that they can be allowed to carry out this activity at all and then ask about other professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u259	And thank you, Mr. Petrov. Dear colleagues, we have a missing group. Maybe we should give them a chance to get in the room after all. [[Noise and lines.]] Honourable Members, we are going to vote. First of all, I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Venice Angova and a group of MPs with a signature ending at 249, which concerns § 26 and is not supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. Vote 204 MPs: 87, against 116, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. [[Heckling]] It's a re-vote. Please, voting mode. Vote 205 MPs: 86, against 118, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 26 to be rejected. [[Heckling]] We're in a voting procedure, Mr. Sabrutev. After that, I'll give you the floor of procedure. 200 MPs voted: 116, against 78, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I request a re-vote procedure, I would like to ask for a 30-minute break on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u261	Colleagues, I'm giving it till 3:15. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u262	Colleagues, I ask you to take your seats so that we can proceed to the vote on the texts in respect of which we have exhausted the discussion. Colleagues, I am questioning the Commission's proposal to reject § 26. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, we are still voting on the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. Such an attitude is extremely unacceptable. I don't really know how to qualify him. I call on you for the third time to remain silent and to proceed to the vote. They voted 225 MPs: 117, against 105, abstention 3. That's how the offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 25. Vote 227 MPs: 225, against 2 abstentions. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 27 to be rejected. Vote 229 MPs: 118, against 104, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u263	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u264	Please, re-election mode. Vote 233 MPs: 120, against 104, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly Venice Angova and a group of Members of the National Assembly, ending at 249, which concerns § 28, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 230 MPs: for 110, against 120, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 28. Vote 233 MPs: 119, against 110, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Popov, are you here for procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u265	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 and 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we propose that a hearing be held within the framework of today's meeting of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Cyril Petkov and the Chairman of the State Agency This proposal has also been submitted in writing to the National Assembly. Please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u266	Mr. Popov, is there an appointment for this hearing to take place?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u267	Within today's meeting, immediately, if possible. [[Noise and lines.]] Of course, the meeting should be held at a closed door.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u268	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mrs. Atanasova for procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, in part I support the proposal of my colleague Popov, but I insist that the hearing in closed session be from 18:00 to 20:00, as we have voted to continue this sitting. You have all convinced us that the budget is the most important, both the opposition and its participation would be due to its non-acceptance, I appeal now to work under the State Budget Act until 6:00 p.m. and from 18:00 p.m. to 20:00 p.m. or, if necessary by later, to meet on the draft of colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Gurov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I suggest we make a compromise. There was a desire to work earlier today until the adoption of the budget, a little tighter, more organised. I suggest we work on the budget by 20:00. We do have very important points to accept, including electricity aids for business. [[noise and lines]] , let's get ready to accept them by 20, and then at 20, let's do the emergency meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u272	Mr. Dobrev, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u273	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I don't understand what this discrimination is. I also suggested a procedure two hours ago for the head of the NSA to explain one lev. Who's taking that left? Where's the money going from the Swiss firm? No one thought about my procedure and put it to the vote. That is to say, I consider this to be discrimination. But since we're going to call the head of the NSA anyway, I suggest we bring him in on both subjects. And we'll support it. To say both about the expelled diplomats and the Swiss account with 3.5 billion per year of Bulgarian money. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u274	Okay, thank you, Mr. Dobrev, for this procedure that wasn't about to begin with. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our proposal is on a specific subject. For this topic to be... Do it separately. We agree on the 6:00 p.m. appointment, and I think it's a reasonable suggestion. However, on this particular topic, please put our proposal to a vote on both the Prime Minister and the Chairman of the State Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u276	Okay, guys. Thank you for these procedures. As soon as a proposal gets to me in writing, I'll decide whether or not to include it in the program for this week. Colleagues, we're continuing our budget. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u277	Dear Mr. Chairman! The Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) has submitted the proposal in writing in accordance with the Rules and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and you are obliged to put it to the vote. Unlike Mr. Dobrev, who resents that his is not subjected to it correctly because it is not submitted in writing. So the next time in writing at the Office and then on the stand, it is voted, and if accepted... is entered if it is not accepted................................................................................... is not entered......................................................................................................................................................... So, Mr President, I ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure and put the proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u278	Mr. Svilensky, which text of the Rules do you refer to as having to put it to the vote right away?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u279	It's written in the draft decision. I don't have it in front of me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u280	Colleagues, let's still... There are several texts to conclude the vote. A discussion will be opened. In the meantime, we will also resolve the matter with the hearing. There's a procedure. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] Lord Nenkov, this is the item for inclusion on the agenda. At present only the President may propose a item on the agenda. If someone points to a particular text that says something other than what I say, I'll agree. And I'm not saying I won't turn it on. I didn't say that! Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I suppose, Mr. Chairman, without seeing the draft decision of colleagues that they were based on art. 110 of our Rules of Procedure, namely: The National Assembly shall hold hearings on matters concerning state or public interests................................................................................................. You cannot seek synergies in GERB's parliamentary group and the proposal tabled by colleagues, because until 10 minutes ago they were your coalition partner and together you made the decisions. But in this case, Mr. Chairman, you're not doing the right thing. You must put to the vote their procedural proposal, which is highlighted by a written draft decision submitted to the Court of Justice in accordance with the rules and the Chamber to take a decision. Otherwise, Mr. Chairman, this is the second time you risk requesting your resignation. And I am convinced that the House will receive it if you have not learned the lessons we have already given to some of your colleagues. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u282	There is no way, Mrs. Atanasova, that I do not allow myself to congratulate you on this speech, because you will once again ask me for my resignation for following the Rules! So really, I congratulate you! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] If you knew the Rules well enough, you would know that a item on the agenda, as requested by BSP colleagues, is putting a item on the agenda and at the moment this can only be done by the President of the National Assembly at his discretion. He doesn't have to! And I didn't say I wouldn't do it, I said: let's vote on these texts and then I'll decide whether or not to include this point. [[National Representative Ivan Chenchev wants the floor.]] Mr. Bikoff is ahead of you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u283	Dear Mr. Chairman! Our parliamentary group didn't ask for such a hearing because we thought Mr. Petkov would come alone the whole time. And I hope he watches TV. That's a guy who kicked out 70 diplomats. This is the largest number in the history of the world of expelled diplomats.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u284	Mr. Bikov, you'll have a chance in a potential hearing...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u285	He's supposed to come here alone, not vote it out and you're not even supposed to be offering it. He must request to inform the highest authority in the state of what is happening. Because we heard in front of the journalists that you said a few sentences, and we don't know any of us know what happened. So the most normal thing is for him to come. And I'm using the procedure to invite him because we don't have to ask for a hearing at all, he has to come here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u286	All right, Mr. Bikov. Thank you. Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor for procedure. Colleagues, I remind you, however, that we are about to adopt the state budget, which leaves many texts. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now I will try to help you, as you are currently President of the Bulgarian National Assembly. Mr. President, this is a short time ago, which the colleague spoke about, namely: the expulsion of 70 diplomats to a country that is currently fighting a war, is a matter of national Bulgarian security. For this reason, in this House, he must come and report to the people's representation the head of the SANS what has been done in this matter, for what reasons? Because today we have a statement from the president who says there is no information about such a thing. And we need to find out if the head of the SANS has done his job to provide a report, because he knows that the President of the Parliament should receive it, Prime Minister and President. Did the president have information, didn't he have any, did the NSA provide it? Who did what? Therefore, Mr President, I think it is extremely important and it will be responsible on your part if you immediately put this to the vote, as it is about the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. There is no room for any quarrels here, and we just have to do our job in a responsible manner so that we can make an informed decision. Thank you for listening, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u288	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev, for your argument. Colleagues, let's get back to the texts we are about to vote on. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Venice Angova and a group of Members of Parliament, ending at 249, which concerns § 29 and is not supported by the Commission. Vote 231 MPs: 113, against 116, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 29. Vote 234 MPs: 121, against 110, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 30 to be rejected. Vote 228 MPs: 115 against 108 abstention 5. The motion is accepted. There's a request for a re-vote. Colleagues, we're overreacting. Vote 233 MPs: 121, against 110, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Elin Dimitrov, Bogomil Petkov, Georgi Stamov and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph, I suppose, as it is not specified in the Report, but certainly does not concern § 30 or § 31 which are by importer, which is not supported by the Commission, with an entry number ending in 195. We are voting on a proposal which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 176 MPs: 107 against 19, abstention 50. The motion is accepted. It's a revoting request. Colleagues, we're overreacting. They voted 173 MPs: 47, against 5, abstention 121. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Desislava Atanasova, Nikolina Angelkova, Krasen Kralev and a group of MPs ending 223, and it is for the creation of a new paragraph 31 and is not supported by the Commission. Vote 231 MPs: 77 against 107 abstentions 47. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Venice Angova and a group of MPs, ending in... There is a request to re-vote the previous proposal, fellow Members, so we are re-voting Mrs Atanasova's proposal to create a new paragraph 31, which is not supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. Vote 231 MPs: 77 against 104, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Venice Angova and a group of MPs ending 249. It concerns § 31 and is not supported by the Commission. Vote 231 MPs: 108, against 121, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 31. Vote 230 MPs: 107 against 120, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. Does anyone from the Budget and Finance Committee want to take the floor to explain exactly what happened so that we don't accept any texts that don't make sense before we move on to re-voting?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u289	Colleagues, I am proposing a re-voting proposal and I ask you to be careful of the order by rejecting something about DODK, to keep track, as one part of DODK may not be rejected, another part may not be rejected. That's why I'm asking you to keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u290	Here you go, Mr. Chobanov. And happy name day! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and happy name day to all today's celebrators, including those in this House! We are simply voting here on deadlines that we have nothing to apply to. That is to say, they are time limits to a paragraph that has already expired for the issue of a regulation which does not have the object of an area. So the most logical solution is to adopt this proposal, as these deadlines are not applicable in practice to reject the paragraph. As the paragraph is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Anybody else want to take a look at this? And now a request for a re-vote. We are revoting, fellow Members, the Commission's proposal to reject § 31. They voted 225 MPs: for 195, against 3, abstention 27. That's how the offer is accepted. Colleagues, we are going to vote on the proposal of MPs Iva Miteva and a group of MPs to create a new § 31a, which is not supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance, with No 210. They voted 219 MPs: 111, against 89, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, there's a request for a re-vote. Please, voting mode. They voted 216 MPs: for 110, against 84, abstention 22. That's how the offer is accepted. Mr. Petrov, would you like to take into account the next proposal concerning the same matter? If you'd like to come to the stands and let all your colleagues hear you, I think it's for the best.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u293	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As far as I understand it, the proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva and a group of MPs, as well as my next, are identical as text and content, and as far as I can see from the double vote, is that we have already accepted their proposal, it is pointless for me to vote my own too, which is why I am withdrawing, on the ground that this proposal has been left out.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u294	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. For Mr. Karimansky's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u295	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal, as it is not normal for this type of law to enter the middle or somewhere in the middle of the year, so that the voted proposal will enter into force as of 1 January 2023. Thank you. Please vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u296	Okay, Mr. Karimansky. Yeah, the last paragraph, there's gonna be... [[Noise and lines.]] Thank you, colleagues. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Iva Miteva and a group of MPs ending 218. It is requested to create new paragraphs 31b and 31c and is not supported by the Commission. Vote 215 MPs: 74, against 135, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote, my fellow Members, the Commission's proposal to create a new § 26. They voted 223 MPs: 223, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor to proceed from § 1. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u297	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u298	For the procedure, Mrs. Miteva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u299	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. President, you have made a commitment, after the vote on the texts is over, to move on to the proposal made by colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria. Here I will call on you to apply the Constitution directly. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 which has an immediate effect and reads: The National Assembly and the parliamentary committees can oblige ministers to attend their meetings and answer the questions asked. Separately, let me remind you that in this Parliament we have adopted one article. 111 on a proposal from colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" according to which the state authorities and officials are obliged to report to the National Assembly on request. Not only that, but to be legally responsible. So, Mr. President, I ask you very much to implement the Constitution and put this proposal to the vote. Moreover, according to para. 5, which you refer to, has really exceptionality. It says: "In exceptional cases... " I think there is no greater exclusivity than that. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u300	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. In response to your procedure I will say that yes, indeed art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 The Constitution says what you have read, but the Rules indicate the order.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u301	There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u302	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u303	This is not a hearing!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u304	Okay. The rules state the order and I have indicated the order. I didn't back out of my job, guys. However, I must check the possibility of them coming, what time they can come today or possibly tomorrow, and then I will put it to the vote. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Karimansky, please come in for the report. Colleagues, there's no point in wasting more time. We can settle this in 10 minutes. Let Mr. Karimansky continue with the report. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u305	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u306	If you're holding, please, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, I just had a procedure with such a proposal to set an appointment. I suggested that 18:00 be sufficient time for the persons we will hear to prepare for their presence in plenary and at that time be informed. The fact that you, Mr. Chairman, are violating the provisions of the Bulgarian Constitution does not surprise us at all! So in your parliamentary group, it's a relapse, I say it most responsiblely! But I have also warned you earlier that you are absolutely informally approaching a proposal from another parliamentary group that has highlighted its request in writing and on the basis of the Rules and the Constitution. I advise you to do the right thing. Let us begin this hearing at 6:00 a.m. in closed session, and until then, let us not waste plenary time and vote on the texts in the Budget Act. I believe that, otherwise, you very much risk that there is not enough order in plenary; secondly, there is a series of procedures from the various parliamentary groups; and last but not least, you risk that the State Budget Act will fail in its second reading. Once again, I invite you to show some sense. Let's schedule this hearing for 6:00 and work until then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u308	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I'm not breaking the Constitution, on the contrary. As I said, I will rule on the request and put it to the vote eventually. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Colleagues, whether there will be a series of procedures at the moment depends entirely on you. I told you: let's announce these paragraphs within 20 minutes and then I'll make a decision. I don't understand what else I have to tell you. You want to put the President under pressure again and under threat that the budget will not be adopted. [[speaking indistinctly]] Colleagues, if indeed for you, as we continue to change, the state budget is a priority, then you will not waste any time in plenary procedures. [[Noise in the room.]] Colleagues, I suggest we get back to budget. This point will be authorised within the next 15 minutes. Colleagues, I appeal, indeed. Mr. Karimansky. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u309	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u310	If the budget is not a priority for you, come on in. Let's waste more plenary time. We're listening, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u311	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, you're the first amongst the equal, and you can't tell us what to do. You're holding us out of the tribune of speeches about what we're supposed to do. The House wants to vote on something, you're interfering, you're violating the Constitution, and on top of that, you're explaining to us what we need to do!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u312	Mr. Yordanov, who has been thrown into the wind saying that I am violating the Constitution, does not make you right. I've explained what my considerations are. This is an item on the agenda and can only be included at the initiative of the President. I repeat, I didn't say I wouldn't turn it on. [[IHN lines]] I said 15 minutes. Mr. Chenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u313	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Here's our written proposal. [[Shows it.]] Here's the time of introduction to the Ministry of Industry. 15.30 p.m. It's been an hour. So, Mr. President, I think you have reason to let us vote, too, because this House really wants it to make a decision. And you, as the head of the meeting, must give this opportunity. Nothing more. No one has to. It is simply a decision that we must make as responsible people to listen to the Prime Minister and the President of the SANS in a closed session. Nothing more and the sooner the better. I think there's an hour and a half before 6:00 p.m. there's plenty of time to prepare the faces.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u314	Mr. Chenchev, thank you. You know perfectly well when this decision was reported to me. It wasn't an hour ago. It was about 25 minutes ago. It was 30 tops. If we didn't waste time in procedures, the matter could have been solved by now. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Gochev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to stress that it is clear that you have the power to vote on this point when you decide. It is also clear that by exercising this power, I hope that you will be able to explain this to the House that there are procedural and material rules in law. [[Voices: "Eee!" and laughter by GERB-SDS. Replies from the National Representative Iva Miteva.]] In this case, the Constitution tells us what the material norm is, and we already know what the procedural norm is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u316	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. Mr. Popov, come in. [[Loud noise. A line from the National Representative Denitsa Sacheva.]] I'm not losing it, Mrs. Sacheva. You're losing it in pointless procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u317	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, in order not to put you in an obvious uncomfortable position, I will refer to the direct and direct action of the Constitution. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2, according to which every Bulgarian citizen is obliged to appear on request in the Chamber of the National Assembly. I'm referring to her. I declare our wish and request at 18:00 today the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" to come to the plenary. Please call them from the National Assembly and have them invited here at 18:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u318	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u319	Dear Mr. Chairman... [[Noise and lines. MPs from GERB-SDS and DPS stand next to the banks.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u320	Colleagues, please take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u321	Mr. Chairman, I suggest we calm the tone of the room. Apparently, the whole room wants the Prime Minister's hearing and the head of the SANS. This is not the whim of one or another MP, nor of one or another parliamentary group. This is an unprecedented case in the history of diplomacy at all! The whole people are goosebumps and you know it very well because you read. No, you read. Everywhere they call, they ask, okay? We should have information. If we are responsible for the adoption of the budget, I would like to tell you that if the opposition had no responsibility, there would be no budget, Mr President. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u322	Yes, Mr. Tsonev, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u323	Don't listen to the former chairman, because he's gone because of a similar procedure. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u324	The procedure, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u325	No, no, he's gone for a procedure like this from the office, although he was very good at holding meetings. You hid the Prime Minister and so on, don't let me remind you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u326	It was a different procedure, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u327	The procedure I would like to do for you is therefore to exercise your rights, which you are right to have under both the Rules and the Constitution, to exercise them in the interests of the general interest of the National Assembly! Do not ask the Prime Minister: is there any opportunity, when to call you, how long will there be an opportunity, what is his readiness and what is his interest. Because the interest of the Members of the National Assembly is for him to appear here immediately! It's just my procedure for you. Exercise your right in the interests of the National Assembly without asking him within 20 minutes to tell you what he can do. Then it'll be okay. And don't talk from this high place that there's no interest in the budget! If you do not want to accept the budget, if we did not want to adopt the budget, the budget would not be adopted simply because you do not have a majority as governors! It's the opposition that's running your budget right now. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u328	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Once again, if it wasn't for all the procedures by now, we might have ended this matter. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Can we continue with the budget? Mr. Karimansky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u329	Colleagues, welcome to the budget again. Art. 1, Art. 1. 1 a proposal has been made by the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. [[Replications from the MPs Iva Miteva and Toshko Yordanov. There's a loud noise in the hall. MPs from GERB-SDS and DPS stand right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u330	Please continue with the budget report. Hold on, guys. Until Mr. Karimansky reads the report, Mr. Ivanov will be back. Let's not do things that aren't right, though. A little fellowship, don't put me in that position. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] We'll get him! Let's do it without creating unnecessary conflicts. Proceed, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u331	Proposal by the MP Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs ending 198. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev, made under the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Abrovski, ending in 199: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 5, District.................................................................................. Additional funding for the increase of the salaries of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency staff. The additional funding shall be 20% of the remuneration of the employees at present. The costs proposed in row 12.3. shall be at the expense of the revenue in para. 1, row 1.4. A value added tax to be increased by the corresponding amount. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Abrovski, ending at 200: In § 1, art. 1 the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In para. 1, row 1.4. The value added tax is to be replaced by the value added by the value added by the value added by the value added by the value added by the value added by the number replaced by the value added by the value added by the value added by the value added by the 2. In para. 5, District.................................................................................. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Plamen Abrovski and Zlatomira Karageorgieva-Mostrova, ending in 201: In § 1, art. 1 the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In para. 1, row 1.4. The value added tax is replaced by 15 260 000,0 and 15 275 000,0. 2. In para. 5, District.................................................................................. For the promotion of the fisheries sector, the sub-sector of fishing, marine and freshwater aquaculture, processing and trade, with a total of 15 000 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Abrovski, ending 202. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Abrovski, ending 203: In § 1, art. 1 the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In para. 5, District.................................................................................. For additional funding to increase the salaries of staff from the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and from the Forest Executive Agency. The funds will be increased so that they can increase the remuneration of the employees of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the Executive Forest Agency by 20% and affect the changes in the respective places. 2. The additional funding shall be provided at the expense of the funds laid down in para. 1, row 1.4. A value added tax and a value added tax and a value added tax. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Abrovski, ending 204: In § 1, art. 1 the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In para. 1, row 1.4. The value added tax is to be replaced by the value added by the value added by the value added by the value added by the value added by the value added by the number replaced by the value added by the value added by the value added by the value added by the 2. In para. 5, District.................................................................................. For additional funding for an increase in the remuneration of staff from the Forest Executive Agency of 1 900 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and Kiril Ananiev, ending 216. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova, Krasimir Valchev and Denitsa Sacheva, ending at 222. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova, Krasimir Valchev and Denitsa Sacheva, ending in 224. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Toma Bikov, Desislava Atanasova, Krasimir Valchev and Denitsa Sacheva, ending in 226. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova, Krasimir Valchev, Mladen Shishkov and Denitsa Sacheva, ending in 227. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the submersibles. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs ending 228. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs ending 229. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, ending at 230. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Hristo Terziyski and a group of MPs, ending in 232. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs ending 233. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Venko Sabrutev, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski and a group of MPs, ending in 234. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski and a group of MPs, ending 235. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Lyubomir Karimanski's proposal, made in the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski and a group of MPs ending 236. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva, graduating to 238. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Kostadin Angelov and a group of MPs ending 243. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Kiril Ananiev, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev and Ivelin Ivanov, ending 246. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs ending 247. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 3 point (b) and supports it in general in the rest. "3." (b) A new line 12.4 shall be created. To increase the income of the staff in the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture 8 000 thousand. lv.;................................................................. That's unsupported. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov and Alexander Nenkov, ending 248. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal for a new row 13.2, point (a), and supports the proposal under a new row 13.2, point (b) and point (c). Proposal of the National Representative Kiril Ananiev, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Drenchev and a group of MPs, ending 251. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Desislava Atanasova and Irena Dimova, ending in 252. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Petar Chobanov, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski and Toshko Yordanov, ending 253. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev and Zarko Marinov, ending in 254. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Desislava Atanasova and Hristo Terziyski, ending 255. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Kiril Ananiev, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Kiril Ananiev, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs ending 256. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 4.1. and supports it generally in the rest. And now the proposal: "4." In point (a), point (b) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: - In order.1.1. for activities under the Research Development Strategy and the National Road map, the number A new paragraph 1.3 shall be inserted with the following content: .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... To increase subsidies for inherent scientific and artistic and creative activities of state higher education schools In the part of t. 4.1. is unsupported. Proposal of the National Representative Tsveta Todorova Galunova, ending 257. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall also be reflected in its systematic place in art. 1, para. 5, t. 10 ABOUT CULTURE AND ARTS A NEW POINT 10.6. Proposal of the MP Tsveta Todorova Galunova, graduating from 258. The Commission does not support the proposal, and this is the following: ....................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 5, t. 10 "CULTURE AND ARTS" to create a new item. 10.4 with the following text: == sync, For further financial support to the state cultural institutes in the field of cultural and audiovisual heritage and museums and art galleries of a regional nature by increasing the value of the standards for their financing, including remuneration and implementation of activities to modernise the material and technical base lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Iskren Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Art. 1 is amended as follows: Art. 1. (1) Adopts the state budget for 2022 on revenue, aid and donations as follows: (According to the table in the Report.) (2) Accepts the state budget for 2022 on expenditure, budgetary relations and contribution to the general budget of the European Union as follows: (3) Confirms the budget balance of the national budget for 2022 as follows: (4) Confirms not the operations in the part of the financing of the budget balance under the national budget for 2022 as follows: (According to the table in the Report.) (5) Accepts expenditure on the central budget for 2022 for the implementation of policies as follows: (According to the table in the Report.) (6) The Council of Ministers may approve compensated changes in the allocation of costs under para. 5. (7) The Council of Ministers may provide additional funds of 50,000,0 thousand. lv. to extend the range of target heating support, including wood and pellets, following an analysis of the results of the 9-month period and provided that the balance under art. 1, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u332	And now I don't know if we should stop here, shall we?! Let's read the next one.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u333	Proposal by the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs ending 221: A new § 2 is being created. ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is The cost, the figure 1.2. In point 1. Current costs, the figure 2. The following paragraphs shall be renumbered accordingly. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Abrovski, ending 203: A new § 3 is being created. .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the 1. In para. 1 in row II "Costs' is replaced by "Costs' by "Costs' and "Costs' and "Costs' are replaced by "Costs'. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 7 the words "Politicals in the area of the conservation and increase of forests" and the number "29 674,3" shall be deleted; b) points 8 and 9 become points 8 and 9 respectively. 7 and 8; (c) point 10 shall be t. 9 and in it the number (d) points 10.1 and 10.2 become points (a) respectively. 9.1 et seq. 9.2; (e) point 10.3., with the words (f) of row The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs ending 198. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 1, Article 1. 1, para. 5, row 6.2.1. Proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs ending 256. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 1, Article 1. 1, para. 5, row 6.2.1. Proposal by the MP Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs ending 198. The Commission does not support the proposal: A new § 5 is being created. .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) The cost, the number 372 434.8, changed to 402 434.8. 3.1 Ct.1. Current costs, the figure 363 457.1 is replaced by 393 457.1; 3.2. In item 1.1. Staff, the figure 276 144.1 is changed to 306 144.1 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs ending 227. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in § 1, art. 1, para. 5, row 2.10. Proposal of the MP Plamen Abrovski and Zlatomira Karageorgieva-Mostrova, ending in 201: A new §7 is being created. .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the 1. In para. 1: (a) in row III. BUDGETARY REPRESENTATIONS (Transfers) the number (b) in row 1. Budget statement with the central budget (+/-) the number 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 2 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Abrovski, ending 203. A new § 7: is being created. .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 1.1. The funds will be increased so that they can increase the salaries of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the Executive Agency for Forests by 20% and affect the changes in the respective places. 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 3 (d) A new line 4 is set up on a food chain safety policy with an amount of 67529.7 and planned to increase the salaries of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency staff by 20%. e) Previous order 4 becomes row 5. (f) The changes shall also reflect the order of the The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs ending 228. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 1, Article 1. 1, para. 5, row 1.3. Proposal by the MP Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs ending 198. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 1, Article 1. 1, para. 5, row 6.2.2. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Svilenski and Nastimir Ananiev, ending 245. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 1, Article 1. 1, para. 5, row 13.4. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Svilenski and Nastimip Ananiev, ending 245. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 1, para. 5, row 13.4. Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and Irena Dimova, ending in 252. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 1, para. 5. Row 14. Proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs ending 256. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 1, para. 5, row 14. Proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 1, para. 5, row 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. Under § 4, a proposal has been made by the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 4. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ Article 3 is replaced by the Art. 70a. Within the current budget year, the Council of Ministers may issue state guarantees as follows: 1. under new loan agreements for payments to Bulgargaz-EAD up to the equivalent of 150 million. EUR, subject to State aid legislation; 2. under new loan agreements for investments of Bulgartransgaz-EAD in total up to the equivalent of 382 million. EUR, subject to State aid legislation. § 5. Article 71 is amended as follows: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. Proposal of the MP Iskren Mitev and a group of MPs, ending at 250. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76 the following amendments and additions are 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: (2) In carrying out the structural changes under para. 1 as well as in cases where the changes under para. 1, the respective chief authorising officers with a budget shall propose compensated changes between their budgets in accordance with Article 1. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 of the Public Finance Act by 1 November 2022 2. The creation of para. 5. . (5) With the proposals for making compensated changes under para. 2 the chief authorising officers with a budget if necessary propose to the Minister of Finance a change of classification in accordance with art. 18, para. 6 of the Public Finance Act. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77, para. 2 after the words the consequences of the COVID-19. is added for activities in the conditions of migratory pressure. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9, and shall, after the words "Regulation (EU) 2021/241', be added to the European Parliament and to the Council of 12 February 2021 on the establishment of a Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12. Proposal of the National Representative Kiril Ananiev, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: (2) For the integration of the accounting processes in the budgetary organisations whose budgets are included in the state budget, the relevant authorising officers with a budget must introduce an integrated financial information system according to a plan approved by the Council of Ministers for its implementation. The heads of the budgetary organisations included in the plan shall assist in the implementation of the Integrated Financial Information System. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14. Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Venko Sabrutev, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ....15......................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 111: Art. 111. (1) The Council of Ministers should take action to increase the capital of the Ministry of Transport, Sofia. Sofia State-owned company with 100 per cent state ownership of capital from the system of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, with a cash contribution of 50 000 000 leva. The increase in capital is carried out by issuing new shares. (2) The Council of Ministers shall take action to increase the capital of the Bulgarian Post Office, JSC. Sofia State Company with 100 per cent state ownership of the capital of the system of the Council of Ministers, with a cash contribution of 45 000 000 BGN. subject to State aid law. The increase in capital is carried out by issuing new shares. Proposal of the National Representative Venice Ognyanova Netzova-Angova and a group of MPs ending 249. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 112: Art. 112. (1) The funds referred to in art. 1, para. 5, Row 4.4 shall be granted to compensate for the increase in the price of the following types of motor fuels: 1. petrol A95 (CN code 2710 12 45) with the lowest selling price for this type of fuel in a particular establishment; 2. gas oil (diesel fuel) (CN code 2710 20 11) with the lowest selling price for this type of fuel in a particular establishment; 3. liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) (CN code 27112 11,2711 12 94,2711 12 97,271113 97 and 2711 19 00) with the lowest selling price for this type of fuel in a particular establishment; 4. natural gas (CN code 271 21 00 and 2711 11 00) with the lowest selling price for this type of fuel in a particular establishment; (2) The compensation under para. 1 shall be provided by reducing the amount due by the natural person for payment to the final distributor of 0.25 BGN. per litre/kilogram of fuel directly loaded into a fuel tank of motor vehicles of category Ml, two-wheel and three-wheel mopeds and motorcycles of category L registered under the Road Traffic Act, owned by a natural person or a user, where the motor vehicle is used by a person other than the owner entered as a user in the certificate of registration of the motor vehicle. Those circumstances shall be certified when loading to the final distributor by submitting the certificate of registration of the fueled motor vehicle. The compensation shall be paid in cash, with a bank debit or credit card. (3) A final distributor shall be a person who manages a gas station, gas station or methane station where liquid fuels are loaded into the fuel tanks of individual motor vehicles from tanks for the storage of those fuels. (4) Any final distributor registered under the Value Added Tax Act may grant compensation under para. 1. Compensation shall not be granted at sites where the charging of motor vehicles is carried out only for own use with liquid fuels under para. 1. (5) The final distributor providing the compensation under para. 1 must issue an extended fiscal bill to the natural person for the supply of motor fuels for which compensation is granted, in which the registration number of the motor vehicle is entered. The extension of the fiscal bonus instead of the name and address of the recipient shall indicate the holder of the fuel compensation under the CBRB and shall indicate the recipient's identification number instead of the name and address of the recipient. This expanded fiscal bond does not reflect sales of motor fuels for which compensation is not granted. (6) In the enlarged fiscal bill under para. 5 The final distributor reflects the compensation granted as a discount on the sales value of the fuel charged. (7) For the expanded fiscal bonds issued under para. 5 The final distributor shall draw up a separate report of the sales carried out under art. 119, para. 2, 3 and 4 of the Value Added Tax Act. The report issued shall be reported in the sales book under Article 3. 124, para. 1, t. 2 of the Value Added Tax Act with code 83. (8) The final distributor shall draw up a protocol which shall charge the required value added tax for the supply of fuel for which compensation has been granted during the respective month. The tax for the calendar month shall be fixed at the amount corresponding to the amount of the tax reduction in the coverage of the compensation granted as a discount. (9) The minutes shall contain the following information: 1. number and date; 2. the name and identification number of the final distributor; 3. type, amount of fuel under para. 1 for which compensation was granted and the amount of compensation granted for each species for the period; 4. total amount of compensation granted for the period; 5. correction in increase or reduction of the amount of compensation for a previous period/periods by type and quantity of the fuel concerned and the period to which it relates; 6. amount of compensation after correction (sum per item) 4, adjusted by the amount of t. 5) ; 7. tax base and tax calculated for the amount under item 7. 6 according to the following formula:... (10) The final distributor shall reflect the minutes under para. 9 in the sales log under art. 124, para. 1, t. 2 of the Value Added Tax Act, code 50, according to the applicable tax rate, indicates the tax base of the compensation in columns 11 and 17, respectively, in columns 12 and 18. (11) The final distributor shall declare to the National Revenue Agency the amount of compensation provided during the month concerned by electronic submission, signed with a qualified electronic signature, by a model approved by the order of the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. The declaration shall be lodged by the 14th of the month following the month of granting the compensation. The declaration shall claim reimbursement of the compensation granted and indicate the following data: 1. name and identification number of the final distributor; 2. month and year to which the declaration relates; 3. type, amount of fuel under para. 1 for which compensation has been granted and the amount of compensation granted for each type after covering corrections for previous months; 4. total amount of compensation granted under point 4. 3. (12) The amount indicated in the declaration under para. 11 shall be reimbursed to the final distributor within 10 days of the expiry of the period for submitting the statement of reference under the Value Added Tax Act for the relevant period in the event of full compliance of the data relating to the compensation provided as set out in the declaration under para. 11 and in the sales log of the final distributor for the relevant period. (13) Corrections to the lodged declaration under para. 11 after the expiry of the deadline for submission shall be made by submitting a new declaration after authorisation by a revenue body. (14) In the event of a non-compliance with the data relating to the compensation provided referred to in the declaration under para. 11 and the sales log of the final distributor for the relevant period, the amount indicated in the declaration under para. 11, shall be recovered after the non-compliance has been resolved in a subsequent period within the period under para. 12. (15) When the declaration under para. 11 and/or the reference to the declaration under the Value Added Tax Act for the relevant tax period have been submitted outside the statutory period, the reimbursement of the amount of compensation granted shall be made within a subsequent period within the period under para. 12. (16) A natural person who is a beneficiary of the compensation shall not be entitled to deduct a tax credit under the Value Added Tax Act for the accrued value added tax indicated in the receipts for which he has benefited, and the cost recorded under these invoices shall not be recognised for tax purposes. (17) Incorrectly received funds, unduly paid and overpaid amounts shall be reimbursed together with the legal interest from the date of receipt of the funds until the date of their recovery. The recovery claims are public government claims. The acts referred to in art. 166 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code shall be issued by revenue bodies authorised by the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. The appeal of the acts shall not suspend their execution. (18) The administration of compensation under para. 1 shall be carried out by the National Revenue Agency. The acts shall be issued by revenue bodies authorised by the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. (19) At the expense of the planned funds under art. 1, para. 5, t. 4.4. Changes are being made to the budget of the Ministry of Finance, respectively the National Revenue Agency, under the Law on Public Finance. (20) The Council of Ministers may suspend the granting of compensation under para. 1 when the funds under art. 1, para. 5, row 4.4.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u334	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Honourable Members, regarding the topic, which was discussed earlier today in relation to the request for a hearing by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Kiril Petkov and the Chairman of the State Agency Plamen Tonchev and in view of the real importance of the topic to be discussed, I propose that a hearing be held today, in today's plenary session of 18.30, and I have confirmation that the persons will be here and we will be able to hold the hearing by proposing that the meeting be closed. [[Reply from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] Let's clean up this procedure, Mr. Gajev, and then we'll clear up the weather procedure. In any case, it has been voted today by 20:00 p.m. and this issue will need to be clarified. Colleagues, I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by me to add a item to the agenda for today's plenary session, namely a hearing for 18.30, and my colleagues from the BSP have confirmed that they do not object to it being held at this hour. [[People from different parliamentary groups enter the Chamber. Replies: "What are we voting on?']] Colleagues, I'm waiting a few more seconds for everyone to vote. We vote that the hearing be held at 6:30 p.m. in closed session. I don't think every voice will be vital because I think there will be consensus on this subject. Vote 216 MPs: For 216, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u335	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! I am doing two procedures relating to the vote that has just been adopted, and the hearing that has been adopted, which is to be held behind closed doors. The first is because there are two other services that have a fundraiser on the topic. These are the State Agency for Intelligence and the Military Intelligence Service to include them in the hearing. This is the first procedure. The second procedure is if we have to vote to extend the working hours of today's sitting until the hearing is completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u336	Mr. Gazhev, Military Intelligence and DAR? What about the weather, Mr. Gadget? At the hearing. Colleagues, are there any other procedural proposals regarding the extension of time? I'll take the liberty of making a procedural proposal. To extend the time of plenary to 22.00 today, so that we can continue with budget texts. In principle, Mr. Gajev's proposal to add services to be heard is unacceptable, but as Chairman, the proposal will be made by me. Colleagues, I am voting to add a hearing to the presidents of Military Intelligence and DAR, and we have no confirmation that they will be able to appear at 6:30. [[Replys: "What are we voting on? "]] The Presidents of Military Intelligence and DAR shall take part in the hearing. [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Then it'll be about time, Mr. Tsonev. Colleagues, is it clear what we're voting on? Vote 218 MPs: 182, against 12, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Please inform the services of the meeting and of the hearing to be held at 18.30. Colleagues, I am voting on Mr. Gajev's proposal to extend the working hours of today's plenary session until the hearing is completed, which will be held at 18.30. They voted 216 MPs: 153 against 7, abstention 56. Colleagues, I'm withdrawing my offer. If we consider that during the hearing we can continue with the budget, then a procedure will be made and we will decide whether to continue with our work on the budget, which we are returning to now, after we have cleared the procedural issues. I'm opening the discussion on § 1 to § 15. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u337	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, since almost all the paragraphs of the Law have been reported, I hope that you will show a little tolerance for the speeches in five minutes, as I assume that many MPs will want to take more than one paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u338	Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u339	My speech will be by § 1. Colleagues from my parliamentary group, from "There is such a people" and a reenactment have proposed a 20% increase in wages at the Ministry of Interior. This thing was adopted on the Defense Commission. Here I am obliged to say why there is no such solution for the budget of the Ministry of Defence, because, as you know, these two budgets usually go together as well as the employees in them. There aren't three main reasons. The first is the statement of the Minister of Finance, who explicitly said that such money for an increase in wages has been envisaged in the budget and they will be allocated at the moment the Ministry of Defence presented some sort of reform plan. The Commission pointed out that it was about changes in the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Defence, which concerns some 750 people working there and not all the servicemen. The latest and only changes to the Ministry of Defence's Rules of Procedure is to reduce the administration's composition by about six people, at the expense of an increase in the administration of the Minister's political cabinet. I don't know, it must be a kind of reform. The other thing that prevents us from making such a proposal is the information that we have received from Minister Zakov for 77 million targeted on the central budget under art. 1 which is for wage increases, but provided that a scheme is made for differentiated payment of servicemen in different criteria defined by the Ministry of Defence and the leadership. Such a scheme has not yet been made to this day and has not been published, so there is no increase in the wages of the servicemen, because the Ministry of Defence and its leadership are not yet ready with the differentiated payment scheme in question. Eventually, when the next team is ready, perhaps it will be more successful in this regard, it will be possible to proceed to an increase in the salaries of the servicemen themselves, as promised and set in the budget for another February month. Let's see if the resignation government is able to fulfill at least this commitment. As for the proposal that I have made together with colleague Ivelin Ivanov, it is for editorial change of the text of art. 1, para. 5, t. 7.2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 are the target costs for implementing defence policies, in other words, the modernization of the army and maintenance of equipment. We were very strangely impressed that in the draft budget proposed by the Council of Ministers, current expenditures such as the purchase of fuel and the payment of energy carriers were laid down in the central budget in the field of "Celevi costs for policies', namely for modernisation. That is why we suggested that the member acquire the following editorship for acquisition, modernization, maintenance and repair of arms, equipment and ammunition, including the provision of aircraft operation, which was laid down as early as February. Thus we say one simple thing that this money is not for running costs, this money is not for fuel, it is not for electricity, this money is for modernization and maintenance of technology. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups who supported this proposal because they understand the importance of modernization of the army, so that it can be clear that they will not be spending on other activities. Because the funds, which are about 296 million, which have been laid down since February in this text, should not be spent on non-commercial activities or on current expenditure, because it should not be the end that inflation in fuel prices and energy carriers have eaten up the money for modernisation. This is something that I think none of the Members of the National Assembly in this House wants to allow and you will support this text, which I would like to point out once again, has been adopted unanimously by the Committee on Budget and Finance. I hope the government is able to do its job no matter which format, because modernization of the army is an important task. It must happen and these funds must go for exactly this battle training, i.e. the creation of combat capabilities, the purchase of new funds and their maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u340	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are there any lines, coworkers? Tsoncho Ganev, Blagovest Belev for the second. I'm recording you, Mr. Abrovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u341	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Gazhev, an extremely important topic. I was going to comment on it. I am glad that you have raised it, because what you have mentioned I will even ask you, if you decide to repeat during the duplicate again the reasons why the servicemen will not receive an update of their pay. It is not normal for this thing to be provided also because of carelessness or because of some others most likely, in quotes, objective reasons, of the current minister, of the previous minister, I do not know which one, the servicemen did not receive what they should have received. I received, within a week, at least ten calls from servicemen to ask me why in the security sector, in relation to the border police, police, fire department are getting an update, and the military has once again been bypassed. Because there's no inflation there, they're very rich there, and it's not that problem. So I ask you very much to repeat again, so that I do not quote you, you will have the floor anyway, to repeat why this government, which is resigned and must leave in the fastest way, has not done so to ensure the possible update of the pay?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u342	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Belev, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u343	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Gazhev, I strongly support you in your proposal to supplement this text from the budget, which ensures that the money will go to modernization. Yeah, that's really necessary. As has been formulated in the initial budget version, it has not become clear and has given the opportunity to spend funds for other needs. I strongly call on my fellow Members to support this proposal of yours. But I can't agree here that there's no money for the army to raise wages. Before entering the budget, the Minister of Defence sent a letter to the units and their respective superiors, giving precise instructions on how the optimization of the personnel should proceed. So to be clear and just justified these people, who are in retirement age and need to stay, why should they remain such a justification should exist, and against a similar reform the divisions, the Bulgarian army will receive an increase in wages. That's guaranteed. So please bear in mind also those who listen and watch, and also to you I make this addition and clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u344	Thank you, Professor Belev. Guys, is there a third line? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, of course you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u345	Mr. Gazhev, very quickly. You know that a text was voted in the budget as early as January, February, which allowed the army to increase wages after the restructuring. Currently there is a draft decree of the Council of Ministers, where the steps already taken are clearly described, the steps to be made and the money for the increase in wages and the proportion is allocated. I guess if it hasn't been voted on this Wednesday, it will be voted on next Wednesday and this will come into force from July 1st anyway, as far as payment is concerned. So within the framework of the budget already approved, the Ministry of Defence has ensured that the people's salaries in the Bulgarian Army are increased in question, combined with the restructuring steps of a part of which they are made, part of which are given with clear deadlines when they will be completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u346	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Is there still a third line to Mr. Gajev's statement? I won't. Mr. Gajev? You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u347	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister of Retire! I said why there were no proposals for increases in remuneration and changes in the budget of the Ministry of Defence. That's why, because the Secretary of Defense assured us that you would give him 77 million. BGN, which are, by the way, only for an increase in rations, not wages, because the increase in wages by even 10% is well above those 77 million. It's a simple bill! As for Mr. Belev, what you said, and I think I answer to Mr. Ganev here, yes, there are no proposals made by any MP because the Minister of Defense has convinced us that there will be an increase in wages. We're about to see. If you keep that promise, it'll be good for the servicemen, if the government doesn't fulfill it, it'll be unfortunate. Now about the reforms and the decree they're talking about. As for retired servicemen and their rights, the Minister of Defence and the general staff of the Ministry of Defence, it is good to read the Defense and Armed Forces Act. There are sufficient mechanisms to resolve this issue, including with the refusal of growth in rank, including the possibility to release a person who has acquired the right to a pension automatically by order of the Minister, because the minister is the appointing authority, not the divisions. Transferring to the units the responsibility of saying who they have, who they don't need, who gets fired by the servicemen there, is pretty irresponsible. This is the work of the Minister, his team and the leadership of the Ministry of Defence, not to transfer their own responsibility down the chain. The law gives all these powers and they can do them immediately. The question is whether in the budget and in the targeted funds that are provided for,.... these 77 million will actually go for an increase in wages or the proportion rather, or for payment of benefits, because even 1,000 people, God forbid, to cut off 1,000 servicemen, but even 100 people to make up for twenty salaries, right and so on, the Defence and Armed Forces Act very clearly says what benefits are being paid when they are being discharged from military service. As for the various hopes of reforms in the sphere.. I have not seen a single project, not even of the Defence and Armed Forces Act, for changes, or of the decree in question. Now I will look for it, because the only decree that has been put on public discussion, uploaded to strategy.bg, or accepted, is this particular ruling for changing the Rules of Procedure, which is for an increase of the political cabinet. I hope this is not an example of defence reform. As for the proposal itself, I hope you will really support our proposal, because the text that was tabled by the Council of Ministers showed a overthrow of the ambition for modernisation. Now that the purchase of heavy equipment for battalion battle groups has been dropped, it's become clear, well, let's see, there's still the possibility that the way we proposed it, it's formulated to happen this thing. I hope this procedure will be triggered because it is extremely important, but the reduction of funds and the attempt to bring current costs does not speak well. Support this proposal, and for wages we will see from July 1st, or rather for rations, because the servicemen deserve an increase in costs. Eventually, inflation affects them, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u348	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. The word has Peter Petrov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u349	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! My speech concerns the proposal made by us in the security sector, where in three directions we have wanted an increase in employees' salaries. First of all, an increase in the salaries of the employees in the Ministry of Interior. Secondly, an increase in the salaries of the employees in the two departments in the Ministry of Justice, these are the General Directorate of Security and the General Directorate of Punishment and thirdly, an increase in the salaries of the employees of the National Assembly. With regard to the security sector, I saw another February month when the state budget was adopted that it was not addressed with due attention to the seriousness of the work performed by staff in this sector. The employees in the security sector over the past two years have taken on quite serious and responsible tasks, not only along the pandemic, not just past the elections last year, but also along the immigrant wave, where many actions carried out by the Ministry of Interior officials have been affected. We saw that at the beginning of the year, when they again insisted on an increase in their salaries, they also held protests, and the same were parched with some promises of higher salaries in the budget update. Unfortunately, this also did not happen by the government in the sector "Secretary" there was no increase in employees' salaries in the proposed update, so we, the MPs from different parliamentary groups, had to make such proposals. Of course, I see that a consensus has been formed in the Budget Committee on an increase in the salaries of employees in the Ministry of Interior. Of course, these people deserve a more dignified fee to cross the leak of the system footage. Most of you know that this system is under pressure because qualified personnel leave it in the private sector, which is not good in general for the security sector. But I was extremely surprised yesterday to find out that the 30 million-dollar increase we requested and proposed. lv. In total, for the two departments that are at the Ministry of Justice, I realized that this proposal was rejected and that these people would not receive an increase in their extremely small salaries, not to say miserable salaries, with this update. We believe that this proposal is justified and should be supported, as these personnel, if they do not receive a little higher wages, because they are fighting for their physical survival, as well as many other strata in society, will leave the system and will suffer both the security of public buildings and the security of Bulgarian prisons. Of course, these people deserve to receive a slightly higher salary as a measure against inflation, against rising prices, because we all know that there are three sectors in the state that should be extremely well monitored, but also protected by the state power sector. At the moment in the security sector, we do not see adequate aid from the state, although prices are rising. These people, who have 5, 10, 15, 20 years of internship in the security system, are well-trained qualified personnel who are conscientiously performing their duties. But we drive them because with their salaries they cannot feed their families, gradually leave, and the low wages that we do not want to increase, including both directorates in the Ministry of Justice, will not allow new staff to start work, because no one will be interested in low wages of the order of BGN 1200. start salary to work on 12-hour shifts, which are not only heavy and responsible, but in many cases dangerous. I would therefore hope that the people's representation will reconsider, unlike the Budget Committee, and accept the proposed increase of 30 million. lv. of the two Directorates of the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u350	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Next statement, Mr. Karimansky. You said you had editorial suggestions. You'll give them later, right, so there won't be a mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u351	I'll be very brief. Editorial is two amendments that I would like to propose for a vote. On page 31 For financial support in the field of culture and the arts, the wording is to be completed without in the conditions of the declared exceptional epidemic situation for six months, because there are other projects expected to be implemented in the field of culture and arts, so that's the case. And also the amount should, here is the technical error already, because the amount is 30 million and not 30 million. And 400,000, as in the table. So I'm asking you to fix this thing. And another proposal that I had and I saw that it wasn't........................................................... 2. In order to increase the remuneration of the staff of the National Security Service, so far, as I have also expressed the arguments to colleagues in the Committee on Budget and Finance, so we voted, I also said that the National Security Service has already carried out the necessary structural changes.. has released the pensioners who have been involved in the service, made optimization of the individual structures, so there is no need to continue this sentence. And in another... in 6.2.3 to increase the salaries of the staff of the district administrations in the Republic of Bulgaria...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u352	Drop what? And there after structural changes took place to fall? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u353	Yeah, that's what I'm suggesting. So these are my suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u354	Let me just ask you what's more important. The text in 10.1. The number becomes 30,000, not 30,000 and 400, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u355	Yeah, it's 30 grand, not 30 grand and 400 to make it right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u356	Okay. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Abrovsky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u357	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! Since I do not want to waste time, I have made several suggestions, but I will make a statement. I would like to ask you to support my proposal for a 20% increase in the salaries of the employees at the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the Forest Executive Agency and the Executive Agency for the Fight against hails. These are people who are responsible every day for controlling and the food we eat and protecting agricultural production and protecting our forests. I think they deserve it. I think we should give it to them. Once again, please, let's increase their wages by 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u358	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. For a line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u359	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Abrovski, with regard to policy in the area of conservation and increase of forests and game, we believe that the financial resources set out in the Council of Ministers' budget programme for the Executive Forest Agency are extremely insufficient and in no case covers the objectives set for the implementation of the policy in the field of conservation and increase of forests. The update must provide the above-mentioned wage growth funds, otherwise it will again remain chronically underfunded, with extremely poor and risky working conditions for all workers and, above all, with the humiliating payment of highly qualified and responsible specialists and employees. In this regard, we had prepared a proposal similar to this, but in order to increase the chance to accept it, we refrained from importing to be one. So we'll back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u360	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Any other lines? I can't see. For the duvet eventually, Mr. Abrovsky, but I think it was support. Next statement Mr. Drenchev. If there are others, tell me, because Mr. Drenchev is the last. Yeah, there is, I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u361	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank the Commission for supporting the proposal that I and a group of MPs have tabled to allocate a very modest amount for the Lower Metropolitan Air School. The school was restored two years ago after it was extremely incorrectly inserted under the hat of the University of Veliko Tarnovo. At the moment, it is experiencing a very serious shortage of funds. That one million. 200,000 that we're giving away is not an essential amount, they won't solve much of the problems. The most serious problem is the students' nads, the increase in technique and any change in the flight program they should be implementing. But I hope that with the release of this money we are making a message that the Air School is in the focus of our attention and that next year we will make the budget increase dramatically, because the Air School is key in many sectors, not only in the defence sector, where we spend billions on fighters and we need quality selection of pilots, which will multiply with their capabilities and capabilities the capabilities and capabilities of aviation equipment. When adopting the Health Insurance Fund budget it was said that by the end of the year we would have medical helicopters, but I know that this will not happen simply because we don't have the necessary staff to fly these helicopters, we don't have a trainer to train the medics and paramedics who will transport the sick into these helicopters. In order to increase the opportunities of both medical services and defence and agricultural aviation and the opportunities to use drones in various sectors of the nation's agriculture, we must put in our focus precisely education, including training at the Air School, which is unique to our country school. From this point of view, I thank the Commission for its support, I thank Tsoncho Ganev, who very motivatedly defended in the Commission this proposal that we have made, and I very much hope that in the next budget we will have a drastic increase in expenditure, because these are expenditures for science, which in any case come not only in defence but also in all areas of our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u362	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Are there any lines to that statement? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u363	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Drenchev, the Hems system is definitely something our country needs. However, the problem of the implementation of the HEMS system is not limited to the purchase of helicopters alone. And you are a man who has a great deal of experience in the field of aviation and aviation, and I know very few people like you, for which I want to thank you for the hours and nights you have given Bulgaria in ensuring its security to the Bulgarian sky. From another point of view, I want you to go a little bit more into the matter to explain to the people who are currently watching us whether the investment will be enough only in the purchase of aircraft helicopters. When we developed this system and commented with representatives of different ministries, of Fire and emergency safety, of the Ministry of Defense, of the Ministry of Interior, it turned out that the slightest problem was the purchase of helicopters. Following the construction of a command centre, the maintenance of a permanent flight crew to be trained. Then building locations for the landing of helicopters in different parts of Bulgaria, which should be divided into South Bulgaria and Northern Bulgaria, as Stara Planina during the night, I speak like a bark, not as a professional like you. There should also be permanent teams of medics trained to work in such a special, so-called aviation medicine and to provide emergency assistance to fly on these helicopters, that is to have 24-hour duty of permanent teams to ensure the security, health security of Bulgaria through air ambulances. So I'm asking you very much to give a little more information about what other than helicopters this system needs to be complete and provide health security for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u364	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Drenchev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u365	Thanks for asking. Mr. Angelov, I am pleasantly surprised that you are so well aware of the problems. Indeed, aviation technology is one, true, mandatory element, but only the first element of the entire system. Because the real technique can be bought true that it costs a lot of money, but it can be bought quickly and it can, if you buy it today, literally in a few days or a month you can have it. That is not the case with staff. Pilots build slowly for years. For a long time, we've had the opportunity for military pilots to leave it, who retire, then a long time to work in Civil Aviation. But it's not like that anymore. The only way to have qualified personnel is to train him, and that could be best done at Air Force School. It's extremely difficult to save. I guess it's complicated. There is a procedure even when a stretcher with a sick person, with a person who can't stand on his own feet and has to get on an ambulance, and what's left when you have to get on a helicopter when you have to pick him up with a winch, when the screw is over your head, when the wind is shaking the machine.. These are all complex procedures that shouldn't just be known, they should be trained, and they should be trained periodically so that the crews can fly in all kinds of conditions, day and night, and in simple and complex conditions. Not just the flight crew, you have to train the entire crew. It has to work together. The pilot and the on-board technician, possibly the doctor or paramedic on board, must be well-functioning, to get a team working in an absolute synchronization. Because there, in such a critical situation for each patient's life, is of particular importance the qualification of the staff in the helicopter. That's both flight personnel and medical personnel. One of the good opportunities the Military School has is that it is close to the town of Pleven, where there is a Medical University. There are also programs at the Military School with the Medical University. By the way, there is also a project for a trainer, which is made a cabin per helicopter should be installed at 20 meters high. This enables really in real terms, when you see the earth far ahead of you, to be able to control all your actions, to train all your actions. This is something extremely important, and indeed there are still people who can train the next generation of both medics and paramedics and helicopters pilots, and we really need to invest very serious amounts within the next year, both in terms of aviation equipment and in terms of helicopter equipment and aircraft. Because maybe really aviation is an expensive thing, but when it saves lives, it's something that's really worth every penny and every effort we put into this venture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u366	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. I'd just like to inform... For a procedure? Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u367	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! I am very sorry, but I will really ask for a small procedure on behalf of our parliamentary group. We have now been discussing the forthcoming hearing of the Prime Minister and of the heads of the services that, in fact, if there is anyone who can say exactly what happened, this is the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is currently replacing Mrs. Teodora Genchovska. I think you'll agree, Mr. Chairman, from the information that came out of the public domain, it became clear that if any action had been taken, they were from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Now I have a vague suspicion, without, of course, how to say, to want to predict what we're about to hear, but it's possible that the services will tell us that they don't know much, and that we'll be in the dark of what really happened. So, in order to obtain fullness of information, the people's representation will, and I think you will, support this proposal, there is still time, even if the Deputy Minister, who is replacing Minister Genchovska at the moment, is late, to invite him to the joint group of civil servants we have invited to participate in the hearing. Thank you for your understanding and I hope you will support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u368	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. What I think we can do at this stage now is to contact the Deputy Minister and invite her if there is a chance, if there is a desire, not to vote again, because it happens a little...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u369	You invite us, and we'll make a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u370	Yeah, I think that's what we can do. I'll ask you to contact the Deputy Minister's office so we can invite her to join the hearing. If there's a chance. Then let me inform you at the present time that six Members of Parliament have been enrolled, I will inform them who they are. They are from the parliamentary group of GERB: Krasimir Valchev, Temenuzhka Petkova, Mladen Marinov, Hristo Terziyski, Delyan Dobrev, Zhecho Stankov. I give the floor to Krasimir Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, with colleagues from the GERB-SDS parliamentary group, we have made several proposals concerning the costs of education and science. I would like to thank my colleagues from the parliamentary groups of the Committee on Budget and Finance who supported these proposals. The education system needs a lot of extra money. There are many things that need to be modernised and every one of them requires funds. Means requires the material base with all its components, energy efficiency, offices, courtyards, sports fields, buses. There is a need for an increase in funds for inclusive education, a reduction in average weight gain in a class, an increase in all types of additional activities and support. This cannot be decided with one budget, but no update must be missed, no regular budget to increase the funds for education. Unfortunately, budget practice shows that very often they stay in the background when there are many other unresolved problems, they are easily prioritized. Especially when there are crises and education is forgotten, it reduces the percentage of gross domestic product of expenditure for education, something that happens with this update because of two facts. One is that gross domestic product is being revalued, it is growing nominally, and the second is that there were no additional funds offered for education in this update. Our proposals aim to correct this, to further assist, to give breath to the system of preschool, school and higher education. Why? Because this year, apart from everything I've said, there's an extraordinary factor. This factor is the inflation rate of a ubiquitous tax, it benefits all types of consumption, all types of expenditure, savings, brings additional revenue to the budget. On the other hand, it also exerts pressure to increase costs, and if we want to maintain the ability to secure these expenditures on budgetary organisations, the costs of social transfers, as for example in scholarship education, we need to increase them at least with the rate of inflation these funds. What's going on? The budget generates over-incomes from inflation, but returns a small part of it. This is referred to as the Unfortunately, the government is tempted to take this budget dividend without it remaining in the systems. It's at the expense of income policy. In the education system, fortunately, a good consensus was reached not only in the ruling coalition, but I would say a wider political and budgetary consensus that teachers' remuneration should be 125% of the national average. Therefore, what we have proposed is additional funds to be allocated both for raising alimony. In view of the inflation processes, our analyses show a 30-year increase in maintenance costs and were compensated by 7,5%. It is the same for scholarships, it is the same for increasing the funds for national programs with the same funds are bought or done less things. It has already been said by the Ministry regarding the funds from the Recovery and Sustainability Plan that 30% less kindergartens, schools, dormitories, higher schools will be subject to modernisation or 30% less activities will be done only because of inflation processes, mainly in construction, in major renovations in the last year, year and a half. The state of concern is the cost of food, especially in kindergartens, where there is a large share. Colleagues, ministers of the ruling coalition, especially Ms. Ninova, I heard here and Prime Minister Petkov boasting something that is really positive about removing fees in kindergartens and schools as a measure, but it should be borne in mind that what we have done, voting for this text, is to ban municipalities from charging fees. On the one hand, they have higher costs of food. On the other hand, we have forbidden them to collect the fees. This means that they cannot compensate with higher charges higher costs. Here comes the role of the state. In fact, the state he did is to transfer nutrition as a delegated state activity. Therefore, we must approach the municipalities responsibly or, more precisely, honestly. The budget should not be unfair to the municipalities, to transfer underfunded commitments and these costs if possible, this amount of 650 BGN. the child to increase in the second half of the year as it is already insufficient. If our proposal is accepted, there is enough money to do this, some 15 million will be sufficient from this total amount of 150 million, which we voted on to the Committee on Education and Science, and will remain even a little bit of money to compensate for the maintenance and income policy of 1 November. It is important what has been done, which has been approved by the Committee on Budget and Finance in relation to the Agricultural Academy. Here and colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party had a proposal that coincided with our or other proposals, as this is the second largest scientific organization. The third is respectively the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, which should also be compensated with increased remuneration costs. That way, we won't say we've ruled someone out. That's not a lot of money. And we ourselves, with colleagues from GERB-SDS, have done, how to say, fine-tuning by reducing some of our proposals so that we can solve more problems. Some voices heard that this led to an additional increase. [[Heckling]] Is the time over?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u372	Yeah, but we agreed we'd give a little more time since we're discussing a lot of...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u373	Okay, thanks. I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u374	Thank you. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. I give the word to Temenuzhka Petkova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members, I would like to take account of § 4 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget for 2022 establishing art. 70a, according to which, within the current budget year, the Council of Ministers may issue state guarantees, as follows, under new loan agreements for payments to EUR and under new loan agreements for investments of Bulgartransgaz (Bulgartransgaz) amounting to the total amount of the remaining equivalent of 382 million. Euros. Honourable Members, there is a provision of a State guarantee amounting to a total of 532 million. EUR, or 1 billion. 37 million. lv. for these two state-owned energy companies. It's interesting how it came to this. In order to make the difference between what is happening now or is going to happen, and what has happened before, I will only say that for the last seven or maybe eight years, as also colleagues in the previous government had not provided any State guarantees for state energy, apart from 110 million. EUR, which we have provided a state guarantee for the construction of the interconnector Greece. Now, honourable Members, 1 billion dollars are being offered. 37 million. lv. State guarantee and these two state-owned energy companies can withdraw a loan on the basis of which, notice, Bulgargaz is to make payments to suppliers. This, colleagues, is extremely disturbing and I don't know if you realize it. I don't know if we're making it clear what a blank check we're signing at Bulgargaz. More importantly, how did it come to this, and why did it come to this? These two companies were in excellent financial condition. In 2014 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The company, which was led to financial collapse, managed to stabilize it, managed to make the company profit. What has happened with regard to Bulgartransgaz, who is also our gas operator, who has also always been at positive financial results, has covered all its investment costs, and is now again facing an obvious inability to do so without being granted such a State guarantee. I would like to draw your attention to the Bulgargaz. From this tribune many times by the Political Party GERB and our partners from the SDS we have posed the topic related to Bulgargas, with the supply of natural gas to Bulgaria. The first reason, in my opinion, which led to this condition, is linked to the change of management of the company by changing a competent and honest management of the company, which worked for years to be stable and to meet the needs of natural gas for Bulgarian consumers. You may recall that it was replaced by a director of a private company, a private trader for the supply of natural gas. The first thing this guy did was sell gas to his previous employer. To be a little more specific, this deal happened in no more than three seconds. So the first and main reason for us to get to this text in the Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act is the change of management, which has in no way proved that it is competent and that it is honest unlike the previous management of the company. What did the new leadership do next? You have returned the intermediaries, honourable Members, you may recall that these intermediaries cost us 100 million. lv. a month. Perhaps they have already run out of money for payments to intermediaries and this has motivated the government to provide this state guarantee in order to ensure that payments are made to the intermediaries of Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) who deliver natural gas to the country. The third very important reason, which led to this collapse of the Bulgarian government, is related to the lack of clarity and information whether the Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian business will be able to obtain the necessary amounts of natural gas, because one of the most closely guarded secrets in the country proved to have a contract with a natural gas supplier, at what cost, under what conditions, how much will the Bulgarian citizens pay for the delivery of this raw material?! It's the strictest secret in the country. We wrote a letter to the Minister of Energy to give us more clarity on this topic. Turns out we're almost gonna push the state if we find out who was negotiating, if there's a contract, or if we go every day and pray to different suppliers to give us the necessary quantities. The other thing that is extremely important and which should be known is that the company, which did not have a single lev obligation, is now brought to several hundred million levs of debt to the National Revenue Agency and to the Bulgarian Revenue Agency, so its financial situation is extremely poor. I would therefore like to call on and appeal to all of you to be extremely careful when we vote § 4 with these state guarantees for the two state-owned energy companies, because in practice we will issue an empty check, especially to "Bulgargaz"................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... How much for a month, for two, and then, what do we do?! It will again draw loans so that it can cover its current gas supply costs. So, honourable Members, my call is to be extremely careful and not to support the provision of this text, and especially in the part concerning Bulgargaz. This will be some money that will go not where it should go, but will simply go in my opinion to the missionaries and mediators in the supply of natural gas to Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u376	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. For a line, Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u377	Dear Mrs. Petkova, what you should have actually said in your speech is that at the end of last year the company is not obliged. Their financial result last year was 99 million profit and at the end of the six-month period Bulgargaz is already at a loss. Not only is it at a loss for just four months with the new management there is a 300 million loan drawn. lv. From banks, there's 60 million. lv. liabilities to the Bulgarian authorities and to the NRA 9 million to the Bulgarian authorities and more than 50 million to the NRA for unpaid VAT, i.e. in just four months they managed to screw this enterprise with nearly 400 million. Now, in the state budget, we are offered, colleagues, this enterprise and this management, which in four months has set up the enterprise with 400 million, the state will vote on its state guarantee in order to withdraw another 300. They have drawn the maximum that a company can withdraw without any assets, because I pay attention to you that there are no assets. He's a gas dealer, buys gas and sells gas. Based on the history of Bulgargaz. Based on the fact that Bulgargaz is a state-owned company, the banks gave him 300 million. He's spent that $300 million, paid it somewhere by middleman, by scheme and so on, for which no one knows where it's paid, who's paid, how much money and so on, he's in debt to the NRA with over $50 million, he's in debt to Bulgartransgaz with about $10 million, and he still doesn't have enough money, and we're being offered here in the budget to vote on a state guarantee. I agree with you that we should not support this text on a state guarantee for "Bulgargaz" and I call on all colleagues also to abstain or to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u378	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mrs. Kirova, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u379	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line is actually a question to Mrs. Petkova. I would like her to explain to us, if there is information about the accumulated debts at the time of the "Bulgargaz" to explain whether they are due to the poor financial management, because after all "Bulgargaz" is a trader, he should buy and sell with profit? Is there any connection to gas supplies that were specifically negotiated and for which we did not get clarity? There is information that in fact the price of these two notorious tankers is about 35% higher, delivered in Bulgaria, than the price previously agreed. Do we have such information and this is why we should be careful when we vote § 4? Because by giving such state guarantees, we can be placed in the situation that we can guarantee for a company that not only has nothing, but also does not properly fulfil its commitments to the state as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u380	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. I hope Mrs. Petkova can answer that. Mr. Stankov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u381	Dear Mrs. Petkova, dear colleagues! I agree with everything you said, only I miss the whole puzzle that you started with. After the release of the Executive Director of Bulgargas, very skillfully arranged the rest of the puzzle, which does not reserve the capacity of any of the liquefied gas terminals. There is no public, transparent procedure for the purchase of gas, where this opaque immediately led to the 100 million that you mentioned. Or if we divide, like Mr. Dobrev on his knee had made an account, that 100 million per month to five million active citizens working, it becomes so that 20 leva. Every month in the pocket of Bulgarian citizens go on mysterious roads to a working company. I will compare it with other dates.. as of April 2021, when you were a minister until April, it was at 17 million profit, and for the first few months and until April 2022 it barely reached 2 million profit..................................................................................................................................................... In other words, under the same regulation with the same quantities of gas, the company makes 10 times lower profit, which by the end of the year even by the middle of the year becomes a loss. From now on, we can only draw conclusions as to where this 150 million will go. EUR, which you are currently talking about as a proposal in the budget, at least because 288 million by April are loans. In other words, they are sank under this ordered scheme - release of the company's boss, non-reservation of capacity, discharge of Chiren and purchase of gas in an opaque way. So we expect the opinion of the people with whom I am meeting in the sector, and they are of the opinion that this is what is going to happen. As for the company, which has always served as an example in the energy sector and has given its contribution as dividends to the Bulgarian Energy Holding... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. It is for this company, if you remember, that we have placed funds in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan hundreds of millions to build new pipelines. At the moment, not only has this money been transferred and six thousand tires of batteries are bought, because there went the money for the "Jemcorp" but now we have to give this company a guarantee because it is already financially weak so that it can only afford to continue with the investments. I would like to hear your opinion on these two issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u382	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova, for three minutes. We're gonna have to give you a special hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u383	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, thank you for the lines you've made. They were extremely accurate and appropriate, but within five minutes there is no way to tell the whole story, unfortunately, a tragic story of the Bulgarian public natural gas supplier. What I can say for sure is that the state in which the company is currently located is a profitable company, a financially stable company, a truly competent, honest management, today this company is facing financial collapse. Moreover, this company is part of our national security as it is responsible for the supply of natural gas to Bulgaria and the Bulgarian market, so its financial stability is extremely important. In my opinion, this financial instability of the company is entirely due to the incompetence, opaque management of the company and the Bulgarian energy sector, the policy of this government in the field of energy. For the Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian business that pays the bill, what secret can represent who has negotiated with which company has a contract, at what price will we receive the gas? Can this be a secret, in your opinion, the most private secret in the country? Is this the understanding of the Change Continued for publicity and transparency? If these are your vows of publicity and transparency, honourable Members, I do not know whether to call you the ruling majority, but still ruling by the Change, we do not need such a change. This is neither public nor transparent, nor in the interests of the people, and people understood it very quickly, by the way. So, honourable Members, indeed the questions you have raised are extremely important. Bulgargaz is in severe condition. In my opinion, it does not need such a state guarantee. As Mr. Dobrev mentioned, this company does not have assets, i.e. the state, the fisk will take a serious risk with this state guarantee. Let me not be a bad prophet, but in my opinion, this company deliberately seeks to be bankrupt simply because it goes that way. It has its own owner. Its owner is the Bulgarian Energy Holding. It is a financial holding company and it is his job to take care of the financial situation of its subsidiaries, so once again I call for a vote against the granting of a state guarantee in respect of Bulgargaz. That's a risk to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u384	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. For Mr. Svilensky's procedure. After Mr. Svilensky's procedure, I'll give him a break until 6:30 to prepare for the closed session. You need to put down the phones.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u385	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Members! I guess there's nothing more to say by § 1. We hear from our colleagues about Bulgargaz. Development, relations, things we've heard about them. Maybe 68 times in this room. [[a line from the People's Representative Temenuzhka Petkova]] I guess we didn't get them. You don't have to tell them one more time during the budget, because they obviously don't. Whatever. My procedure is to put an end to the debate under § 1 and move on to the following points. Thank you. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Stankov was the first to have a procedure. Now bear in mind that I have announced the people who have already signed up. I'm afraid even if we stop speaking, I'm going to have to give them the floor, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I respect what you just said. That's exactly where I come out of the stands. There are recorded colleagues who are in different fields, including colleagues who will speak about municipalities, about the fuel discount and so on, which in all cases are important topics for which we must debate from this highest tribune. Thank you. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] That's right. The guarantees, if you listened carefully to Mrs. Petkova's statement, were indicated where the specific point in the budget was, which... [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] One sentence, Mr. Svilensky. I apologize for going into dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u387	Yeah, it's not right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u388	One sentence, Mr. Svilensky. It's worth $1 billion. 200 million. lv. from the state budget as guarantees and obliges a fissure, so there is no easy way to give a billion and 200 million without taking into account. So we gave a billion and a half for batteries. We can't afford to spend with the same ease...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u389	This is essentially and should not, Mr. Stankov. We understand you're re-proposing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u390	I'm making a counterproposal, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u391	This may help more MPs to hear that they should leave their phones outside the room shortly. Until the colleagues gather, to say that if we decide to end the discussion, we still have in the list: Nastimir Ananiev, Mladen Marinov, Hristo Terziski, Irena Dimova, Delyan Dobrev, Iskra Mihailova, Zhecho Stankov and Tsoncho Ganev. I think we can move on to the vote now. Please vote on the proposal to end the discussions on the paragraphs that have been submitted. Let's keep in mind that there are more paragraphs than just § 1, Mr. Svilensky, but I'm just specifying. Vote 196 MPs: 92 against 103, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. It's a rethink mode. They voted 213 MPs: for 102, against 111, there is no abstention. The proposal is not accepted. Like I said, even if it was accepted, we still have a lot of people on tape. I give 5 minutes to prepare the hall for the closed session and, respectively, to leave your phones and other communication devices in the rooms of the parliamentary groups. [[After the closed session.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-29.u392	The next meeting is tomorrow, 30 June 2022, from 9:00 with the announced agenda. We're adjourned.
