ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats! 153 MPs have registered. There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Today's sitting marks the beginning of a new parliamentary session, which is why we are starting with a hearing of the hymn under the Rules of Procedure. Everyone, please stand up. [[(Everyone's up. The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union sound. (Applause)]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, at the beginning of today's plenary session I would like to congratulate all Muslims in Bulgaria with the festival of Ramadan Bajram! Let us wish health, happiness, luck and prosperity! Today begins the Third Session of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. Let it be successful and fruitful! We have important work ahead of us, and I believe that each one of us will do what is necessary to make responsible decisions, as we have so far. Under the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for 4 and 5 May 2022 Today and tomorrow. First of all, the proposals received from the parliamentary groups under the order of art. 47, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure. 1. A proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the National Assembly There are projects for changes in the permanent committees of the National Assembly. Drafts: Decision amending the Decision on the election of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and on changes in the composition of the Commission; Decision amending the Decision on the election of the Committee on Budget and Finance and on changes in the composition of the Commission, Decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry and Decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. 2. A proposal from the Parliamentary Group of Democratic Bulgaria. Draft decision to award the Council of Ministers to provide military and technical assistance to Ukraine. Importers.? Atanas Slavov and a group of MPs. At this point we will examine all three draft decisions which are identical and are with the common report of the Foreign Commission, namely: Draft decision to provide military and technical assistance to the Republic of Ukraine, importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs; Draft decision to award the Council of Ministers to provide military and technical assistance to Ukraine; importers Atanas Slavov and a group of MPs; Draft decision to take measures in connection with the war in Ukraine, importers Kaloyan Ikonomov and a group of MPs. 3. Proposal from the Parliamentary Group of Party ARCHIVER for changes to the Permanent Committees of the National Assembly. Drafts: Decision amending the Decision on the election of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and on changes in the composition of the Commission, Decision amending the Decision on the election of the Committee on Budget and Finance and on changes in the composition of the Commission and Decision on a change in the composition of the Commission on the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. On the part of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change..... there is no proposal under art.................................................................................. 47, para. 8. 4. Proposal from GERB-SDS parliamentary group. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances related to the government's 1 billion-billion-dollar Memorandum signed by the Government. US dollar with Gemcorp and IP3 Corporation. Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. There is no proposal from the parliamentary group for rights and freedoms. 5. Proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria "Annual Report on the Activity of the Commission for Personal Data Protection for 2021." These are the points that automatically enter the Programme, the next ones are proposed by me and we will put them to the vote. 6. Draft decision to provide military and technical assistance to the Republic of Ukraine, importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs; Draft decision to award the Council of Ministers military and technical assistance to Ukraine, importers Atanas Slavov and a group of MPs; Draft decision to take measures in connection with the war in Ukraine, importers Kaloyan Ikonomov and a group of MPs. If we look at and vote on these draft decisions within the framework of this. 2, this will be automatically removed from the program. 7. Second vote on the Treaty ratification bill (Written for offer and acceptance of tender/Letter of Offer and Acceptance.OA) for supplement and amendment No 1 (Amendment No 1) to International Treaty (LOA) BU-P-AAD.Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II rockets, related materials and services (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missiles, associated material and services). The Council of Ministers adopted on the first vote on 6 April 2022. 8. Draft Law on the ratification of the Second Amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Government of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Department of Defence of the United States of America concerning capacity for strategic air transport. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importer Kostadin Kostadinov and group of MPs. This is a continuation of a discussion already under way. 10. First vote on the Bill amending the Public Procurement Act. Importers - Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. 11. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the consideration of all memorandums and letters of intent signed by the Government for the period from 12 May 2021 to 20 April 2022. Importers 12. First vote on the bill amending the Energy Act. Importers Daniel Petrov and a group of MPs. Like a t. 13 we will add what GERB SDS have offered, according to the order of art. 47, para. 3, p. 13 in the Programme will be: 13. Draft decision on the obligation of the Court of Auditors to submit to the National Assembly a final Audit Report on compliance in the conclusion and implementation of the Public Procurement Contracts of the Road Infrastructure Agency with regard to the design, construction and operation of an electronic system for the collection of fees for the use of the Republican Road Network from the beginning of the design of the system until the end of 2020. 13. And the last one. 14, but fixed as first for Thursday is: 14. The selection of two members of the Council for Electronic Media. The procedure of choice shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 7 April 2022. Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I use the procedure to congratulate our Muslim brothers the celebration of Ramadan Bajram and Christ Wozkrese of Christians as we have not seen each other since Easter! To all health and prosperity and to be better! [[Replying in response to greetings.]] To the procedure Mr President, honourable Members, quite, of course, in the spirit of the Rules, the parliamentary groups have proposed under para. 8, also in the spirit of the Rules, you have called an emergency meeting and you get the following picture: Now the first point or second, depending on what the ICN will decide with their proposal for the committees, will be the question of the decision to provide military-technical assistance to Ukraine, a question on which there are three proposals for a solution, and which will obviously be a central topic of today's extraordinary meeting. I suggest we find a way to unite debate, hearings and decisions in one sitting. For this, there can be two approaches. As far as I know, in the extraordinary hearing the hearings and the decision are the first point of the extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u3	The hearing is the first point, the decision of GERB-SDS is the second.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u4	Absolutely accurate. First, you listen, you get information, then you decide the parliamentary groups and vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u5	The hearing is about the gas, however, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u6	Okay, okay. [[Heckling]] It's my fault, I apologize, I thought the hearing would still be on this subject, because on this subject we have enough questions for the executive authority. We in the DPS parliamentary group have enough questions: volumes, specifics and so on. I mean, there's gonna be a hearing there, too, because we're gonna ask the Council of Ministers to be here. The question is, if this is how we accept the agenda, by para. 8, starting with one DB decision, in the afternoon we move on to the other, to the third debate, the second debate, the third debate on the same topic?! My suggestion is to find a way, a consensus to be either now or to be in the extraordinary meeting. If it is to be in the emergency, it is obvious that the Democratic Bulgaria must withdraw this under para. 8 to remain with the other decisions. If it is going to be now, it is obvious that for the extraordinary sitting the point must enter now. Thank you. That's my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u7	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. To clarify the fact that "Democratic Bulgaria" has exercised its right under art. 47, para. 8 to propose its draft decision, insofar as it is logical to make them into a discussion, as you said. We also discussed this at the Board of Presidents to make all the decisions in one discussion and finally to vote in a joint vote. This is going to be times t. 2 of the program. Perhaps you have the option that includes only one draft decision. [[Heckling]] The three are going to be, the three of us are going to look at this. 2, which will lead to the automatic dropping of t. 2 of the extraordinary sitting and for the extraordinary sitting will remain the hearing. I put the program to the vote in the part I proposed from point 6 to the end. Vote 215 MPs: for 178, against 4, abstention 33. The motion is accepted. We move on to proposals for inclusion on the agenda on the basis of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. One proposal is from Alexander Nenkov "A decision for the Court of Auditors. We put it in the regular program, so I won't put it to the vote. The next proposal is under art. 47, para. 3 by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs for inclusion in the Programme as item one on the agenda for Wednesday, specifying that this means item six, as the first five are in the order of para. 8 The draft decisions submitted concerning changes to the following three permanent parliamentary committees: Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Committee on Budget and Finance and Commission on the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. These are the same projects and decisions that enter as point 3 of the Programme under the order of art. 47, para. 8, but now they are proposed in accordance with Article 8. 47, para. 3. Please vote on the proposal of our fellow Members. Vote 217 MPs: 106, against 62, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote. Please, voting mode. Vote 217 MPs: 119, against 63, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. The item shall be included as point 6 and the rest shall be renumbered. The final proposal shall be in the order of art. 47, para. 3 by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev and concerning the Draft Decision on the establishment of the Temporary Commission for the Verification of the Circumstances that led to the suspension of natural gas from the "Gazprom Export" and the procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers from the "Bulgargaz" to be included in the weekly Programme of the National Assembly. Please vote on Delyan Dobrev's proposal. Vote 221 MPs: 157 against 50, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. This point becomes the last in the program for the week. We're now moving on to a few messages. On the basis of art. 89, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I present to you the following reports on the launch of a new session of the National Assembly. 1. Reference to the authorities and members of the authorities whose term of office has expired, for which the National Assembly should hold elections under the current legislation for the election of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, nine members, including Chairman, Vice-President and Secretary. The Office of the National Assembly has submitted: - procedural rules under art. 89, para. 8 of the Executive Board for the election of President and Members of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data; - procedural rules under art. 89, para. 8 of the Board of Inspector General of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, the election of Inspectors of the Supreme Judicial Council, the election of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control, the election of a Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, the election of a Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, the appointment of a member of the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian National Bank, the head of management of the Bulgarian National Insurance Institute, the election of a Governor of the Bulgarian National Insurance Institute, the election of two judges in the Constitutional Court, the election of the Board of Experts. Five members, including the Chairman, the initiation of a selection procedure, the election of a President of the Court of Auditors and, on his proposal, two Vice-Presidents and two members, the election of two members of the Board for Electronic Media, have been initiated. 2. Reference to members of the bodies whose term of office has been terminated early and for which the National Assembly should hold elections under the legislation in force selecting a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means and of a Vice-President by the members of the Bureau; election of a Chair of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. 3. Reference to the authorities and members of the bodies whose term of office expires during this session, for which the National Assembly should hold elections under the legislation in force, the election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council. 11; the election of the President of the Financial Supervision Commission, the election of the President of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors and, on his proposal, four Commissioners, the election of members of the Commission for Protection from Discrimination................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 4. Report on non-constitutional bodies for which the National Assembly should hold elections under the legislation in force. The election of President and six members of the National Council for Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria. In accordance with art. 20, para. 7 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications shall be chaired alternately for a parliamentary session according to the number of parliamentary groups. In this regard, and the decision adopted on 22 December 2021 on the election of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of the special intelligence means and access to the data under the Law on Electronic Communications. 111 of 2021, the chairmanship of the Commission for the Third Session of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly is taken over by the MP Desislava Atanasova from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, first, in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has, by its own orders, authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of military transport planes with crew members of the Japanese Air Force; passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of a military transport plane with crew of the Air Force of New Zealand. The orders issued are within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the passage with a view to the defence of the country. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international sector regimes, mandatory also for the Republic of Bulgaria, permissions to fly over the country's airspace should be granted to the countries concerned after positive opinions from the competent authorities in these areas. The Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Second, in the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its own orders it has authorised the dispatch and use of an airplane to the Federal Republic of Germany and back to the Republic of Poland and back by crew of the military members of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thirdly, the National Assembly informs that soldiers from the joint command of special operations with the necessary equipment, equipment, ammunition and equipment will take part in the international exercise in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The exercise is not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military actions conducted by other The notifications were received from 21 to 29 April 2022, respectively by IC. No 47-203-09-41 to 45 and provided to the Defence Committee. That's why I ran out of messages. Declaration on behalf of "We are continuing the Change" "Please, Mr. Ghurov."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, honourable Bulgarian citizens! We live in the toughest times for Bulgaria and Europe for the last 70 years. None of us expected that there would be a war galloping global inflation and a cruel energy crisis. The time has come to state where we stand and to test our value system. Each MP today bears a huge historical and moral responsibility. Today we are faced with the question on which side of history we are standing on the side of freedom, peace, democracy and prosperity or on the side of dictatorship, harassment of citizens and media, non-compliance with international law and the slaughter of innocent women and children in Ukraine. Will we bow our heads before the racketeer, before the bully, before the aggressor, or will we position ourselves as a leader in the Balkans before the international community? Will we stand up for the Bulgarian interest in energy independence, which will free us from the price blackmail of Gszprom, which we have been subjected to for decades. The choice should not be complicated if the aggressor has not interfered for years in our internal affairs, he has not poured his poisonous propaganda through media, social networks and through bought by him small and large political representatives. What's next for Bulgaria? It's about determination. So far, we from.. Continue the Change... were seen as the new, the inexperienced, the balance sheeters. That time is over! [[Noise.]] The coalition parties united to protect the interests of Bulgarian citizens, to stop corruption and incompetence in government, to guarantee our independence, to make bold reforms, to establish Bulgaria as a strong member of the European Union and NATO. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] So from now on, everyone needs to know that we're continuing the Change...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u9	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u10	...will take on a leading role - a role given to us by the Bulgarian voters as the first political power. I address coalition partners first. We appreciate everything we've done together so far for these five months. Despite the terrible crises and even though we were suffocated by the constant sabotage of the opposition and their toxic footage... [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u11	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u12	...at all levels in the country we have achieved a great deal: First of all, since May 1st, we've been raising the salaries of doctors and nurses by over 25%. [[Voices: "Eee!" and laughter by GERB SDS.]] Finally, after tens of years of draining our doctors and sisters, exsanguination of our health care, we have a government that works for their decent pay. Second, since April 1st, we raised teachers' salaries by over 12%. Thirdly, we have paid huge compensations to the business for electricity and gas in the worst energy crisis in the last 30 years, which all entrepreneurs have received without having to collect and submit documents without lining up. Fourth, we have helped end users by imposing a timely moratorium on electricity prices. You remember some MPs here and other major specialists tearing their shirts off that it would end the world because of the moratorium. Now these people are silent. Fifthly, we voted on a budget following rough sabotage and hoovering by wounded people from GERB and DPS, who made it so that a few days here we could listen to personal explanations, procedures and meaningless speeches. Sixth, we have fixed the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. [[(Shouts: ……]] whose first version would lead to meaningless waste and would once again leave us the poorest and most dependent in all of Europe. Yesterday it was approved by all ministers in Europe. Seventh, we accelerated the work on the interconnector with Greece and announced an order to expand the gas storage facility in Chiren. [[Loud noise, lines and applause by GERB-SDS.]] Projects that were purposely shut down for 12 years...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u13	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u14	...from Borisov and in the service of Putin. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Eighth, we are working rapidly on introducing e-government and dropping hundreds of obstacles, paperwork, and the administrative movement of people. [[Noise and lines from GERB SDS.]] Nine, we're thinking about our elderly people. We continued raising pensions, introduced automatic incentives for pensioners to be vaccinated without making them submit documents and queue up. We provided supplements to pensions and Easter financial support for all Bulgarian pensioners. Tenth, we have restored the real parliamentary control of the Prime Minister and the ministers come here regularly and tolerate the manipulations of the current opposition, which has been hiding its prime minister for years. [[(Applause from.. We continue Change......................................................................................]] Eleventh, we took away the bats and the Pretorian Guard of Prosecutor General Geshev, and Tsatsarov is no longer in KPCONPI. That's what cut off the empty shares against uncomfortable people and the theft of businesses with the help of the D.A.'s office. Twelveth, we made the KEWRC again a competent regulator that monitors the interest of the Bulgarian consumer [[shouts: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB-SDS]] It doesn't serve other people's interests. Dear coalition partners, all this, and it's not very small, we did together, we have, and we will do much more work. It's time to reduce the red lines and bend the arms and continue the change. Let's not forget what the people sent us here for. Let us not forget that we are a team that must roll sleeves for important reforms. We rely on your strong and unified positions in this House, in committees and in the work of the government. Dear colleagues from GERB and DPS, until now you have not been constructive opposition. While you were calling for dialogue with us, you were actually trying to sabotage government and working against political stability in the country. You were trying to achieve your dream of resigning this government. You will not become a constructive opposition if people do not feel at least a little humility and penance for the scandals with bundles, bars, houses, inhouse orders, construction without permission and other unfortunate practices that have made us princes of corruption in Europe. It is no accident that outside your hard electorate and the administrations dependent on you, people do not want to hear about your parties. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] You have a chance to be part of the good decisions for Bulgaria again. It's up to you whether you emancipate yourself from your compromised leaders or let them drag you to the bottom. [[Noise and lines.]] Ladies and gentlemen of GERB, the aim of your political activity seems to be to make your leader happy. Please, until you put Bulgaria's interests first, stay away from the government. Dear Bulgarian citizens, this is what we will continue to work on in the new session of the National Assembly: First of all, the most important thing for us remains the well-being of the common man. We will continue to protect the budget from theft and help citizens and businesses to face everyone in the best way the terrible crisis and get out of it stronger. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] We will continue with the legislative measures against inflation where necessary, we will help businesses, we will help people. The Bulgarians are the poorest in all Europe thanks to 12 years of stagnation. We know that, and we're going to make sure that we soften the price shock as much as possible. Secondly, we will work towards speedy implementation of the legislative reforms needed to implement the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Until now, the opposition has been giving clear signals that it will sabotage its execution. We must therefore, as soon as possible, make changes to the Commission for Protection of Competition, so that we have a genuine independent body that will not hinder so important projects with which we will be able to pour the expected and needed new funds into our economy. The annulment of the disgraced amendment to the Law on Protection of Competition, thereby artificially increasing the mandate of the members of the Commission, as well as the election of a new composition, will restore the independence of the regulatory body. In these times of speculative price increases and the existence of cartel agreements in key sectors of Bulgaria's economy, we need a strong, working and independent Commission for Protection of Competition. Thirdly, the fight against corruption remains in focus during this session of the National Assembly. Following the closure of the bat of the behind-the-scenes in specialized justice, the Commission is on the agenda to counter corruption and take away illegally acquired property. A new draft law is to be tabled by which this institution will be fully reformed. We will release its leadership, which has proved over the years that it does not work for the benefit of society, but for the service of the status quo. We will set up a new Anti-Corruption Commission with all new staff, with high morals and professionalism. This institution will start functioning in full transparency and will investigate impartially former and current politicians, for whom there are signals of corruption, by collecting evidence that Geshev will not be able to close his eyes. In the focus of her work will be those who have long waited for society to explain from where, how and why they have acquired luxury houses, luxury cars, apartments at a priceless price, to explain why their standard of living is at times higher than the income they declare. [[Reply: "Search! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u15	The weather, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u16	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u17	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u18	We are going to have new amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, through which European Delegated Prosecutors will be set up in a separate organisational structure, with a head appointed by the European Prosecutor's Office and with their own administration. This ensures their full independence from the Prosecutor General and allows a full investigation of cases of corruption, fraud and other crimes with European funds to be conducted without Mr. Geshev having the opportunity to place a political umbrella over the guilty persons. We are preparing a whole new law that provides protection to persons who are issuing alerts on crimes committed to a higher degree. The disclosure of unlawful acts, of corruption and of apparent abuses to a great extent depends on the behaviour of individuals who are directly affected or in one way or another have witnessed the same. The envisaged changes give citizens more courage...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u19	The weather, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u20	...to remain blind to numerous abuses. Our call is for the state, society and the business to unite in the name of Bulgaria, which should be followed by political formations for a better future for the common good of all Bulgarian citizens. Let's wish for a successful job because our country needs bold and responsible solutions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[(Extreme applause) (Extreme applause) (Extreme applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u21	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. For a declaration.. Desislava Atanasova on behalf of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u22	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Christ Waxed the Christians, happy Ramadan Bajram of Muslims! Dear colleagues, Passion and Light Week were a time for reflection, for re-evaluation, for asking forgiveness and for making mistakes were a time for repentance. Only that applies to someone who has the fear of God and the shame of people. The leaders of the majority parties have proven that they have no shame from the people, the fear of God. Do you even know what it is? Before Easter, the majority in this House voted 10 days off because, colleagues, you were very tired. You're tired of doing nothing. You're tired of your own management infirmity. You're tired of not being able to make any decisions without violating the Constitution. You're tired of watching the state crash and all its systems fall apart. You are tired of the scandals of your personnel appointments and paint in the ministerial offices. You are tired of listening to your Prime Minister say that he cannot draw up two meaningful sentences in Bulgarian. You're tired of his lies and his associates. You are tired of squirming to get away from the need to make a single choice for civilization. You are tired of thinking about how to pass on the national interest in Northern Macedonia. You're tired of hating and hating each other. You're tired of embarrassing yourself and embarrassing our country. This is all really exhausting. The people are also tired of watching all this, watching your agony. In the last ten days alone, the government appointed by you, freed from parliamentary control, carried out the following: Installing an intermediary in gas supply, thanks to which the gas price will increase by at least 30%. The margin between the old and the new price will be 100 million a month. The new Director of Bulgargaz "EAD" is an employee of the company mediator. Everyone knows the name of the firm and it's clear who benefits from it. The destruction of one of the oldest state-owned enterprises began. Everyone knows the name of your man who benefits from it. An employee of a private electricity trader company has been appointed as director of NEK. Everyone knows who will benefit from it. The export of weapons to Ukraine goes with full force through firm intermediaries. The names of the companies are known, they know who benefits from it. The name of the deputy prime minister in charge of arms deals is also known. The Minister of Innovation announced that the innovation funds would not be allocated by the Ministry, but by a subsidiary private company consultant, of course. Soon we will learn the name of this company and which of Kiro's friendly circle, Asen or Lorere is its manager. Colleagues, what do you think of the Bulgarians? I'm serious. Do you despise them so much that you think you can do whatever you want with them? Do you really think that this will be tolerated long enough for you to treat Bulgaria as an occupied state that you have the right to plunder and destroy? Colleagues from.. We continue the Change......................................................................................... Aren't you ashamed to look into your own constituents' eyes? In fact, do you know who your own voters are? Because people are already ashamed to say they voted for you, but aren't you ashamed of them? Aren't you ashamed of your leaders and how long do you intend to allow them to become rich on your behalf and on our joint account? At what cost do you share and support these outrage that we witness? Colleagues from BSP, there is such a people and a Democratic Bulgaria and you for what and for how much have you sold the trust and hopes of your constituents? We ask the left and right voters, and are they satisfied? Are they satisfied with the prices, are they satisfied with inflation, are they satisfied with the impoverishment, are they satisfied with the increased crime, are they satisfied with the political and moral humiliations to which this ruling majority is subjecting them? What did your political leaders promise you, dear? Maybe spectacles. Did they promise you bread? Or is it just the spectacles for you here, and bread is for each other? And now for the bread, because in the management of GERB there were no so many spectacles, but there was bread for everyone. Now there's no bread. Even the grain that would have provided the bread for the people has not been bought, gentlemen. Now there is no bread for the people, except for a few political leaders and their friends, and for everyone else there are raggedy spectacles. I guess now and on the left and on the right will rise and begin as if in a trance to repeat how bad it was for GERB. They've already started. Don't bother, guys! You're becoming pathetic now. No one's gotten good just because they're explaining how bad someone else is. Everyone knows what kind of merchandise you are. From now on, any bad word against GERB will be taken away from you by one, and to us it will bring one voter. The more you rhyme, the more you bury yourself. Didn't you already experience it or do you want more? At three elections last year the Bulgarian people very clearly said that the government of the country without GERB is not possible. Without us, judicial reform is not possible without GERB no reform is possible. Without GERB no amendment of the Constitution is possible. Without GERB it is not possible to take any geopolitical decision. It is clear to GERB and to everyone in this House that this majority is no longer good to govern the country, but for people it is perfectly obvious. Everyone outside this room sees it, and it is time for you to understand it - you, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, have failed. You cannot and have proved it, you are no longer entitled to practice on the Bulgarian people, while your representatives in the executive power steal as the last. [[(Reply from.. We continue the Change.........................................) Applause by GERB-SDS.)]] Yes! Even President Radev called you charlatans. Mr. Radev, I think I'll ask him what he'll say about the word marauders. Mr. Radev is military and knows what the Marauders are. These are people who use war to loot and steal. So, Mr. Radev, your offspring, those born under the fist, use the pretext of war to steal. Are you going to stop them or can't you? [[Replying: "Search! "]] Will you build anything at all, Mr. Radev, or will you continue to destroy? If the goal is to destroy Bulgaria, your offspring are doing well so far. But do you want to destroy it yourself? Are you going to keep hitting the political system, or are you going to let them destroy our country? What are we going to do from GERB? We from GERB will do the following: we will prepare for elections, we will prepare to take over the country's governance, we will support real reforms, we will prepare them because...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u23	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u24	...change can only be us. Yes, we will finish both health and education and social reform. We will be the ones who will also make judicial reform such that no one can be brought into custody without trial and sentence. We will guarantee justice because we have paid the price of injustice. From now on, we warn you that we will eliminate mediators, missionaries and Marauders, as much as paid protests against us to organize and any manipulations and forgeries to be invented. And last but not least, gentlemen, we will finish all the highways because the Bulgarians so want and because only we can. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS and]] Until then, we'll be here, and we won't let the gang destroy our country, and then we'll put in all the energy and expertise to get it back up again. Christ was raised! Bulgaria will rise after your rule. [[Extreme applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Karadayi, Mr. Stoynev signed up before you for a declaration. I'll give the floor to him and then it's you. [[DPS lines.]] Mr. Stoynev, come in for a statement, and then Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u26	By the order and size of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u27	Okay, Mr. Stoinev, by the size of the groups, I'll give the floor to Mr. Karadayi. [[National Representative Georgi Georgiev wants the floor for procedure.]] Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since we at the ARCHIVER believe that the point of the project of a decision to provide military and technical assistance to the Republic of Ukraine is extremely important for the future of the entire Bulgarian people and because we believe that every Bulgarian citizen has the right to learn how the Bulgarian MPs in the Bulgarian Parliament decide and discuss this topic, we propose that this point be broadcast directly on BNT1 and BNR and put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u29	Is this the only item, Mr. Georgiev? Point two of the agenda? Yeah, thanks. Is there a reverse opinion, colleagues? I can't see. All right, I put to the vote Mr. Georgiev's proposal that the cameras of the Bulgarian National Television and the microphones of the Bulgarian National Radio be included for item 2 of the agenda. [[People from different parliamentary groups enter the Chamber.]] Colleagues, we are in voting mode, we are voting on Mr. Georgiev's proposal for this item 2 of the agenda to be broadcast on BNT and BNR. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] We'll wait a little while longer, as colleagues enter the room, let's give it another ten seconds. They voted 170 MPs: for 76, against 5, abstention 89. That's why the offer isn't accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u30	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u31	It's a re-vote. Vote 184 MPs: 87, against 3, abstention 94. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor for a declaration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u32	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, I congratulate the Easter Christians and the Muslims with Ramadan Bajram and wish for peace, health and prosperity. Dear colleagues, we have heard two declarations that had the same subject and were quite similar. They were similar to one thing that we can appreciate as opposition. In these difficult times, times of crisis and objective times of crises, and subjective ones that also arise from the current power. We have heard the authorities appreciate themselves as a stable coalition and have heard how wonderful the government is. We also heard an assessment of them as people from whom history began. That's their attitude. Nothing new under the sun. That was the case, fellow Members, and in 2009. This presumptuousness and self-sufficientness, which sometimes borders on arrogance, has seen this room recently. It is not something new in this House, but also this historicality, to say it, which you attribute to yourself today, and a Euro-Atlantic orientation that comes from you alone, to remind you of the story does not start from you. From this tribune in 1991 was outlined the country's direction of development, namely membership in the European Union and membership in NATO, after which it was not easy, but agreement was reached between the political forces on this direction in order to reach consensus in society and 2004 Bulgaria to become a member of NATO, and 2007 to become a member of the European Union. This valuable choice has been made, honourable colleagues, and there is no need for this dramatism for the value choices you are trying to identify here today from this House. On the contrary, what you appreciate as a stable coalition, right in your coalition, there is a problem with Bulgaria's value choice, including in today's difficult time. And this coalition, and this power, which appreciates itself for wonderful and wonderful, can only say a few words............................................................................... There are no measures to combat crises that citizens say, and that is what business says, and you hear the opposite from you. A recovery and sustainability plan is still not in place, although we have been listening to it for quite some time and is constantly in your mouth. Operational programs today in these crisis times are still not available in Bulgaria. We have a state budget voted about a month and a half ago, but a month and a half from the day of the vote on this state budget, we are listening to how, at any given moment, we need to update and change this state budget, which means we do not have a state budget. But crises are a fact, people are poor, inflation is going, and you are helping this inflation, but you are not helping solve the crises. That's the main problem. We have understood that there are no measures to combat the crises, but there have been so far, since you are in power, unconstitutional and illegal actions by the current power. By the way, it's the fetus of this power, and the result is that the behind-the-scenes has conquered power. At the moment and from your declaration we see and understand that the goal is to conquer the independent regulators from the backstage and as a final result the backstage to conquer the state. This is your power. Otherwise, every action you have justified by anti-corruption actions and activities, but this activity is represented so far only with the anti-corruption search engine Google. So this government and this cabinet to date can receive the following assessment: the weakest cabinet since the end of communism. [[Applause from the DPS. Revelations: "Bravo! "]] Rather, this government looks like a club of interest rather than a government. We of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are calling in these difficult and difficult times, in these multitudes of crises, to have intelligence, to have wisdom, to call for dialogue between power and opposition. By the way, we see that in power the coalition, within itself, the dialogue is lacking, but in these crisis times we must reach a dialogue between power and opposition in search of solutions in these crisis times. We call for a return to normality in politics! We call for statehood to be restored, and this is done only through democratic instruments and tools, through the rule of law, rule of law, respect and guarantee of the rights and freedoms of all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention! [[(Applause from the DPS. The MPs from the DPS are up. Long applause and cheering: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u33	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. For a declaration from the group of the BSP for Bulgaria and Dragomir Stoynev. Mr. Stoinev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, allow us to celebrate the celebration of Bulgarian Christians and Bulgarian Muslims! Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When a community is under threat, no matter what, history shows that two paths are emerging, or the community is torn apart by the inability to consolidate and lose, or gather, concentrate and move on. We are living under threats that have long surpassed the domestic political quarrels of the past decades a kind of crisis, a global economic stagnation and an energy crisis, and a three-month military conflict. A conflict under our noses and at the same time recreating the so stable-looking status quo in Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. How do we react to threats? More ripped than consolidated. More stared at individual values, ideas, interests than concentrated on general. I say "compartments" because they may be anything for a particular party or group, but they do not run out of the whole context of our national interest. So in a piece we make a policy that logically leads us to results per piece. Two are basically important topics for the Socialists at the moment. The first is related to the state of state and the second is with specific policies. On the subject of statehood. I do not like to speak on behalf of the Bulgarians, but I, as a Bulgarian, want to see consolidated statehood at this time and I think the majority wants this. When the lives of the people in all of their people, workers, young, old, sick and healthy are uncertain when the horizon is unclear, when you can predict your future only a month or two ahead, there is a need for security and the calm power of the state, but lately it seems that we do not see it. On the one hand, the opposition, on the other hand, is the coalition. Opposition and coalition are not in dialogue on national topics. Much more dialogue must be done in the coalition itself. It is also dangerous to break the normal tone between the institutions in the power triangle: Parliament The feeling is for lack of national purpose in the threat situation. What is it to us, representatives of European left-wing values, the national goal in the short, crisis plan? This is a guarantee of the security and stability of the Bulgarians and the Bulgarian economy. Foreign policy positioning, which is reasonable and adequate to the Bulgarian interest. The latter is basically set by our strategic and, I stress, the right choice to be part of the European Union and NATO. But do we not burden ourselves with more requirements and activity than our partners expect? Are we creating additional crises and instability for ourselves because of much closer interests than national ones? The Bulgarian Socialist Party has a clear position on the conflict in Ukraine and on the form of assistance to provide humanitarian support. Why are we fighting so hard in Bulgaria whether to deliver weapons or not instead of looking for another role? We also have the authority, and the potential to be part of each other, a higher conversation about the search for bridges and roads to exit the conflict, because it will end and strategically important in the post-conflict period will be who and how it has positioned itself to solve it. Bulgaria is historically and strategically placed in the heart of the Black Sea region. That'll be it, colleagues, and tomorrow. Here's what should lead national decisions today, that's what we should talk about. Perhaps the voice of the Socialists sounds critical at times. It is certain that this brings us more negatives than positives, but the goal is not discord, but to prevent through common management decisions the extremes of which we witness in both poles. On the subject of specific policies. Here should be the focus, here should be the political energy, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Bulgarians and the Bulgarian economy must feel the state as a stabilizing factor and partner. BSP through its representatives in the coalition is the main generator of anti-crisis policies in the social sphere and in the economy, in particular in agriculture, tourism, the promotion of Bulgarian production, the protection of businesses and households from rising inflation and high prices of energy carriers. In the next parliamentary session, the Socialists will show a very strong legislative programme in the most important spheres so far. The economy more than ever the Bulgarian producers need reasonable state support in any form. Access to energy resources at an affordable price for both business and households. The Ministry of Energy should enter into its functions and protect the national interest. Social policy - non-taxable minimum, reduction of VAT for first-rate goods, increase of the purchase value of pensions. This is a crisis triad, whose decision we must work on concentratedly but also consolidated. And here it is best to be together with the opposition and coalition, the partners in the coalition, too. Whether, when, how will this National Assembly continue or do its work is a very discussed topic, but for us in BSP the topic number one is what this National Assembly will do and how it will continue the country forward.................................................................................. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u35	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Colleagues, are there any other procedures? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given the important topic the whole country is waiting to discuss, and political declarations have been read, which is being shouted, we have wasted enough time and time, we have a procedural proposal from "There is such a people." We propose to withdraw our offer under art. 47, para. 8 for today for the committees, so that we can go to the important topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u37	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Colleagues, other procedural proposals or declarations? [[Heckling]] All right, fellow Members, item one on the request of the importer is off the agenda for today. On the basis of art. 47, para. 5 of the substation I suggest that the same be the first point for Thursday and that we still compensate the group of the "There is such a people" that put the focus on today, and as the first point to consider the topic of providing assistance from Ukraine. I propose that we vote on the proposal I have made, and on amendments to the composition of the Commission, the Decision amending the Decision on the election of the Committee on Budget and Finance and on changes to the composition of the Commission, the Decision amending the Decision on the election of the Committee on Budget and Finance and on amendments to the composition of the Commission, the Decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation to be the first for tomorrow, Thursday. Please, voting mode. Vote 147 MPs: for 146, against none, abstention 1. That's how the offer is accepted. Colleagues, we move on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO DELIVER MILITARY AND TECHNICAL AID TO THE REPUBLIC OF UKRAINE Importers suppose Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs; PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ADVANTAGE THE MINISTER COUNCIL TO PROVIDE MILK-TECTICAL AID TO UKRAINE Importers.? Atanas Slavov and a group of MPs; and PROJECT DECISION ON THE PRESENTATION OF MEASURES WITH REGARD TO WAR IN UKRAINE Importers. "Kalloyan Ikonomov, Atanas Mihnev, Alexander Dunchev and Andrey Gyurov. There is a report received from the Committee on Foreign Policy and it should be presented first. Here you are, Mrs. Lyubenova. You have the floor to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u38	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe concerning: Draft Decision on the provision of military and technical assistance to the Republic of Ukraine, No 47-254-02-35, submitted by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova and a group of MPs on 30 March 2022; Draft decision to award the Council of Ministers to provide military and technical assistance to Ukraine, No 47-254-02-37, submitted by Atanas Vladislavov Slavov and a group of MPs on 1 April 2022 and Draft decision to take measures in connection with the war in Ukraine, No 47-254-02-49, submitted by Kaloyan Tonev Ikonomov and a group of MPs on 20 April 2022. At a regular meeting held on 20 April 2022, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined Draft Decision No 47-254-02-35, Draft Decision No 47-254-02-37 and Draft Decision No 47-254-02-49. The reasons for the draft decisions were presented in the order of their submission, respectively by Ekaterina Zaharieva, MP from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ, by Atanas Slavov, MP from the parliamentary group of The projects provide for the government to provide assistance to Ukraine in accordance with its needs and according to Bulgaria's capabilities. Defence Minister Dragomir Zakov and Deputy Foreign Minister Irena Dimitrova expressed the views of the relevant ministries in support of the adoption of a decision by the National Assembly to assist Ukraine in the war. The members of the Committee on Foreign Policy and other MPs held a discussion on which they expressed their positions on the draft decision submitted by the Parliamentary Group. The main arguments in the discussion, expressed by GERB-SDZ, were in support of the government's involvement in the joint efforts to provide military and technical assistance to Ukraine, while also starting talks with NATO allies about the replacement and strengthening capacity of Bulgaria's defence capabilities. They argued that, in principle, the government has all the power to decide to grant assistance independently without a decision of the National Assembly. Democratic Bulgaria has expressed a position on the need for a decision giving a framework to the Council of Ministers through which it will provide military technical assistance to Ukraine in relation to its needs and in line with Bulgaria's capabilities. We are continuing to change............................. the project of a solution as compromiseable within the coalition, given that the war in Ukraine affects the whole of Europe and that the protection of freedom and democracy is a fundamental value for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian national interest is to have peace on the European continent. The BSP expressed their opinion that it is not necessary to grant a mandate to the government by a deliberate decision of the National Assembly, and that they strongly object to adding a "military" to the "Military" assistance, but consider the draft decision submitted by the.. We continue the Change as engulfing and would support it in its current form. The revival motivated their position by the fact that most Bulgarians do not support the sending of military assistance to Ukraine, and also that if Bulgaria sends one and has to defend itself, it will be deprived of this opportunity due to lack of abilities. Proposals were made for amendments to the draft decision to take measures in connection with the war in Ukraine, No 47-254-02-49, submitted by Kaloyan Tonev Ikonomov and a group of MPs on 20 April 2022, as follows: Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Bulgaria. 2. from the draft decision to add the word "war" to the word "war," Proposal of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. 1 et c. Three of the Project's decision to drop out. Proposal of GERB-SDS parliamentary group to the draft decision to be added item. 2 of the draft decision on the provision of military and technical assistance to the Republic of Ukraine, No 47-254-02-35, submitted by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova and a group of MPs on 30 March 2022. The proposals for amendments were not accepted. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Foreign Policy Committee shall: 1. with 6 votes for the Council, 3 votes against the Republic of Ukraine, No 47-254-02-35, submitted by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova and a group of MPs on 30 March 2022; 2. with 6 votes for the Council of Ministers to provide military-technical assistance to Ukraine, No 47-254-02-37, submitted by Atanas Vladislavov Slavov on 1 April 2022; 3. with 11 votes for the war in Ukraine, No 47-254-02-49, submitted by Kaloyan Tonev Ikonomov and a group of MPs on 20 April 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Lubenova. Colleagues, I would like to make an announcement regarding the point we are currently looking at. A message has been received from the Ambassador of Ukraine in the Republic of Bulgaria to the National Assembly and I will introduce you to its text, although the message has been sent to the e-mails of all MPs. The message reads as follows: Dear Members of the National Assembly! Based on the meeting and talks between the President of Ukraine Volodimir Zelenski and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Kiril Petkov, held in Kiev on 28 April this year, as Ambassador of Ukraine, I ask you to provide the following assistance to Ukraine: 1. Continue support for Ukraine's membership in the European Union. 2. Help for Ukrainian citizens fleeing the war. 3. Provide an opportunity to export Ukrainian grain to Varna. 4. The strengthening of energy cooperation, in particular the supply of electricity from Ukraine and natural gas. 5. Repair of Ukrainian military equipment in the military enterprises of the Republic of Bulgaria. 6. Continuation of humanitarian aid supplies, in particular medicines, clothing and groceries. An importer's opinion? Mr. Mihnev wanted the floor, then Mr. Mitov. Here you are, Mr. Mihnev, you have the floor for an opinion on the importer. 10 minutes you have.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u40	I'm asking for time tolerance because I'm going to make an editorial amendment. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues! I regret that this is how we should start in front of a half-empty hall, especially from the most Euro-Atlantic-oriented parties. I'll miss the calls, but I'll manage somehow.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u41	Don't worry!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u42	As an importer of the Decision on the provision of military assistance to Ukraine, the third in order of.. We continue the Change. I note that for a long time we have been seeking consensus between all parties and between all factions of the already divided Bulgarian society. After reaching such a consensus on 20 April 2022, we have been walking in a minefield of red lines for two weeks now, from neutrality protests on which we see the Russian flag waving at constant political attacks. The common theme of these political attacks is that we continue The Change was weak, it was hesitant that the demand for consensus did not rule that Bulgaria should look strong. Okay, I'm asking: wasn't our government strong when he started accepting refugees on the first day? Were we not strong and solidarity with Ukraine when we started sending humanitarian aid at all to help the Ukrainian people, and not because they are Ukrainians, but because they are the attacked country in a conflict. You know well what the Bulgarian cabinet did for the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainians in Bulgaria, which I think we should be grateful for. At European meetings in European media spoke about Bulgaria, Bulgaria's position on geopolitical issues. For the first time our prime ministers and deputy prime ministers were on the front pages of the world publications not on accusations of corruption, but on the topic of what position Bulgaria has taken and what position Bulgaria formed in Europe. It is no coincidence that we will now have a European gas working group that will gather in Sofia. This is the first time that we are in the world news. In this context, by the way, Parliament issued its declaration at the beginning of the war. Let us remind it and thank our fellow Members, who of all parliamentary groups voted for this declaration, so it can be said that we have been among the other member states of the European Union and NATO, that we have reaffirmed our Euro-Atlantic choice, which has been made long ago. Bulgaria is part of the developed world, of the open economy of the 21st century, of the club of the richest countries and is not part of the spheres of influence and wars of the 20th century. We've continued this effort. In the Foreign Commission, you heard the report, we decided to provide technical assistance for protection purposes, from which, however, a decision in the last two weeks has become a lot of things and it has become much clearer where the world is going. After Putin turned the tap on Europe after rockets flew over our delegation, led by Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, it became clear that there is a war that we cannot close our eyes about, that the world is going towards a long military conflict in Ukraine and long opposition between Russia and the developed world. To our generation, people born after 1989, this seems like Putin is turning the world back 50 or 60 years. This is another crisis that we have to deal with. After the Kovid crisis, I don't know if you remember the impact of the crisis, two years ago there were 5,000 levs. fine, if you walk in the park, and now we have mastered the wool without closing any Bulgarian business. After the current crisis this winter, for which we have also helped, after the gas crisis, it is time to take a position on this conflict, along with our partners. Of course, we have a conscience, we hear that society is divided, we understand that society is divided, and that is why the People's Representatives from But as an importer, I am making the following editorial proposal to amend the text and to add the word "Military" before "Military" as well as to remove the words "for defence purposes" and add the letter by the Ukrainian Ambassador. No AD 47 226-004 by the Ambassador of Ukraine and the opportunities of the Republic of Bulgaria. The so changed point 2, which we propose, in relation to the read letter we received from the ambassador, is the following: No 47-226-004 by the Ambassador of Ukraine and according to the capabilities of the Republic of Bulgaria. This is my editorial amendment. I believe that it is consistent with time and with what has happened, and society is divided anyway. We know what the political chapters in this House are thinking, and they have long formed their opinions, but I would like to explain what we are doing to people, as this explanation from the parliamentary platform I consider necessary. We know we're gonna take criticism on both sides and on the other side anyway. For confident Euro-Atlantics, this decision is too late. For people who are afraid and want us to stay away from war, this decision is too aggressive. The most normal thing is that when a conflict like this happens, you don't want anything to do with it. Either way, whoever's looking for balance and standing in the middle, he's always guilty. Bulgaria has already increased its arms exports anyway, we are already helping in other ways of attacking the Ukrainian people. Either way Putin stopped us the tap of the gas, without which the gas turned out that we could forever. In any case, it always turns out that we could without this gas, for which for three billion they built a pipe without a single tap to Bulgaria in this pipe, the big builders here. We are ready, dear colleagues, to bear our responsibility for this decision which commands us to our partners. Either way, the government's been doing this for a long time. It is time for Bulgaria to cross the red lines and send a message against the war. It is time again to say that we are part of the developed world and to be a reliable partner not only in words but also in deeds. It is time to unite, however difficult this may be, and therefore it is time to unite around the principles of peace and freedom of the 21st century. And in conclusion, since we have taken a long time and today is May 4th and for those who know the work of George Lucas and Star Wars, this is Power Day. According to this author, and according to many other authors the power is on the side of the one who stands on the right and bright side of history, so let's wish, dear colleagues, with this decision: let the power be with us! Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u43	Thank you, Mr. Mihnev. Mr. Mitov's opinion of an importer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before I begin with the opinion, just two words on the just-read letter from the Ukrainian Embassy. It is a shame for the ruling coalition to pressure a state and its diplomatic representation in Bulgaria to send letters to solve internal coalition problems. It's a shame! Such is this letter, and you should not twist the hands of people who are in a difficult situation and need every ally to send you some letters to legitimize certain rotating movements. Otherwise, today the Bulgarian Parliament is about to discuss and decide on a matter which, frankly, could have long been decided by the government. But as Bulgaria is currently governed by a wandering coalition that roams the limits of international relations with a misunderstanding smile, it is the National Representation that must be given the responsibility to do the work of the cabinet. The debate on or against the provision of military assistance to Ukraine has heated the passions in the Bulgarian society and this is normal, given the seriousness of the situation and especially given the amount of disinformation and propaganda flooding the social networks. Therefore, my appeal to those who are speaking on this topic today will be to stick to a serious debate and avoid turning the stands of the National Assembly into a megaphone for the dissemination of unreliable and questionable information. From the very beginning of the Russian aggression against Ukraine, the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS took a clear and unambiguous position: first, condemning aggression and second, calling for any, including military assistance to Ukraine. It turned out that part of the coalition, namely "Democratic Bulgaria" which entered the government with the application, could be a guarantor of the Euro-Atlantic direction of the government's decisions, can guarantee absolutely nothing in this direction. The Bulgarian national interest, as we see it, is for Bulgaria to stand in a clear position reflecting value and civilization choice, reflected in the Constitution and our legislation. Let us be aware that there is a war at the moment that is not only aimed at Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, but at modern democracy and the built architecture of international relations after World War II. The doors of this modern democracy and civilization were opened to Putin's Russia. The Russian President entered the room, looked at the idea of political pluralism, tweakd the concept of the separation of authorities and the independent judiciary, smelled the principles of freedom of speech, assembly and free entrepreneurship, frowned and decided that such a public device had no place in the Russian Federation. He went out and decided to lead Russia along the road of marazma, darkness, nuclear blackmail and war. He decided to return to historically unconstant theories about some particular path and mystical perceptions of the return of some past, illusory greatness and turned Russia into a simple trivial dictatorship, which has long been a threat not only to its neighbours but also global. So far, and now, we are often called for political realism to be cautious and cautious. However, the truth is this: political realism in international relations is expressed in the understanding that the foreign policy of countries reflects the nature of their internal policy and governance. So, first, Bulgaria must answer the question: what is the world in which we want to live a world in which the power of arguments reigns, or a world that relies on the arguments of the power that Russia wants to impose on us? Is it the nature of Bulgarian society and parliamentaryism to bend and squirm under the circumstances or to make the right decisions that are at the height of the moment? From GERB-SDS we know what the Bulgarian state should do at the moment....should provide military and technical assistance to Ukraine while using the circumstances and starting negotiations with our allies for a replacement modern defense capacity. Other countries that cannot be accused of Russophobia have already done so, and I therefore call on you to support our proposal, which only gives the government a clear strategic path and mandate for future action. What has been proposed in the Foreign Commission by.. We continue the Change... I can only describe as a big nothing. The colleague Mihnev just made some change or proposal for change and editing in the text, but the first and third points do not make any sense at all. Firstly, a package to deal with the consequences of sanctions, the government can and must acceptό itself, and it does not need a mandate from parliament for this. The point related to the support of refugees from Ukraine is completely incomprehensible, since this is supposedly already being done, is not it boasting about this, then what does this point do at all in the Project Decision? As far as the wording is concerned, it was a mockery of Ukraine and of the situation in which it is located. I'm glad you at least tried to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u45	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Mr. Slavov, you are welcome for an opinion of an importer on behalf of the group of the Democratic Bulgaria. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, the Bulgarian Parliament will vote on a decision to provide military technical assistance to Ukraine. This decision should have been adopted more than a month ago, when it was proposed by the Democratic Bulgaria. Indeed, the Bulgarian Parliament is late with this debate and is late with the government's mandate to provide military technical assistance to Ukraine, but I hope this debate will not be used to exchange easy criticisms and attacks between the government inside and between the government and opposition. The subject is serious enough to require our responsible approach and solution within today. The draft decision, which the Democratic Bulgaria presented on April 1st after reading on March 30th a declaration from the parliamentary tribune, emphasized that Bulgaria as a member of the two key alliances for our security and development, the European Union and NATO, has certain value political commitments, namely in expression of these commitments and in support of the just cause of the Ukrainian people, we cannot do anything other than provide along with humanitarian, financial and military assistance to Ukraine. As we stress in our draft decision, support for the attackers is a valuable moral and political choice for the victim, which in any case reflects the values and principles of the UN Charter. Support for the defender is an obligation, it is a political and moral imperative and it is not a involvement in war, as various political leaders try to argue. Our draft decision is very clear. He gives a broad mandate to the government to provide such assistance as the Ukrainian side has said, but not now, as we have heard with the letter of the Ambassador of Ukraine and not only at this particular time, but also in a longer period, because it is clear to everyone that this war will last for months, God forbid, and years. Our insistence is within the framework of today's debate when we vote on individual drafts of a solution and perhaps the project proposed by our colleagues from Let us not limit this support to this particular moment, because yes, at the moment Ukraine may need Bulgaria only to repair its military equipment, but at the next moment it will also need ammunition, it will also need heavy weapons, light weapons and any weapons. That is why our insistence is not just to fulfill what Ukraine has asked for, but to give a broad mandate, and this is the logic of the draft decision which "Democratic Bulgaria" has claimed. When we talk about the extent to which "Democratic Bulgaria" can influence its partners in government, let me just say that just a few weeks ago "Democratic Bulgaria" was the only political power in the ruling coalition that stood up for military and military technical assistance for Ukraine. At the moment we have a development, an evolution of the position in the coalition to support such a decision, regardless, I hope, from the visit of the Prime Minister and representatives of the parliamentary groups in Kiev. We did not need to go to Kiev to know that Bulgaria should provide military assistance to Ukraine, but the important thing is that Bulgaria also stood on the map of Europe, going to Kiev and personally giving support to the cause of Ukraine. To conclude, I really call on you to support the draft decision that "Democratic Bulgaria" has been made because it, to the fullest extent we believe, responds to the imperatives that we have to decide "politically, morally, civilizedly," to support our partner Ukraine in the repulsion of barbaric aggression on the part of Russia. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u47	Thank you, Professor Slavov. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion on this point. Mr. Karadaye, come in for a procedure, then a declaration of rebirth.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Tsonev earlier in his agenda procedure made a request that on this point the Council of Ministers in maximum composition should be present here in this Chamber because so far we have heard the opinion of the various importers. Who are the importers? Members of parliament and parliamentary groups! Is there power in the state, is there a Council of Ministers, is there a cabinet responsible for the country's rule? Today, if we are looking at such a draft decision, it should be submitted by the Council of Ministers, not by parliamentary groups or individual MPs. From this point of view, at least in the debate on the submitted projects, the Council of Ministers should be present here in this Chamber, because there are many questions to be answered. One of these questions I'm going to say in metaphorically is: who pays the bill? Who's paying the bill?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u49	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Mr. Kostadinov, you have the floor for a declaration. I remind you that it should not include the topics that are the subject of today's agenda. I hope that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u50	It doesn't have to include?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u51	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u52	Mr. Chairman! I will begin by saying that while commenting on this platform, the beginning of the parliamentary session, somehow all of the speakers have missed one obvious fact that out of the moment, and once again for the last few months, the National Assembly is surrounded. It is surrounded as a camp, not to say anything else, it is surrounded, because a part of our people is 84%, in the words of the Prime Minister himself, disagrees with the policy led by the government and the majority of the MPs present here. I want to remind you of a very well-known fact. When a government goes against the interests of its people, it no longer represents its people. It represents someone else, someone who gives orders, someone who gives instructions, but not these, to call them again using the words of our Prime Minister himself, 84%. From this point of view and in view of what is happening at the moment, there is no longer any dispute that our country is not governed by a Bulgarian government. It's run by something more like an extremist group. An extremist group composed of classical national traitors and former foreign nationals. In just a few weeks, months, they were able to raise our external debt by promiscuous borrowing, to deceive us that they were developing the economy by handing out these loans, some of them to other foreign citizens. In just a few months, the current for business suffocated completely every production, raised the price of food, this process continues and at the moment, inflation has reached the official 12%, and indeed we all see that it exceeds 30, looking at the prices in stores, of course, not the statistics of the NSI. The price of gas is said to rise by 30% at least this is the request of the management of Bulgargaz. How much? No one knows, maybe more. Despite the thorny statements that we can without Russian gas, will we see how?! The Bulgarian government evidently and in this particular case once again showed that it serves foreign interests and for the Bulgarian interest and for the Bulgarian needs of us Bulgarians is deaf, blind and deep asleep. This extremist group, called the Bulgarian government, invited foreign citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u53	Mr. Kostadinov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u54	... in our country and provided them with better living conditions than Bulgarian pensioners, vulnerable social groups in Bulgarian society, parents raising their children in Bulgaria alone, of course, for whom the state has provided 40 BGN but not daily, but monthly. Moreover, the guests invited by the extremist group, known as the government, found themselves with more rights than the host, and in our country the flag of an official and informal institution began to fly a foreign flag. The charity of our people is skillfully used for active propaganda, which suggests this about normal, propaganda, which has so misled some of our compatriots that they are walking in the square and instead of living Bulgaria! According to the Bulgarian legislation, foreign flags have a place in consulates and embassies of foreign countries, and here in Bulgaria, there is one flag - the Bulgarian flag - because when a foreign flag is in Bulgaria of official institutions, it means only one "that our country is occupied." I remind you that this is what the Russians do when they enter Ukraine. They shoot down the locals, put their flag on them. We're doing this voluntarily here, and we're proud of it. Even now a foreign flag stands on the building of Sofia Municipality! How long will it stay, that's another matter, but it's a fact anyway. In practice, our country is currently occupied, occupied by foreign troops that are growing every day and soon, perhaps within the next month, the number of foreign troops present in Bulgaria will be equal to the number of Bulgarian troops, which, in order to still have a balance, is decreasing, led by active anti-Bulgarian policy over the last 30 years, especially since we entered NATO. On top of that, representatives of foreign, dangerous extremist organizations are also allowed in Bulgaria, uncontrollably admitted, of course, who also fly their flags in the center of our capital, and not only there. On top of that, while they wave these flags, the representatives of the Bulgarian government proudly pose for a photo with them. Obviously, all this is not enough for the puppeteers of the extremist organization, known as the Bulgarian government, who now require of him and an official statement that a weapon will be given to the military conflict of one of the two still brotherly countries that are fighting because Bulgaria gives weapons and we all know it, it was said even a little while ago, giving, of course, hidden, unofficial, as unofficially as fat commissions are inserted secretly into someone's government pocket. The conflict between Russia and Ukraine, which caused the Bulgarian intervention after an American briefing, led to sanctions, the price of which we Bulgarians pay and the consequences of which we Bulgarians bear, because none of us doubt that one day soon, representatives of the extremist group known as the Bulgarian government, or will be brought out by American planes, as they did with their Afghan colleagues, or will travel bunkers in a slightly drunken state to be photographed by the cameras of skilled American propaganda workers, while ordinary people are being slaughtered, whether here in the country or outside the country. From all that has been said so far, one thing is certain: the actions of these extremists and serving foreign national interests are leading our country and our people to ruin, and it is not slow doom, but instant, headstrong and instant. Let no one make the illusion that we Bulgarians do not see what is happening. This government wants war, let these proposals be voted on in parliament. If the government wants this war, they'll get it. We Bulgarians will give it to him. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u55	For a statement, colleagues? Mr. Gurov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A little more than two months ago, a sovereign country was attacked treacherously and treacherously, which set an example and continues to show the whole world what national pride and faith in the own forces of its single people means. Today media, trolls and politicians, foreigners, including here in parliament, scare us day and night...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u57	Where is the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u58	...we're scared that we're going to be involved in a war. Before we decide anything, today we need those who frighten people to answer a few simple questions. Firstly, who attacked an independent state in the centre of Europe with a full-scale war, killing women and children, destroying homes, hospitals, schools, factories and infrastructure? Who made out of five million European citizens refugees? Who marauders and steals from murdered people TVs, washing machines, irons, mixers? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Secondly, who declared us an enemy state long before we decided to provide military assistance? Who stopped us from supplying gas in gross breach of contract? And most importantly, let those who frighten us tell us clearly who we are afraid of? Who is this country that threatens war? Why don't those who scare us with it name it? Is this Brother Russia, Brother Russia attacking us? And if so, what remains for us to bow our heads, wait to see if Putin attacks us? Well, we waited! We've been waiting to see if he's going to attack Ukraine. Then we waited to see if he'd call us enemies. We've been waiting to see if the gas will stop even though we're paying as a reliable partner. What and how much longer do we wait? If, due to the indiscretion of its leaders, brother Russia today poses the greatest threat to us, who can protect us? Let's say very clearly and hear all Bulgarian citizens: Bulgaria can stop any threat because Bulgaria is NATO, because Bulgaria is the European Union, because Bulgaria is not a small country that should behave obediently towards the one that is racketeering it. Bulgaria is part of the most powerful military union in the world and the richest union in the world, alliances that everyone respects and that no one dares to attack. Our task today is not to repeat the mantra for a great threat from someone. Our task today is to show and strengthen our position as safe partners in NATO and the European Union, because only they guarantee our security and because, while we are a reliable NATO member, no one can even think of threatening us militaryly. Estonia is a NATO member, has a huge common border with Russia and is 150 km from St Petersburg, Latvia is a NATO member, has a huge common border with Russia and is 600 km from Moscow, Finland and Sweden are also neighbours of Russia and are already seriously considering applying for NATO membership. All these countries have openly supplied weapons to Ukraine from the very beginning of aggression. I ask: are they involved in the war, are all other NATO members involved in the war that provide military assistance to Ukraine? Such aid already provided Greece, Croatia, Belgium, Germany, Denmark, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, the Netherlands, Spain, France, Czech Republic. The European Union as such sends military assistance for more than 1 billion. Seven hundred million. Euros. The partners from NATO "US, Canada, Great Britain, Turkey, Norway" are one of the largest donors of military aid to Ukraine. Today from this tribune I want to say very clearly: there is only one way to be involved in war and it is Russia to win in Ukraine. What, then, does our offered false neutrality mean? It means betraying our allies, standing by and waiting to see if Russia decides to attack a NATO state. Neutrality means helping the aggressor and letting him come then knock on the door of Moldova, Romania or our door. That's the real danger to us. It's the only way to get involved in a war. We are continuing the change since the beginning of the conflict is a very important Bulgaria supports the territorial integrity of Ukraine; we are joining the position of the international community to condemn the announced military actions by Russia; we are joining the calls for a deescalation of tensions. As a predictable and reasonable partner in the European Union and NATO in terms of the decision to be taken today, the Change will support the provision of military technical assistance to Ukraine according to the capabilities of the Bulgarian and the needs of the Ukrainian country. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u59	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Are there any lines, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Taslakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ghurov, since you are suggesting that Russia may attack a NATO state and that it is a threat, I just want to ask you: who first started the aggressive acts against Russia; who first closed its airspace; who first closed its ports to Russian ships; and who actually fueled the aggressive actions leading to war? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u61	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. Are there any other lines, colleagues? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] There are no other lines. Would you like a double, Mr. Gurov? No. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Gazhev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 24 February this year, the Russian Federation attacked an independent and sovereign Ukraine, which started an unprovoked war on the territory of Europe. This is another rude violation of international law, including the UN Charter and the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. For nearly two months, and more, brutal acts have been taking place, including war crimes against civilians, which we have all seen, thousands have lost their homes and millions have fled the war in other countries. The reconstruction of the country's ruined infrastructure and economy will take a decade. By defending its own territory and independence, Ukraine protects not only itself, but also the freedom and democracy of all of us..... the right to self-defense, which is the foundation of international law. Supporting the victim in no way means getting involved in the conflict or its escalation. Currently, 28 out of 30 NATO countries without Bulgaria and Ukraine, in fact, all countries in the European Union, are helping Ukraine with military and technical assistance to protect its population and territory. None of these countries have become part of the conflict and are involved in military action. Even the Republic of Turkey is one of the countries that helps with many military assistance Ukraine, but this does not prevent the Russian foreign minister from attending conferences in Turkey. These are, by the way, some of the reasons we've put in place our draft decision. Unfortunately, the government's position so far has been downgrading and hypocrisy. Some pretend to be hawks, but in fact, the entire government behaves like a little dove. To the criticism of demagogy, I can add hypocrisy, and with several examples: let's not forget the expression of a rocket station which was followed by coffee with Mitrofanova; the operation in Mariopool on the extraction of Bulgarian sailors, announced by this tribune by the Prime Minister, which actually became their advertising rescue through Sochi; first we closed our airspace for Russian aircraft, but this did not prevent Easter from allowing a Russian government plane twice to pass through the air space of Bulgaria. After the words: the bullet for Ukraine, which were spoken, can be added without a problem: without the commission concerned. No one is saying that the provision of military assistance should be free of charge. Many countries used military assistance to solve their own problems of national security, while our government, before taking a break, slept even during the visit of the US Secretary of Defence and the Ukrainian Foreign Minister. I'll give you a few examples. Poland provided 200 T 72 tanks, but for them it received British tanks. I merely point out that one was produced in the 1980s and the other after 2000, but this is in principle a drop in the sea of military aid that Poland provides. Has anyone attacked them so far? No. Even the gas didn't stop them, or rather, they stopped it just for a day. Slovakia provided its Es-300 systems while the Russian government hid, and instead they received modern "Patriots" systems from Germany for unlimited time. By the way, Slovakia has been selling artillery systems to Ukraine at the moment and is negotiating for the repair of tanks and their fighting funds since mid-April, but they are somewhat closer to Ukraine. I don't know what you think we'll be able to repair?! But we'll get there. They do, even though they're 80% dependent on Russian gas. Despite all the help Slovakia has given Ukraine, did the Russians stop their gas?! No. But on the other hand, our bowed heads in their government were cut off. The Czech Republic sent T-72, artillery, BMP-1 and will receive replacement funds in exchange. This is an opportunity to quickly get rid of the old Soviet weapons and replace it with modern and compatible with our allies, and without spending hundreds of millions of levs on modernization by the Bulgarian taxpayer. The smart countries of Eastern Europe used these mechanisms not only to help Ukraine, but also to modernise their own armed forces. But the ostrich position that you took deprived us of this opportunity. Thanks to your incompetence, we are now neither with our own or foreign among foreign people, and none of these countries will show respect for the Bulgarian position. By the way, Bulgaria has surpluses of such weapons and ammunition, which it could replace with modern, and timely to provide Ukraine. Such an approach, first, will be in the spirit of everything we talk today about solidarity to the victim, second, will save money to the Bulgarian taxpayers, and third, will quickly modernise the entire elements of our armed forces. It was rightly noted here that even Luxembourg provides military assistance. Giving weapons doesn't mean entering the war in any way. That was never true. It was not true when the United States provided Britain and the USSR with weapons during World War II. The United States is entering the war for a very different reason. It is also not true when the USSR provided arms to North Vietnam during the Vietnam War or the United States of Afghanistan. I will give you an example that you will be able to understand, the BCP for 40 years sends weapons to almost all the hot spots in the world in the conflicts that have arisen through South America, through Africa, through Asia, to the Middle East. Curious is the example of Iran and Iraq during their war, when Bulgaria supplies both sides of the war. You have to remember that and understand that. However, this is a business in quotes controlled by State Security, but not directly by the State, but through intermediaries. Maybe that's why he was created and Kintex?! Therefore, honourable colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" may ask their coalition partners from the State Security how they are currently organizing the supplies for Ukraine, because in this case there is such a people who use you for useful idiots. This is what I say in the political term because, while we are tearing up the shirts, you especially, the business is going well and sales to Ukraine have reached such sizes that the weapons factories work on a 24-hour regime to produce the agreed production. Both Cornelia Ninova and Kiril Petkov know that very well, but prefer to do it under the table. However, there is a reason that is far different from the electorate of BSP. These are intermediaries and commissions. Just as once State Security has organized weapons supplies at hot spots around the world, so now the government of change is organizing sales to Ukraine. What are you doing right now? Manufacturers sell to Bulgarian intermediaries that sell to foreign intermediaries, and they already provide it in a direction. The evil languages, by the way, say that four Bulgarian companies are these intermediaries. Even state-owned companies sell through these intermediaries, not for example through the Kintex, as is its role. Or put another way: a company is placed at the exit of every military enterprise and if it wants to work, it must go through the relevant intermediary. Exactly, by the way, as you put in the energy, intermediaries who only resell and make huge profits at the expense of Bulgarian producers. That's all this government seems to know. And how are these intermediaries selected now you should already ask the Prime Minister. What do we want from you? To brighten this sector and let our allies the Ukrainians, and especially the Bulgarian society know what the government is doing. The Russians know it anyway. By brightening sales and putting them over the table, not under the table, as you are doing right now, anyone who produces or has stock will be able to sell directly without intermediaries. Just disconnect the industry from the intermediaries you put in. A few words about this frank nonsense, which, by the way, was launched in the last week, namely to repair Ukrainian equipment on Bulgarian territory. Whoever suggested this thing, by the way, to Zelinski, must have lied to his face. How could this happen? Let's think this through. Of all the elements of the Bulgarian state military industrial complex to start from the fleet arsenal. He can do certain ship repair activities, only Ukrainian ships cannot come to Bulgaria, as the Black Sea is blocked by the Russians. Both companies can also make certain repairs of flight equipment, helicopters, but for example fins, rotors and other components do not have them as spare parts, do not produce them, but purchase them from the manufacturer. Who is the manufacturer of these parts?! Russia. What?! Can you imagine buying spare parts from Russia to repair Ukrainian planes?! Please! But let's say that the Ukrainians still decide to take a damaged tank or MT-LB, or GNP out of the battlefield, put resources and fuel and human labor to load it on the train, drive it across Ukraine, all over Romania, and bring it to Terem, Targovishte, and decide that all this is worth, what will happen there? Do any of you know what the possibilities of "Terem" to repair such a technique really are? Just look at what happened to the modernization of the Bulgarian T-72, which did not participate in battle fights, what a challenge it was for the plant to precisely supply spare parts and purchase them, and even if they find them, such repair takes months, sometimes years. So you have two options, if you decide to make similar repairs and the National Assembly, and you decide to support it, the first will mean to open the wartime reserve kits, i.e. the wartime reserves of Bulgaria in order to search for similar parts, and the second is to cannibalize some Bulgarian tanks or BTRs in order to be able to pick up spare parts. If you tell me that with this decision you take responsibility for fulfilling one of these two options, okay, then you'll do something after all. Otherwise, you offer us one lie or another in Bulgarian: it is possible to lie to you, which depicts a situation where one lies to another in the most simple way possible because he is absolutely sure that his lie will pass. And all this, if anyone in Ukraine ever gets over the head to carry all this equipment to Bulgaria and not for example to Slovakia, which borders Ukraine and with which they already have contracts to repair the same equipment. So answer me: how will this actually happen; how will this repair be carried out, because technically and logically this is impossible? If we're going to give something in return, that's another question. In other words, we take repair equipment and in the meantime provide Bulgarian equipment to the Ukrainian country. By the way, they've already flown to Poland. We've seen the photos, but at least say it clearly, and don't be silent. And here comes the big question: what are you actually planning with this military technical assistance? Can anyone explain to me what the expression military technical means? By the way, that's a Russian expression. Military technical exists only in Russian specialized literature. It does not exist in Western terminology. In Western terminology there are military and technical.. they are two different things. If we are to assist Ukraine with Russian terminology, well, that is your responsibility. Because if all military technical, quotes, help is expressed in unrealistic repair of equipment, then you really do absolutely nothing. But to summarize what we are actually proposing with our draft decision. We give you freedom in three directions. Use the moment to replace the old Soviet weaponry in our army with a new and western one by providing it for Ukraine. The smart Eastern European countries, as I said, have already done so. Officialize arms sales, anyway. Let us make it clear as a state, at least we will have a clear position, not like now. This will also help the military industrial complex by selling its production at real prices rather than at the prices to which the intermediaries give it. Well, right, some commissions will dry up, but at least it will be official and it will be above the table, not under the table as it is now, and we will have a clear position where Bulgaria stands on the international stage and not ostrich politics. This will also give you the opportunity for deeper negotiations with our allies to increase Bulgaria's defence capacity, but a much better opportunity to deepen our relations with Ukraine and the opportunities for Bulgaria to participate in its post-war recovery. What you're offering us is a solution emptied of content. Everything else in the Draft Decision, which is proposed by.. We continue the Change........................ the student copy of the declaration already adopted by the National Assembly.... says nothing new. Thus demagogically twisted, the solution for military technical, if someone can explain to me what it means, help should only be limited in a realistic possible future repair of something and is a sad position, saving a cowardly rule of the principle: Where does Bulgaria stand, where does it see its future, which principles assert those of Helsinki or those of Yalta? And the deals under the table will continue to go away, and everyone hypocritically pretends that nothing happens. So the marauders will continue to marauder. There is no sane person, no matter on which side of the debate it is to be convinced of this position. And your red lines, ladies and gentlemen of the "Democratic Bulgaria" have faded. And today, by the way, we have heard from your coalition that 30 years of democracy, peace and prosperity in Europe is a status quo. I'm going to finish with a thought by Elie Wiesel a Nobel laureate for peace since 1986. I think it's nice to hear it: We should always take sides. Neutrality is in favor of the abuser, never the victim. Silence encourages tormentors, never tormented. " - Ps. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u63	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Tsoncho Ganev, and Iskren Mitev for the second.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u64	Mr. Chairman, expected statement by GERB. They are at least consecutive from the first day calling for the sending of military equipment and ammunition to Ukraine. The same thing we heard from the Democratic Bulgaria. Once again they called for sending military equipment and ammunition to Ukraine. It is also clear that the position of the Revival is strongly against all this madness. Today, however, I am extremely puzzled by what we have seen and heard more recently by the Changing Continue. Initially their proposal was withdrawn, a new decision was given in addition, then became Mr. Gurov and said...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u65	Mr. Ganev, your line should be to Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u66	And he said they'd support sending military equipment. Now, Mr. Gazhev, you're wrong when you're so fiercely painting in a non-sequence. We're continuing the Change. I was going to say the exchange, I apologize. But what we have seen today is exactly what we say at the first moment that we will not send military equipment to them, after which the chairman of their parliamentary group says that he will support this particular thing. I ask the coalition partners to sit down, to understand in the end what they will support, as we are hesitant about what they want. We have also heard the definitions of Democratic Bulgaria that they are useful idiots, this cannot be overlooked, but we agree. [[Radio and applause from ARRANGEMENT.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u67	Mr. Ganev, please treat the other MPs in the Chamber with respect. Your attitude is not correct. Mr. Mitev, you have the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gajev, I agree with some of the things you said, but I disagree with something, and it is that your proposal offers military assistance, our military assistance, which does not exclude military assistance. So I don't understand where all the contradiction comes from. Military assistance includes military assistance, Mr. Gajev. So, I think the position is pretty clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u69	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line? Mr. Bachiisky was first, Mr. Ananiev. I'm recording you, Mr. Karadaye. There will be a break, Mr. Karadaye, at 11:30, to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u70	Mr. Gazhev, I've listened so carefully to you, I've seen your proposal several times, but there are some things I want to clarify. As they say, the devil is in the details. In your proposal for military assistance, I could not understand what size you propose it to be. As you know, most countries that have offered military assistance usually announce what size they are or what they involve. I want to find out, first of all, what military assistance do you offer, in what size? Where will the money come from, too, care if it's some sort of reassignment? Then, this help will be a grant, or will be a type of lazy sheet, as for example America now offers 20 billion, but therefore not free, but with pay in time and so on. So your idea of what exactly is.. what does it involve? In what volume? How will it be funded and whether it's a grant, if you can answer me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u71	Thank you, Mr. Bachiysky. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman! First, dear Mr. Ganev, the term "useful idiot" was used as a political term. Google colleagues can read the definition on Wikipedia. As much as Mr. Mitev, you first. Speaking of military technical assistance, come on, if you can explain what military technical assistance is. Because so far, I haven't heard any of the representatives of the importers who offer military technicality explain exactly what that term involves. The term, as I said, is Russian by the way, the Russians have their definition of it, maybe you can read it and see what the differences are. Because correct would be military and technical. And here I come to Mr. Bachiiski. The big problem in the whole thing. As you are confused, we are all confused for the simple reason that things turned out thanks to the inadequacy of the government. All the other countries have a Council of Ministers who knows what he's doing. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Bulgaria. For all the other countries that you set out for example the Council of Ministers or their governments have decided what they want to provide, whether it will be free of charge, whether it will be requited, by the way, most of the countries that they provide provide, provide retribution. One doesn't rule out the other. But this is a decision of the Council of Ministers. Our proposal is simply that the Council of Ministers should do its job. How the Council of Ministers will do it depends on him to what size, whether it is free or not. In this case, as I have cited several examples, I was hoping that you had heard them, it was about State aid, which is retrievable. In other words, both Slovakia and Poland and the Czech Republic receive something in return. This was also on the table for Bulgaria. And that Bulgaria slept through this moment is another matter. It could have been realized, the government could have handled it more responsibly and with more depth and thought about the future, but it did not do so because of its internal political problems in the support of the coalition and its glass legs. Therefore, the decision must depend on the Council of Ministers. By the way, if you had attended the various discussions in the committees of the drafts for a decision, the Council of Ministers came up with the following opinion that we would even take this decision, the Council of Ministers would still be analyzing what it could do, which would take him a few months again, and then propose to the National Assembly to ratify the aid in question. That is, the proposal that we continue the Change you have tabled, and what will happen is a big nothing. We will make a decision that is completely emptied of content, which does absolutely nothing of what you are proposing. On this basis, the Council of Ministers will analyse the next few months whether to do something or not, and then, if it eventually decides to do something, it will bring it back to parliament, possibly autumn. Here is your adequate, fast and timely policy, unfortunately. And as for the way things are going to go from here, and how much the government actually intends to provide any technical or military assistance, because, by the way, the vests are military help, if they're from the higher class, which doesn't stop just bullets from guns.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u73	Time, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u74	And I seriously doubt that the Council of Ministers will provide anything that even one tank or one BTR will come to repair in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u75	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Colleagues, let me read you a message. From 11.30 in the European Corner will be opened an exhibition of children's drawings on the theme "The Land" our heritage and our home. The presented works are of students from 122 innovative elementary school - Nikolay Liliev, which celebrates his 60th anniversary. There will also be an official program, which, as I said, starts at 11.30 am. The exhibition is initiated by the parliamentary group of the party. Colleagues, Mr. Hamid, let's hear from you in... or very quickly. Yes, come in, Mr. Hamid, and then a half-hour rest, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very quickly in the manner of keeping, so that we can also use the rest that you give in a moment. Call the Minister of Defense, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister to come here immediately. To use the time of rest for the journey, because this is the topic of the themes. There is no way the ministers and the prime minister in question can be absent on this subject. When I listened to Mr. Ghurov this morning that the Prime Minister always responded when he was invited, I said to myself: "Okay, we'll invite him, he'll come today." And when I come out here and say they're hiding like mice, everyone gets angry and says, "No one's hiding like mice." Even the Prime Minister came to explain to me: I am not a mouse. I never hide from anything. Are they afraid of Mitrofanova? Why aren't they here? Get them to Parliament immediately! [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u77	Mr. Hamid, the National Assembly meeting is being broadcast, so the representatives of the Council of Ministers may be watching what is happening here right now. Colleagues, break till 12:00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u78	I'm resuming the hearing. We'll continue the discussion, colleagues. Mr. Karadayi for speech, and then Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Many are awaiting news today in the National Assembly on the draft decision or draft decisions submitted by parliamentary groups or individual MPs. On this subject, I would like to make it clear that the news has long been that there is no Council of Ministers, there is no power, and they are not at the moment. Officially there is a Council of Ministers, but the current one is the weakest cabinet since 1990. Since February this has been necessary with particular weight. It was news that the National Assembly at all has a declaration on the occasion of the war because the DPS insisted to accept the declaration submitted by GERB because the Council of Ministers and the ruling majority did not have an adequate position. It's the same today. Today, the National Assembly was to consider a draft submitted by the Council of Ministers, not a draft submitted by a parliamentary group, and that is to say, note a parliamentary group of the opposition, and the Council of Ministers is absent on these issues. Today the decision is clear: Bulgaria has made its choice to be part of Euro-Atlantic structures, choosing European values as its own, becoming part of NATO and the European Union. In essence, however, today's decision is a vote of no confidence in the government. Bulgaria made this choice after a long and difficult journey, but made it unified and convinced by turning membership into Euro-Atlantic structures into its national cause. Building its democratic history, Bulgaria has made an attempt to break with its communist past and become a worthy member of the European family, providing a European standard for all its citizens, as well as providing guarantees for the security of the country and the state. Bulgaria implemented these national priorities because there were national responsible parties because there were political leaders with state-owned thinking and behaviour. And we of the DPS proudly state that we are part of this process. Moreover, our Honorary Chairman Dr. Ahmed Dogan was among the first architects and main drivers of this process. Historically, the coincidence between the forty-fourth extraordinary meeting of the Thirty-eighth National Assembly on May 4, 1999 and today's May 4, 2022 is very great. And by the way, I recommend that not only historians get acquainted with Mr. Dogan's statement in the debates at the historic meeting on finding a solution for the Yugoslav crisis in the distant year 1999 but not so far away, but all those with regard to national security and the future of the state. Just then Bulgaria gave a clear sign of its orientation in a brave and unwavering way. Today, the big questions ahead of the future of Bulgaria should have remained in the past, and that is not the case the answers are in the lack of adequate governance of the country. Coalition, which is a collection of ideas incompatible parts, in the absence of a vision for the development of the country, without an action plan, is a problem rather than a solution to the problems of the Bulgarian society, which is why we are in this unlike situation. Not just unresolved problems, but deepening existing and setting new problems and crises without a growth plan in a situation of war. And this situation has an explanation for the lack of responsible management. Lack of adequate position of the Council of Ministers led to the situation of an opposition parliamentary group to submit a draft decision. A lack of adequate majority management led to the silence in the National Assembly in anticipation of opposition forces voting for the adoption of the decision. Today's vote is a vote of no confidence in this government. It is high time for Bulgaria to be managed by responsible politicians and statesmen who have the courage to offer solutions in the perspective of national interest. The DPS is designed to ensure the dignity of every person and his inalienable rights, which is the basis of freedom, justice and peace, and works for public progress and to achieve a better level of living in greater freedom. DPS is a nationally responsible party with a clear Euro-Atlantic profile and consistent policy. Our position is clear and there is no news in this regard. But it is unworthy at responsible moments to expect a responsible position from the DPS and beyond these moments to fight with all their forces against the DPS and their resources to be nothing but lies and suggestion. By the way, so was 1999. The DPS was declared a curse by the then prime minister. It's been like this for the last 12 years. As in all these years, the DPS remains faithful to its responsible position on the future of Bulgaria as a member of NATO and the European Union. Although there will be a solution today thanks to the opposition, it is with concern to note the lack of political dialogue. Dialogue is important and it is necessary. There is no dialogue between government and opposition. There is no dialogue even between the government and the trends are not encouraging. And there are many moments, not only like this, when dialogue is vital, but in order to have political dialogue, it takes not only experience, it requires respect, tolerance, sincerity, courage, openness, willpower, wisdom and thought about the future of the state. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I call on all nationally responsible parties to adopt only the dignified solution led by the position of members of the Euro-Atlantic structures, which are the only guarantee of peace and prosperity. It is the only way to protect democracy and ensure a decent place for our country and Bulgarian citizens on the future map of Europe. Responsible decisions require courage. The future of our children obliges us to show that courage and to be determined and united. Only with decisive action can we begin the process of reconciliation and peace. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u80	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Is there a line to Mustafa Karadaye? I can't see. Come in for a statement, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In my opinion today is a crucial day for Bulgarian politics and these are not strong words, and I am sure that every MP realizes this. I am convinced that every single MP understands what choice we are faced with. A day that will be remembered by both us and our future generations because today Bulgaria decides whether to be part of a military conflict or to be part of its peaceful solution. BSP has always treated Bulgaria's membership in the European Union and NATO with respect, and I say so because many people have talked about the European Union and NATO from this platform today. I recall that it was our President who signed our pact for joining NATO and a BSP Prime Minister who signed our accession to the European Union, and we are about our country being a loyal and consistent member of the Pact. But I would like to make it clear that art. 5 of the Washington Treaty has not been activated and we do not have such a hypothesis, so let's not be too aggressive about armaments when it is not required by our signed documents. Giving military assistance to Kiev would make Bulgaria a direct participant in the military action because our bullets, our ammunition will kill people and destroy homes, and our weapons will shoot. So not to the war and not to participate in it! And this position of BSP is not subject to change either today or ever. I am convinced that it is most democratic, fair and honorable that our country should hold a referendum on or against such action! The Bulgarian people are wise and I believe that they will not be wrong when we politicians are at a crossroads! I can guess what the outcome of this referendum will be, because I am sure that our compatriots would always choose the path of peace. I'd go one step further. Bulgaria not only has to choose this path, but also remain on the basis of a future peace process. As Slavs, brothers and neighbors, we could try to repair what was done and glue what was broken. Bulgaria could be hosting negotiations and even at a Russia summit, Ukraine, as difficult as it may be, as impossible at this stage. I think this suits Bulgaria and Bulgarian politics because we are together around the Black Sea because we are brothers and because we are Slavs because we are neighbours and have always found a way to each other! It's a terrible war. It erases cities, families and traditions, it's less than 300 kilometers from our borders and we can't stand by and not realize how close we are to this fire! We must not forget that this war is not just between Russia and Ukraine alone, it is a war between the Great Powers in the territory of Ukraine and it is a fight for world domination. Dear colleagues, history teaches us a lot of things. The question is to be able to read this story. It should not be measured with double archin when bombardments occur in countries near Bulgaria, and now that the same bombings are happening in another country, we should always look at the same way in the war, because this is the worst thing that can happen! We need to remember the further story, because this room knows a lot of ups and downs. It was here on 13 December 1941 that Bogdan Filov declared war on the United States of America and on England and all the people's representation stood up and applauded a shameful part of our history. Therefore, I think it is appropriate for our national representation to be wise and careful when it comes to war and war conflicts. That is why we call you to this wisdom for national interest! We urge you not to give weapons and ammunition! To be a loyal partner, but not to cross a line that would lead us into other conflicts! I hope that, indeed, every Member of the National Assembly is aware of his responsibility to take on today. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u82	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Replies from Mustafa Karadaye and Lyuben Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gutsanov, as a reply, I would like to remind you that if, in 1999 on 4 May, the right decision had not been made here in this House, and we were going in the direction of referendums, another is the question: for what can and cannot legally be held referendums, today we would not be a member of NATO and the European Union. I think there's no question about that. That's one of my subjects. The other subject. You very accurately and correctly said that the BSP Prime Minister signed the EU membership document. Isn't that right? But it would be right for you to tell the House a Prime Minister with the mandate of a Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Applause from DPS.]] That's right, guys. In complex, in difficult, in important times, a Movement for Rights and Freedoms has found the consensus for the right decisions of the state. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u84	Thank you. The third line will be from Dimitar Gochev to alternate the groups. Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u85	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov, for the historical parallels, because they are important today, and the decision we are about to make must be built on some collective memory, because I do not very much hope for collective wisdom. You mentioned it, but thanks to this particular wisdom for more than 500 years the capital of Bulgaria was the beautiful city of Istanbul. When you mentioned the decision they made here with the acclamations of Bogdan Filov, it was appropriate to mention perhaps that Russia, for example, entered Bulgaria, declaring with nothing an unprovoked war, three years later. But the more important historical parallel is another If Europe had the same voice as it does today in terms of Russia's invasion in Ukraine, during Germany's invasion in the Czech Republic, maybe World War II wouldn't have had it at all, if it spoke in one language, if it didn't think what would be good, didn't make thin bills to annoy the big partner, not to irritate the industrial power of Germany that was rising. So it is really nice to be aware of these parallels and once again Bulgaria does not take on the role of a little pregnant on some problem. We are a NATO member, we are a member of the European Union, and what is required of our membership is more than clear to put it further in rhetorical formulas, of which things are only becoming more confused, not clearer. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u86	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Dimitar Gochev for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gutsanov, two points on your speech. First, you used the phrase "Slavian and Brotherly Peoples." I'm not sure we can talk about Slavic brotherhood anymore and I'm worried that maybe Russian aggression, Russian tanks in Butcha killed this Slavic brotherhood. For what you said that Bulgaria should fight for a summit between the warring countries. There was such a meeting in Belarus one of the countries that supports Russia. There was such a meeting in Turkey, one of the countries that armed Ukraine. This type of downgrading and failure to provide assistance would obviously not lead to the goal that you set for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u88	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. Here you are, Mr. Gutsanov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gochev, I think we should do everything we can to ensure that there is a peaceful process and dialogue is the key, not war! So I would never give up all kinds of conversations and all kinds of experiences and opportunities. As for what Mr. Luben Dilov said, yes, I think there really should be collective wisdom and memory. And I am convinced of those words. We must learn from what has happened so that we do not make mistakes. That's the big point of learning history. I hope that the decision of the National Assembly will be wise and nationally responsible. I am glad that we are really thinking today about what lies ahead and what we are doing, which is good for this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u90	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Mr. Kostadinov, shall I put you down for a statement? Okay, I'm recording you. Rumen Hristov. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, today's vote is extremely important. It will reaffirm Bulgaria's place, which was chosen many years ago, with the efforts of many Bulgarian politicians. I want to tell you that this decision that we made then and that we are going to make today is not easy. Politicians, especially the government, have to make difficult, unpopular, but visionary decisions about where Bulgaria will be in 5, 10, 15 and 20 years. We can see that from all countries, only two members of NATO, Hungary and Bulgaria, do not support with military equipment and ammunition the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian state. I will use the words of a respected lawyer and colleague of mine Mrs. Iva Miteva in recent months. She said power stops power. Ladies and gentlemen, weapons are holding back and military equipment is holding back. The pacifist statements in this direction: let us not give weapons and ammunition to end the war faster, mean giving the aggressor the opportunity to Putin's Russia to end the war as soon as possible! And when the war in Ukraine is over, who's next? Are we asking ourselves that question? And if we want to draw a parallel with the past, let me ask: what happened in World War II? Did the United States of America, which stood so many miles away, have to give these sacrifices? They gave more than 110,000 victims so they could stop Hitler's aggressor. What would have happened if the Soviet Union hadn't been helped back then?! Where would Hitler have gone? What would have happened to the Soviet Union, would he have won? And one more thing. Bulgaria at the time was a member of the coalition related to the Third Pact, but did not send any soldier to the Eastern Front. However, this is in no way later in favor of Bulgaria, and you remember it, and you know it! On the other hand, Bulgaria is occupied. For more than two years, we have a Soviet army here, which we support tens of thousands of Soviet soldiers. [[Reply.]] It's not a lie you'll disprove me if you want. And Bulgaria sends three armies to the second part of the war and loses, if I am not mistaken, about 9,000 people died, about 9,000 missing and 25,000 wounded. The downfall you are proposing to do right now does not mean that we will become the favourites of Putin and Putin Russia! He's already turned the gas tap on us. We should not forget where the democratic world is, where Bulgaria belongs in this democratic world at such important historical times. And from this point of view GERB-SDS did not accidentally submit this proposal for support to Ukraine with military equipment and ammunition. Dear colleagues, it is really not a popular solution, really there is a division in society it is based on, perhaps a century already, on russophiles and russophobes, but here it is about civilization choice. I very much hope that this civilisational choice will be made, but I have one concern that it will not be so that by voting each of its proposals, we do not have that large group of MPs, except for two parties that would support such a decision. As for the referendum, which was just mentioned, why did we not make a referendum 1968 when we sent Bulgarian troops to suppress the uprising - it was not an uprising, it was the Prague Spring and the desire for change in the Czech Republic? Let's not forget where the troops of the Soviet Union and Russia were and Nagorno Karabakh and Chechnya and Afghanistan and so on. So when you have an aggressor, when you have an attacked sovereign state, when you have a union of the democratic community, you have to be in the right place, and it's in the rest of the civilization world. I hope for a serious support of the proposal submitted by GERB-SDS. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u92	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Are there any lines to Rumen Hristov? I can't see. Stoil Stoilov to speak. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, today we are faced with an extremely important decision - today we must decide whether to support the Council of Ministers in sending military technical assistance to Ukraine. Let me tell you how I have decided to support and, in the course of my speech, I will put both sides to the argument. Since February 24 we have seen an unprecedented 21st century aggression on the European continent. It is undoubtedly who is the aggressor and who is the victim of aggression. We are faced with a choice to maintain neutrality or to help the attacked country? What arguments have so far been heard against giving military assistance to Ukraine? We heard it would prolong the agony. We have heard that Bulgaria will be involved in the war. We have heard that Bulgaria has enough of its own concerns to get involved in world affairs. We have also heard sociology that the majority of Bulgarians do not support the sending of military assistance. I understand these calls, especially given the fact that our society has been subjected to procremlin propaganda for years, sometimes even from this tribune. It is normal for a person to say: "Maybe they are right! " But I will tell you why I do not agree with these arguments. No, sending military aid will not prolong agony, as some say, but will help a victim to defend himself against his aggressor. The idea that agony will be extended relies on the assumption that Russia will win this war. I don't support that assumption. In the interests of Bulgaria and the free world it is in Ukraine to win this war and Russia to give up its intentions. No, sending the proposed military technical assistance will not involve Bulgaria in the war. We have already seen many countries.. have sent military assistance to Ukraine, but Russia has not declared war on them. I'm gonna say it one more time. No, sending military technical assistance will not involve Bulgaria in the war! I do not think that Bulgaria will lose from providing such assistance. In any case, the Russian agency has been working for decades on the territory of Bulgaria. Russia has stopped Bulgaria's gas supplies, Russia has already declared Bulgaria an enemy country, so Mr Putin obviously does not do us any favors and this line of conduct is quite a long time ago. I realize that my opinion is different from that of many people, but in such crucial times the role of politicians is to convince our compatriots what we think is right to do. Dear compatriots, I believe that sending even more help to Ukraine is the most responsible solution at the moment, which protects the Bulgarian interests long term. Because the Bulgarian interest is Ukraine to win this war and to push away the aggressor. If Ukraine does not win, the dangers for Bulgaria are greater. My initial opinion was also in favour of neutrality and non-sending military aid, but after learning a little bit about foreign policy, since I am not an expert, with objective facts, my opinion has changed. This is why I will support military technical assistance to Ukraine. I support because it is definitely in the Bulgarian interest that Ukraine wins the war and not Russia. If Putin achieves its goal of occupying a significant Ukrainian territory or installing a new puppet government in Kiev, it is a victory for his regime, which would encourage him to continue even more courageously to Moldova and to Eastern Europe. I support sending help because it is the only right strategy against an aggressor like Putin. He understands strength. Mr. Putin behaves like a school robber. Against such people, if you retreat, they continue with even greater courage. When you answer him with force, he retreats and is ready to negotiate. If the Western world, which I want Bulgaria to be part of, bends, then the probability is that Putin will knock on our door afterwards. I support sending help because this is a way to strongly condemn the unprovoked aggression, the outrage and the war crimes that the Russian country committed during the war. I support that because we have nothing to lose from such a step. Mr Putin has already stopped the gas for Bulgaria, has already declared Bulgaria an enemy state, his ambassador allows himself unimaginable for a diplomat language. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u94	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u95	What more do we expect Mr Putin to do before we realize that the Bulgarian interest is that he will not succeed. I support because I do not want our country to look cowardly, inadequate, and I do not want it to look like I quote: the Trojan horse of Russia in the European Union. I support because much smaller population and area countries from Bulgaria, such as Denmark, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, even Northern Macedonia, are sending military assistance to Ukraine. Some of these countries are much closer to Russia and yet they understand very well why it is in their interest that Russia fail. I support because the way to stop the conflict is by supporting the Ukrainian side to push away and refuse the aggressor. Thank you. And God save Bulgaria! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u96	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. The first line is Mr. Svilensky's.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Stoilov, I will not do an analysis of your speech, it just makes no sense, but it is nice when you make a statement to get acquainted with the draft decision. The draft decision submitted by your parliamentary group and possibly supported because I am no longer sure that it will be supported by our parliamentary group, there is no sending of military technical assistance. [[Noise, lines and applause by GERB-SDS and DPS.]] I don't know what exactly you're going to support?! There's no military technical assistance! The Ukrainian state wants other things. There will be no military technical assistance. The Ukrainian state wants humanitarian aid, wants us to help them with the wheat, wants us to help them with the electricity, wants us to help them with repairs of military equipment. They don't want us to send them military help! And I don't know what exactly you will support if you are part of the parliamentary group of continue the Change. If you are an independent MP, you may be able to make these statements. And stop blaming the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and for pro-Kremlin speeches, for the defenders of Putin and so on. The BSP has been consistent for years that there should be peace and that we are against the war and that we will not allow by any means the war to be stimulated in one direction or another. [[Noise and lines.]] It doesn't matter what the victims are, dear Mr. Stoilov. Sending weapons always leads to victims. Sending ammunition always leads to casualties. These ammunition must be used. And don't be afraid that Putin would knock on someone's door, not to Moldova, not to Bulgaria, not to any other country, would knock if we sent or if we didn't send help. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] These manipulations that have been going on for two months now, these fellows who go around every morning the studios and beat the heads of Bulgarian citizens how we should send all the weapons and all the ammunition we have. They don't want us! They don't want us! But some people have to earn the scholarships they have been given or who expect them to be given in the future. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u98	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Stoilov! Mr. Svilenski did some of the work for which I said the reply, because in your speech you claim that this decision, which will be voted, is in favour of this government, which has been the weakest government since the 1990s in Bulgaria. But with Mr. Svilenski's reply it has already become clear that this decision, which should be a draft of the Council of Ministers, but it is not, there is no consensus in the government, the opposition will take the decision in the National Assembly, and in essence the decision constitutes a vote of mistrust of this weakest cabinet since the 1990s. That's my first line. The second one, as a question. You are talking about the Russian agentura and propaganda, which has been working for years in Bulgaria and almost Bulgaria is Russia's Trojan horse in the European Union and NATO. Is it true that in this government, which can not even form its own solution, there is a Trojan horse, a product of Russian propaganda and agentura? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u100	Here you go, Mr. Bikov, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Stoilov! Indeed Mr. Svilensky and Mr. Karadaye on two thirds took my line, but when I agree with both of them, I will move on. First of all, you should know that no historical decision is being made today. Because if you eventually take it, it will be perhaps your declaration if you agreed last night at the Coalition Council, which is still unclear. If this declaration is accepted, this means that Bulgaria will continue to do what it is doing and is currently selling weapons to intermediaries, they will give it to Ukraine. No Terem and no military equipment here is gonna be fixed, you know. Technically, it can't happen! At least in the short term. So the decision will eventually be in the style of this government simply not to make a decision. Secondly, here my question is to you because I do not see who else can answer me: does your government want a mandate at all? Because I have no sense that your government wants any mandate at all. If she wanted, there would be a Prime Minister here, a Minister of Defence who would say: "Dear MPs, give us a mandate. We want this and this. I didn't hear anyone say anything. Everyone, by the way, from your formation, led by Mr. Kiril Petkov, speaks like you and do exactly the opposite. That's what you call quacking. Speaking one thing and doing the opposite is neither political nor fair behaviour towards Parliament and towards society. You don't want a mandate! You are currently pulling the numbers to tie your internal coalition balance and finally to say: "We have made a big decision! " - No solution! On this date 1999 a serious decision was really taken and colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" may remember, silently, that if they were listening to BSP then we would not be in NATO or in the European Union. Only now we're listening to BSP! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u102	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Will there be a hole? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, honourable colleagues replicating! Indeed, such serious speakers as Mr. Svilensky, Mr. Karadayi and Mr. Bikov, when they replicate me and even agree...... on some of the topics, apparently, there is a note I can take. [[noise and screams:]] I just want to make it clear in my backpack that I think we should unite ourselves around the decision to send such assistance as the Ukrainians need and which will be supported by as many MPs as possible. And also to clarify that we must give a mandate to the Council of Ministers to make a specific decision on what to send. So, in my opinion, this particular repair and what exactly to send, I'm not competent to discuss it. [[cheering and applause]] The Council of Ministers can make such a decision, such an attitude...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u104	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u105	...and therefore I agree to support these editorials that have been proposed by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u106	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Galunova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to ask you, have you ever tried to put out a fire with gasoline? Do you realize that with our weapons and our repair equipment, human lives will be taken away? Killing people no matter which side leads to escalating conflict and sowing more death and destruction. And if we are comforted by the fact that the National Assembly is a collective body, then each of us will take the moral responsibility for what decision he has made because there are decisions that cannot be returned. We are adamant that Bulgaria should not fuel the conflict that Bulgaria should be a moderator between the two countries for stopping the war and transferring the conflict to the battle, to the diplomatic field because, honourable MPs, peace is the solution and not the war and the world must return to the diplomatic solution of the conflicts.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. Are there any lines to Tsveta Galunova? I can't see. I give the floor to Stanislav Balabanov for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! In recent days, I have listened to all kinds of speeches, political declarations, analysts, and I have observed even the launch of political campaigns, without realizing that during this time people like us are losing their lives in Ukraine. It is very easy, honourable leaders of political parties, while you are sitting comfortably in your soft armchairs, thinking about what war looks like to you, however, it is another to see it live, there on the spot. I know that some of you do it to save your own skins, others do it to preserve your electorates, others do it to secure their own budgets. The truth is that in such cases they must always survive, first of all, human and moral qualities. I feel sorry for you, but most of you have sunk into thin party accounts, refusing to accept reality, and the reality, my dear, is terrible. It is not easy to talk on a mass grave where innocent souls are buried, people who have had dreams, hopes that have been destroyed by an aggressor who also puts his political survival ahead of human instinct. All day you have been hiding and commenting on the consequences of letters, trying here in the breaks, in the Chamber to organize another political round of opposition. At the same moment, however, let's look at what reality is. The truth is, as we spoke live with President Zelenski in Ukraine, we spoke as ordinary people, not as politicians. We have heard concrete and real things that Ukraine needs now. And for this reason, we have configured with our colleagues a more comprehensive proposal that will give us a mandate and an opportunity to try to make these things a reality. President Zelinski didn't ask for a gun, and we're not going to send one. [[Applause from the "There is such a people."]] Once and for all, it becomes clear to our society, which you continue to try to separate, insinuating false news. The power for us has always been in the truth, and she is now painting a hell in which, believe me, colleagues, none of you for any reason ever thought it could happen to him in the 21st century. I am sure that one day, when the war is over, you will all line up in Ukraine to take pictures in the name of peace. More importantly, however, when it is hot to stand with your faces, not to hide behind party declarations. There is nothing more logical at such a time to speak in one voice, united and united in order to be upright and not with bowed heads in the modern European peace world. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "There is such a people."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u110	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. Replices to Stanislav Balabanov? I can't see. Kostadin Kostadinov, come in for a statement. Then Christian Vigenin was recorded and Alexander Alexandrov, and Mr. Karimansky too, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u111	Mr. Chairman, it has just been mentioned here, and not by one and not by two people, that we have an interest in Bulgaria, we have an interest in Ukraine winning the war because then it would come our turn. However, I was also in Ukraine, and I was first, and accordingly after being handed over by the Bulgarian intelligence, I was given a black stamp, of course, with the idea that this way, using the dirty hands of the Ukrainian regime, would solve internal political problems. [[Noise and lines from DB.]] It is not decided, however, what I saw, I will tell you right now, because you, when you go, do not meet with Bulgarians, but you meet with the Ukrainian regime that governs there, it is normal that the same is your guarantor, the same is your owner and the same are the people who give you orders. I hope it is not the same fate of Ukraine and Bulgaria, because the government is currently pushing our many-suffering homeland along the same path the Ukrainian rulers pushed it for eight years. What the Bulgarians... [[Noise and lines from DB.]] Don't interrupt me when I'm talking, then you'll get a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u112	Now, Mr. Kostadinov, a little calmer, please and you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u113	When... Yes, thank you. There's no way we can be calm when we talk about a situation that puts the state on the brink of war. And now it is right to say what our compatriots in Ukraine say. What our compatriots in Ukraine have said is, we are waiting for the Russian troops to come and free us because we have been terrorized for eight years. [[Noise and lines from DB.]] We're terrorized, and you of the Democratic Ukraine, shut up, shut up!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u114	Mr. Kostadinov, just a second. I'll give you back your word, but please show respect to all MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u115	To whom?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u116	To everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u117	To those who interrupt me while I'm talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u118	To everyone you address, who was their sponsor or whatever.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u119	I didn't mention anyone specifically, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u120	If you speak against the people against you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u121	If anyone recognizes himself as such, let him come and say. Okay, I'm moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u122	Keep going!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u123	What was happening in Ukraine, I will tell you very briefly the names of our compatriots have been changed! There's no one who has a name that hasn't been changed in Ukraine. Michael became Mikhailo, Elena became Olena, Nicola became Mikola, Andrej became Andrei, Vladimir became Volodymir, and no one in any way posed this question on our part. Despite repeated requests from the Bulgarian communities in Ukraine, they changed their names. Let's ask DPS representatives what they think about the matter...... do they agree? Next, Bulgarian MPs and municipal councilors were beaten and we have one MP, municipal councillors beaten, covered with paint. Vasily Kashti almost went blind in Belgorod-Dnestrusky. Violated Bulgarian monuments, the monument of the militias in Bolgrad, the monument of Khan Kubrat last year was demonstrively split into pieces in Mala Pereshchepina. Not to mention the fact that all Bulgarian schools were closed, which were taught in Bulgarian, and now, if they want to study Bulgarian, our compatriots are only allowed on Saturdays and Sundays at Sunday schools without the help of the Ukrainian state. And all this happened in the shameful inactivity and silence of the Bulgarian state, which once again showed that it is not Bulgarian. Hypocrisy to somewhere. But let's not just talk about that. There was talk a moment ago that you see, we have large surpluses of weapons. I listened, listened, and got the impression that Bulgaria is some kind of military superpower. The truth is that the state reserve is being drained as well. In addition to being loaded from military warehouses, other than loading old stocks of ours, which are currently being stored, are now being loaded and other fuel is being loaded. Currently, they are loading fuel from the Bulgarian state reserve and exporting it. Not to mention that it was mentioned about Varna how it would become a logistics export centre for Ukrainian grain. And people, in the midst of the Bulgarian grain producers, if you say something like that, they will die laughing, because at the moment most of the Bulgarian grain exports pass through Constanta, simply because the Bulgarian port of Varna, unfortunately, no longer has these large logistics capabilities and capacities. One part of the places that once served to produce ships in the shipbuilding plant are now rigged for grain silos and still not enough. The destruction is everywhere. We cannot export our own grain through Varna quality, so we have to drive through train compositions to Constanta, so we will export foreign. Lie and hypocrisy once again. Not to mention what I just heard about rockets falling, or something like that was mentioned again very emotionally and dramatically while speaking in Kiev and so forth. There was a Bulgarian ship? 54 days the Bulgarian sailors on this ship were held as a living shield by the Ukrainian military. On this ship there were direct hits, and when the sailors returned, they said.. 54 days they were shot, of course, not as a target, but simply as collateral damage. Now what you want to do with Bulgaria is to turn our country into collateral damage. That's not gonna happen. And I will tell you the following thing: if we have Bulgarian national interest, it is Bulgaria to activate and work for the protection of Bulgarian rights in Bulgarian Bessarabia, to ask for autonomy for the Bulgarians in Bessarabia, because none of you here mentioned and will mention this thing. Because when Bulgarian delegations go to Kiev, they do not meet Bulgarians. Because they didn't go to Bessarabia, none of them, from the Bulgarian rulers, went there, and because not a penny, not a penny of that 50 million. BGN, which were voted, did not go for the Bulgarians in Ukraine. We've donated 35 tons since we got back. Not to mention that there are an awful lot of other people, civil organisations, individuals, all those who have given, but the Bulgarian government with our money. BGN, I repeat, our state, national money, one penny has not given. We, it turns out, are once again more concerned with others than we are with our own. Until when? And I'm going to tell you this, because a few moments ago, additional very good historical examples were given with the vote, which was on 13 December 1941 here in this Chamber. It was well said that the MPs stood up and applauded. However, it was forgotten or rather not said what King Boris then said after he understood about the vote, one of the MPs and his advisor: At least if you had not applauded, you would have spared yourself the humiliation. We are at a historic moment and let no one feel alerted at the moment. I'm warning you, the situation is changing. Those who voted in 1941 for Bulgaria to enter the war subsequently paid with their lives. Whether it's right or wrong, it's a controversial question. After years, the people who are now voting here and swear allegiance to foreign alliances, of which Bulgaria has only and only suffered losses, can also respond and may not be years from now, and may be months from now, it may be very soon. And I'm reminding you right now that the parliament outside is surrounded. Come on, if you have the guts, go out and talk to the people who are going to meet there. And this will only be the beginning today because, again, I tell you, you are declaring war at the moment of the Bulgarian people, but this war will be won by us. There is no government and there is no parliament that has won the war against its people. That's how it was. That's how it's gonna be. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u124	Mr. Kostadinov, just be careful with the calls from the stands. The line from Kiril Simeonov and Antoaneta Tsoneva. Third line from Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Kostadinov, I think you have made an incorrect statement by saying that none of the representatives of parliament and power are concerned about the Bulgarian diaspora in Ukraine. You said you were the first to go to Ukraine. If that's the way we're going to talk, I and my supporters from "There is such a people" officially I am the first MP to bring assistance to the Bessarab Bulgarians in Bolgrad on March 5th. [[Applause from IHN.]] In honor of the truth, you have come to congratulate me personally, for which I thank you, but be more precise in your speeches next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u126	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Antoinette Tsoneva for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I just heard the guy who wanted to denciate Bulgaria spreading his toxic lies again. My colleagues and I were also in Ukraine and we did not hear the Bulgarians wanting to welcome Russian troops. A more disgraceful statement than that, gentlemen, I cannot imagine and could not help but give you a reply because the dignity of the Bulgarians in Ukraine must be protected. And I want to ask you, do candy fall over Odessa, or rockets, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. There's time for the dot. Nastimir Ananiev for the third line. [[Noise and lines.]] No yelling from the place!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Kostadinov, once again we see heavy propaganda on your part, the point is that it is always with false news, false news, which is misleading many of the people. First, of course, you're talking about their fears that we're on the verge of war, aren't you? But on the other hand, you are criticising colleagues who actually say that, yes, Moldova can come after Ukraine, and Eastern European countries can come. But let's get back to your really fake news, because it's honest lies. I remember even when the ship you quoted, in your words, was taken over by I don't know who you are. Turns out there's no such thing as pure false news! It's called a lie. I'm lying! The other thing, which is a frank lie, the delegation that visited Ukraine, was meeting with the Bulgarian community. Another lie, but you love this tribune to go out and lie to the Bulgarian people. And also, when you speak from here, do not speak on behalf of the Bulgarian people, but only from that of your voters. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u130	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u131	To begin with: Mr. Simeonov, it is true, and I thanked you, as you well know, you yourself have noted this thing But that is exactly what I said: none of the government, from the Bulgarian government, has sent money and aid there from our assistance, voted here "50 million." Is that right? That's right! That you have gone and brought as an organizer of such assistance is only as, how to say, your personal position, something that you have done something that deserves congratulations for, for which I will now congratulate you once again. I've done it once before. So what you've done, I've really marked it, and I'm going to point it out again. Whether you replicate me or not, sometimes I can say it again, because the truth is what it is. Our country, unfortunately, hasn't sent anything. And here, maybe there are other people who have done it, I don't know. If there is, they also deserve congratulations and support. But this is our personal case, you know, like we've sent 35 tons of personal case, it's not something we've collected for example, say from the state budget, it's money we've taken out of our pockets. And not only are we, of course, the most ordinary Bulgarian citizens. In terms of lies. Where's Mr. Ananiev that I can't see him? Yeah, hi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u132	Hi, it's not appropriate for the parliamentary tribune I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u133	So, first of all, if you understand the meeting with Anton Kise under a meeting with the Bulgarian communities, excuse me! One MP we have, which is part of the Ukrainian ruling coalition there for years, it is clear. I don't know if you've met others, but you've certainly never been to Bolgrad, and I think that's a notoriously known fact. About everything else you said. I never mentioned and it was a lie on your part or maybe you just weren't informed enough that the Bulgarian ship had been taken over. Such information came out and we commented on possible such information, constantly saying that we were hoping. On the same day I spoke with Kiril Petkov, he told me that this is not true, I told you and I was as correct as possible. Literally a few hours later, after we contacted the sailors, it turned out that wasn't true. And thank God it wasn't true, but everything else was like that for 54 days this ship of ours was held like a living shield. As for the claims of the Democratic Ukraine (Democratic Ukraine), I simply will not comment on them. [[Heckling]] I'm just not gonna comment on them. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u134	Mr. Kostadinov! Someone might remind me why, at the beginning of the National Assembly's term, we closed the Parliamentary Ethics Committee because I don't remember?! Come in for a procedure, Mr. Tsonev. Then I give the floor to Alexander Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, for the third time in this tribune, we are making a procedure to invite the Prime Minister and the ministers who are relevant on this subject. The fact that they have the Council of Ministers doesn't interest anyone. The Council of Ministers, as convened, is postponed or directed for another hour. No one else here, and the ruling majority colleagues are talking about some mandate we were going to give to whom? Are we going to give this empty chair this term?! [[Applause from DPS.]] We're not talking about a mandate, you're talking. Nothing that the Constitution has given them exactly this mandate that you are talking about, without wanting us to take it as a decision now, but we are well-meaning. It's not a historic moment, but it's an important moment, first of all. And secondly, just to support my words, one of the topics on which we want to come and ask them: help, okay, there is a list of the Ukrainian ambassador, which is said to be a list of the Ukrainian government. Who's gonna pay for this? Because in art. 110 of the budget that we voted on, we have said that the Council of Ministers may approve additional costs, transfers, increase the indicators, not to read to you all about funding activities to provide immediate humanitarian assistance to citizens living in Ukraine and Bulgarians with Ukrainian citizenship, including, if necessary, evacuation, humanitarian assistance to Ukraine.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Do you see any grounds for any other expenses around here? And we, in our decision now, shall we say that other costs must be made?! Who's gonna take this cost? The European Union may, for example, have such an opportunity, such as the Peace Support Mechanism and so on. But these questions we need to discuss with the government. Who should we discuss them with? This is the third time we have asked on behalf of the parliamentary group. As you can see, we are constructive, we are at the level of national responsibilities to come here! The fact that they are absent from the country's main decisions is clear to every Bulgarian citizen. At least come here now. [[Applause from DPS]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u136	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Alexander Alexandrov for speech. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are discussing a matter for which we need to make a decision that reflects both strength, morality and, to a large extent, unity of the MPs as much as possible. The war lasted more than two months, people on both sides died for various causes, for which, if more wisdom, patience and a sense of responsibility for the future were shown, even in the world, could be achieved without blood, without destruction and without spilling out of one part of our continent Europe, the richest, most organized and with the most progressive democratic system. We all know who pulled the trigger, who the aggressor is, and who started the war. It is not the question now to seek the Genesis and all the actions of the responsible factors in Europe and in the world that have led to this general destruction, because things are never just white and black, as someone would like and as some have even pointed out from this tribune. I apologize for speaking as a military man. Therefore, there is a need today for a sober mind to be expressed in a decision of the National Assembly, based on the proposals basically and above all on the demands of the Ukrainian side, which were so well articulated by Mr. Balabanov and other MPs. Bulgaria is permanently positioned in the alliances and organizations in which NATO, the European Union participates. Without any doubt about this geographical situation, which we love to highlight what a great advantage it is for our country, membership is this pillar that gives us the ability to protect national interests in this conflict, which has acquired from the very beginning the nature of a deepening global geopolitical clash, and they are for the protection of our territorial integrity, political and cultural identity, economic and social security of the people and the country. Things have to be named by their real names. And if the arguments for helping the Ukrainian side are of the kind that others do and that is the only civilisational choice and that all of us should do, because we are not in the first lines, I think that this cannot be an essential argument. We are a worthy member of NATO on the border of the civilized world, we should help, and the Council of Ministers should decide the scope and type of this assistance within the meaning of the National Assembly's decision, which is evidently possible within the meaning of the Ukrainian country's demands. I would say again that with a common sense and a sober assessment of the situation without becoming a question, as some try to place and turn war into a dividing line for and against Russia or against everything Russian. In many ways, this is now becoming grotesque, and we all know it. We see it on our and world media. War against everything Russian: sports, art, contribution to the world's achievements through the centuries, contribution even to saving the peoples of World War II, identifying an entire nation with these crimes. Unfortunately, this is an expression in the views of individual leaders who accepted the maxim that all actions with regard to Ukraine should be in one direction only the Ukrainian army to endure while supporting Russia's capabilities. Can't we ask ourselves the question: could this be a solution to the question, a military solution? How do they imagine it from a military point of view, some apologists, including military leaders that I don't want to name right now? Do they have any idea of the military potentials of both sides, and what purpose do they make peace until it is too late, or war to come? To whom, after all?! The question is: can one of the countries achieve a victory in the sense of a lasting solution, including political after the cease-fire as this country sees it for itself? You can't and there isn't a solution. Therefore, we do not know, the ultimate political goal of the Russian Federation has not yet been formulated. Yeah, demilitarization, denazification, okay, but that's not enough, and it's under the conditions of the still existing international security system, even, I'd say, a security order. There's a United Nations, there's a Security and Cooperation Organisation in Europe, there's NATO, there's a European Union, there's a European Union, they exist. Some, including presidents, leaders rushed at the very beginning of the conflict to conclude that, with the start of the war, the established system of international security was destroyed. We haven't heard from US President Biden, President Macron or NATO Secretary-General, admit to such a thing. Some would like to, but this should not be allowed, and if you look into the statements of a number of world formal and informal leaders, including if you look into what has been said here several times by the President and High Commander-in-Chief, peace has no alternative. After all, the Great Powers of the United States, France, Great Britain, Germany, albeit formally incredible power, but with its economic power, with its zeal, with its influence, should be given some worthy outcome and the war to stop. The most unacceptable is the freezing of the conflict. No one will benefit from this, but at least we, Bulgaria and a number of Eastern European countries. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is why the decision on the assistance of the Ukrainian side must be adopted, in my opinion, as the demands are and as they have already been mentioned here several times, because everything else can be said to reach the path to the bottom, and once the bottom is reached, the road is only and ever up. And the last question is that today this decision must become a near future in a serious debate on the state of the armed forces and the state of the Bulgarian army. Strong, responsible state decisions are needed in order for the country's defence in national and collective format to be transformed and reach the state it needs to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u138	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Are there any lines for Alexander Alexandrov? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not comment essentially on the war in Ukraine today on more than once, including this tribune. The third month of conflict is time for more reason, more pragmatism and concern. In this sense, the pathos I have heard in some appearances so far seems rather inappropriate. We at BSP do not accept military rhetoric, including some of our partners in government, we do not accept the systematic attempts to strain tensions and opposition, to set Bulgarians against Bulgarians based on sympathy and respectively, antipathy towards Russia. The principle of separation and rule is often successful, but the peoples and communities on which this is applied are the victims, and it is up to us to stop these attempts. Since the first day of the war, BSP has expressed two very clear and firm positions behind which we stand today, and which I can sum up like this: first, not of the war, yes to diplomacy; second, for Ukraine support yes, weapons. These two elements outline the field on which, if desired, of course, political agreement can be found both in Parliament as a whole and in the coalition in particular. More importantly, however, this is the field on which public agreement can be reached so that there are no significant differences in citizens' understandings and policy. We welcome the Prime Minister's efforts to soften the dividing lines, but these efforts would only result if the necessary compromises were made by each of the coalition's partners. We express our willingness to take a step in this direction. Of the three drafts submitted for consideration, two are categorically unacceptable and we will reject them. They oblige the government to provide military assistance without any restrictions in the scope and nature of this assistance and are focused only on one aspect of the war in Ukraine, which does not directly affect us. The third project of the "We Continue the Change" is the only one who is trying to focus above all on the consequences of the war for Bulgaria and for the Bulgarian citizens and asks the government for measures to overcome them. This is a comprehensive approach, which is far more appropriate to the situation, and this was the reason why we supported it in the Committee on Foreign Policy. The question was raised there, if I am not mistaken, by representatives of GERB as well as by aging, of course, each of their own corner: what does technical assistance mean for defence purposes? Obviously, the concept is not sufficiently clear if it is not fully clarified what is specifically meant by this term. With today's details that have been made by representatives of.. We continue the Change............... the issue will no longer stand. The possibility of a broad interpretation of this term is closed. "Humanitarian, financial and military assistance" comes down to the six points in Ukraine's official request to Bulgaria and I stress that none of them are related to weapons and ammunition. With these details, we gain security that Bulgaria will not become part of the conflict and at the same time, without questioning our solidarity with the Ukrainian people and our belonging to the European Union and NATO. We would prefer the National Assembly not to deal with these issues in this way at this stage, but since we are at this stage, it is desirable to maintain the unity of the coalition and we are ready to support the proposed project by. Again, with the additions made. I'd like to make one clarification. Contrary to suggestion, Bulgaria is not the only EU country that does not provide weapons to Ukraine. In a similar position are Austria, Cyprus, Malta, Ireland and Hungary and each of these countries has its own specifics. Of course, there is also a similar specificity of Bulgaria. This must be respected by the partners and, above all, by ourselves, and clearly is not a reason for self-harming, which also sounded today in some of the speeches. Let us stop producing our own domestic political dramas, let us try to seek unity, not division in the conditions of today's global crisis, let us close this topic today, stop abusing Bulgarian citizens daily and focus on the other problems clearly outlined in point. 1 of the proposed solution.. incomes, inflation, energy security, economic growth, social support. Contrary to expectations of disintegration, despite attempts during the war in Ukraine to clear domestic political accounts, today our coalition has a chance to show that it can show respect for differences, resist unforeseen external shocks, find common solutions to difficult issues and clear the way for the country to move forward. In conclusion, once again, I propose to reject the projects of GERB and "Democratic Bulgaria" and the National Assembly to unite around the proposal of the Parliamentary Group. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u140	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Replies to Christian Vigenin are from Dimitar Gochev and from Lubomir Karimanski. Here you go, Mr. Gochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Vigenin, for that statement. What I would like to clarify is that I, as a Member of the National Assembly, support the provision of military assistance and the provision of arms for Ukraine, and I think that most of our colleagues from We can't give what we don't want. What we can give is what we want, what is military technical assistance and repairing military equipment, and that is how our positions match. And from the point of view of this, we continue the Change and the Bulgarian Socialist Party are ready to provide Ukraine with what it needs in its fight against the aggressor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u142	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. The second line is from Lyubomir Karimanski and the third one by Daniel Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! That's a very short line. I never knew where the truth was, Mr. Vigenin. In what you said from this tribune just now, or in what Mr. Gutsanov said from the stands that he proposed a referendum? It seems to me that your proposal for a referendum is extremely populist at this very moment, and why didn't you propose a referendum two months ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u144	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Here you go, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Vigenin! It is obvious that BSP won this debate, BSP won the talk about what the ruling coalition will do with the so-called assistance to Ukraine. There won't be any military help, not even if you added the word military and became military technical. I'll repeat this to you again: We are continuing the Change is completely pointless. It is a shame to use and blackmail, it is a shame to blackmail the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian Embassy at a time when this country is in a difficult situation, to ask them for a letter to legitimize the balance in your internal political, internal coalition relations. It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u146	Is it for Mr. Vigenin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u147	It's a disgrace! And Mr. Vigenin. He was part of what he said, and he understands. But apparently, at the moment he manages BSP to tell the Bulgarian citizens to know who is ruling. No Change, no other elements of the coalition currently prevail, prevails the Bulgarian Socialist Party. That is why we continue to call on you to take or vote for the decision, which in fact positions Bulgaria strategically and enables modernization of our defence capabilities, namely to provide real military assistance to Ukraine, to get rid of our rusty Soviet hardware and to start talks and negotiations with our allies, so that defence capabilities can be provided to be modern and compatible with NATO standards. This is the only proper strategic solution at the moment for the Bulgarian state. We really want to claim that we are part of the alliances we belong to, an effective part of these alliances. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u148	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, naturally, I am sure that each of us in this House has a specific attitude towards each element of the solutions so proposed and in general regarding the conflict, but at the end of the day we have parliamentary groups, political groups who make their decisions on how to vote one or another text, so there is a coalition that seeks agreement and common solutions, both on large and complex issues and on smaller ones. It is difficult to find one person who has the same attitude towards a problem with others, but that is also our responsibility as politicians and as MPs. I can hardly answer specifically on the subject of the referendum, Mr. Karimanski, but in the end we are not at a stage where we should decide on providing weapons and ammunition to Ukraine, if we come to such a point, then we can consider more seriously the idea which launched Mr. Gutsanov. But today we are not at this stage, so our position is that what is proposed can be supported by us. And when I said, Mr. Mitov, that the issue of war in Ukraine is used to clear domestic political accounts, I also meant you - not you specifically, but GERB, but you appear in the case expressor of this. It is not that you are so interested in what will be sent to Ukraine, but you want to stress once again and create the impression that "Democratic Bulgaria" is stuck in the corner and almost BSP determines the policy of the government. If that were the case, we wouldn't be faced with that kind of decision. If it were up to us, such a decision today would not be discussed because we believe that this is not necessary, and as you can see, the BSP has not proposed such a solution. I believe that the basis on which we are going to step today is the result of the fact that each of the parties in our coalition, from the parliamentary groups, has taken a step towards the compromise and we respect all the other partners, and I urge you to do so as well. And one last sentence. I don't find it logical to use a war to get rid of our old weapon and get a new one. Let's get rid of the old weapon and send it to become people of smoke so that we can have military and economic benefits. After all, there's some line of morality that can't be crossed. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u150	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Lyubomir Karimanski for speech, then Hristo Ivanov, and then Toma Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u151	Can we do a procedure to extend the time?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u152	Yeah, maybe. I'll just do it. Colleagues of AGE, you have a minute and twenty minutes left. Is it for Mr. Ganev? [[Relation from ARGUMENT: "Yes. "]] Okay. Honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal to extend the working time until the end of this point of the Programme. Voting mode. They voted 178 MPs: 164 against 14, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. With that, we move on to Mr. Karimansky's statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u153	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll try to limit myself to more technocratic talk than political talk. Firstly, I would like to point out that the National Assembly should give a mandate in one of the three proposals of the Council of Ministers for the three proposals made, where one of them says for military technical assistance. In this direction, I would also support what Mr Balabanov said that the National Assembly will expressly not give a mandate to provide weapons to Ukraine. And it must be very clear that such a mandate is not given to the government. At the same time, however, I would like to know what is the basis of each decision? Since none of the decisions has a specific reason to clarify the scope of the individual definitions contained in those decisions. And I personally need definitions to be very clearly defined and their scope, as we have very often said, that we do not want to give an empty check to the Council of Ministers or to anyone else. That is why I cannot agree with the wording made by our colleagues in the National Assembly. I quote the shorthand to be precise: "Exercise military technical assistance according to an official letter with an.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No 47-226-004 of the Ambassador of Ukraine and according to the capabilities of the Republic of Bulgaria. How can such a thing be written at all in a term of office of the National Assembly and voted according to the................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 86 of the Constitution, para. 2 which says: "The demands and decisions of the National Assembly are mandatory for all state bodies, organizations and citizens. " - That is to say, we are giving a binding decision to the Council of Ministers to apply a letter to the Ambassador of Ukraine. What if there's another ambassador's decision tomorrow that he wants to write us a letter, and we're gonna apply that?! This is absolutely untenable! Please edit this so that the final version of the proposal can be made clear. There cannot be such a letter within the text that we are being proposed to vote on. Next thing. All those repairs to be carried out on military equipment shall be awarded under the Armed Forces Act by the Minister of Defence. They shall not be awarded by the National Assembly. And here I do not see what reason there is at all this whole day, apart from the political, of course, and besides politically making enough advertising and PR individual MPs in parliamentary groups, why should we be dealing with this issue and not having a decision by the Council of Ministers? This is in the prerogatives entirely of the Council of Ministers. Let us know, the definite decision of the Council of Ministers is: for military assistance, for providing weapons or for what? Do we have a clear decision by the Council of Ministers about what they are for? Many countries of Europe, and here have been cited, to all these countries of Europe, their Council of Ministers has made decisions, not Parliament, as we want to do. And is it normal, in Bulgaria alone, for Parliament to deal with all this work, or do we want to make a purely political impression? In this direction, I would like to share a few more things with you. Firstly, all assets and liabilities in the state are managed by the Council of Ministers, and when the Council of Ministers wants to manage these assets in a sufficiently effective way to provide such assistance as you are talking about, and here again I am opening a clamp, there is no definition of military technical assistance anywhere. Tell me the regulation in which military technical assistance is defined, what is the scope of military technical assistance and what will be repaired in our factories? Then, when we want to be effective in this renovation, we need to know if these factories can repair all this military equipment. Because I can tell you that the plant in Red Beach, which used to make BTRs, doesn't exist anymore, it's been cut up a long time and so on. I can mention enough other examples. Last I would like to tell you, as I see that my time is running out, but very clearly to state that the repair work is mentioned in the letter of the Ukrainian Ambassador, and we want to give military technical assistance. Why, when we want repair work of military equipment in Bulgaria, are we talking about military technical assistance? Let's leave it under repair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u154	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. A line from Dimitar Gochev. Here you go, Mr. Gochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Karimansky, I find it difficult to understand your statement, frankly. You asked: shall we apply the next decision or the next letter coming from the Ukrainian ambassador? Of course not. That's how the legal system works, Mr. Karimansky, the letters have unique numbers. The next letter that came will have another entry number and therefore cannot be applied because in the decision we propose is referred to the letter with this entry number. That's one thing. The other thing is that the content of the decision was not clear. It is clear that we refer to the letter. You can open it and the letter explicitly states: repairing the technique. This is what we have been asked for by our Ukrainian partners, and this is something we can give them. We can't give something they haven't asked us to. And the third thing that you said, which is not true, as well as the previous two, that in Bulgaria alone the parliament dealt with the decisions on military aid. Similarly, in Germany, the Bundestag also voted on a decision that gave the executive a mandate. It is not only in Bulgaria. Each country has a unique way of deciding which depends on the relevant system. Thank you very much. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u156	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. Is there a second line to Lyubomir Karimansky? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Karimansky, colleague Gochev noted some of the things I had marked myself. All I want to do is actually add the editing because you checked the transcript, but you didn't read it all the way. What my colleague Mihnev proposed in his version ends according to the opportunities of the Republic of Bulgaria. In a word, what the Ukrainian Embassy and the Ukrainian Government want is written in a letter which is entered in the proper order of the National Assembly, which all MPs have received in their email, and according to our capabilities. They may want something, but if we don't have a chance, we can't give it up. Even colleagues from GERB did not understand that Ukraine does not want us to have a weapon. She says very specifically what she wants from us, but they keep saying that they need to be given something that they don't want. There's no way we can give something anyone doesn't want. People said exactly what they wanted. If it's in our capabilities, we'll provide it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u158	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Is there a third line, colleagues? I can't see. For the doppelganger, Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u159	Thank you. First of all, the Bundestag's decision is for a whole other thing, not for military help. Read your decision, see. The way we can make decisions... why isn't that a lie? As we can make decisions on the basis of art. 84, p. 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, but this is a completely different solution, it has nothing to do with military assistance. As for what you said, well, yes, but in your proposal is written a statement of military assistance according to an official letter. [[Shows the stenogram.]] If you want, look. "Military assistance" according to an official letter with an entry number from the Ambassador of Ukraine. I'm sorry, but I'm gonna go back to pointing out art. 86, para. 2: supposes and decisions of the National Assembly are mandatory for all state bodies, organizations and citizens. This is untenable, and I would like to make it clear that we may have military technical assistance, but not according to an official letter that you have proposed in real terms. This is untenable for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u160	And thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Hristo Ivanov is listed for speech. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll start with a line on what the esteemed Christian Vigenin said and expressed as a desire to somehow go through this debate and make it disappear. I'm afraid, Mr. Vigenin, that he can't disappear, and not because someone on one side of the room or on the other side of the room has said something more that always happens, but because the subject is fundamental. It is defining how the international environment in which Bulgaria will function will be structured in general, and Bulgaria is a country, unfortunately, which relies heavily on its security of external factors. And this is a reality that no one can deny. This is a country that can't say, "We are an island somewhere far outside of any context that can guarantee its security completely."? On the contrary, we import security. And from this point of view, what will be the environment in which our security will be, and that means the basic conditions for the lives of each and every one of us, is guaranteed... there is no way that this subject will disappear. This topic will continue to structure the political field in Bulgaria will or will not. As much as the reality is, and we have to honestly say that this coalition was fully shaped in view of internal policy considerations and that the war in Ukraine, which no one could assume would become what it became, changed very seriously the environment. Unfortunately, it's a reality. And from the point of view of this reality, we here in this Chamber, each of us will make our decision and it will ultimately depend on which point of view has prevailed or not. And I am here to speak in an appeal to support the proposal of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria in this particular sense. Unfortunately, I also join what Mr. Vigenin said, we must, of course, highly appreciate the Prime Minister's efforts to seek compromise, including, so to speak, the extent to which he even receives assistance from Ukraine. Because that's what we see. There is no need to turn a blind eye to the reality that this problem is greater than any momentary compromises that can be found. This problem will continue to structure the internal political space in Bulgaria from now on and we cannot hide from it. And that is why my call is for everyone to really vote in conscience, because Mr. Kostadinov is right about our decision here will have its historical consequences. I'm perfectly calm to appear before every court and tell you what I'm about to tell you now. I am not going to argue my call to support the decision that the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria has put forward with arguments relating to Ukraine because it is not Ukraine. She, Ukraine, if she relied on us for her protection... let me not finish that sentence. This is about Bulgaria, because we have to get back to the nature of what is happening. What is happening is an attempt by Putin's regime to challenge with everything at the cost of aggression, at the cost of threats to use nuclear weapons, escalating a revision of the international order created after the fall of the Berlin Wall. This thing is absolutely clearly traceable through longstanding positions of the Russian government, starting with Putin's 2007 speech in Munich. Yes, the Munich, which Lyubo Dilov-son quite rightly pointed out as the right historical one, so to speak, a comparison of the political course that is being proposed now. That Munich, in which, you remember, we brought peace to our generation, said the then British Prime Minister, after liking the Czech Republic. And how long did this peace last? Finally, this peace is the most lasting peace in... one of the most lasting periods of peace in Europe's history, which has now ended because of Putin, has been won again. Because, to tell you the truth, peace is a value, but there are other values, such as freedom and dignity. And when they sacrifice freedom and dignity, very soon you lose peace, and that has been proven many times in history. Thank God, the Ukrainian people, despite all expectations that they will meet the Russian liberators, are fighting for their freedom and dignity. The question is what are we doing in the situation that we are facing, not just Ukraine, we specifically and directly before an attempt to realise, again I say, the situation that has been created in Europe and in the world since the fall of the Berlin Wall. Because where were we before that and where are we now? We can have a huge number of different criticisms of the international status quo from before the Russian aggression. Statuquo not in the sense of something bad, but in the sense of a fixed situation, but there is one fact that absolutely no one here can deny that Bulgaria is a net winner of this international order. We are one country that, despite its inability to take adequate advantage of the situation of a member of the European Union and NATO, survives many years of growth and integration in international order and gets an opportunity generation after generation of Bulgarians who inevitably, regardless of what their parents think, go to the West, not Moscow, right? Bulgaria enjoys the goods of this order and is therefore worth thinking about what we should do, not in the name of the Ukrainians and in the name of someone else, in the name of our own direct national interest that this international order should be protected because, as it is, it is the best conditions in which the Bulgarian state has existed for many, many decades. Certainly much better than the era that began with the arrival of the Red Army here in Bulgaria and the era that Putin is trying to bring back because that is what he is trying to do. And this is explicitly declared in their positions. They are trying to revise the international order and this is not in the interest of Bulgaria. The same way Hitler has been trying to revise the international order that has been structured since the end of World War I. And this is the subject of which this debate will not be able to disappear. And we are not the question of giving the Ukrainians what they have asked us at some point, the question is Bulgaria to answer its question clearly and the place of this answer is here, in the top political body of this country. I agree with Mr Karimanski that a number of formal can be found, not particularly well done, all three solutions that are offered to us, because these really should have been solutions made and tabled by the Council of Ministers, but in the end the political body of the state must say where it is positioned, what it is ready to give for the protection of this international order from which she, again I say, has a huge specific pragmatic interest to be protected. I want to tell you one more thing. The best place where this pragmatic interest can be effectively protected is in Ukraine. Because this is not about peace at all costs, which we are willing generously on behalf of the Ukrainians to say make peace with aggression. Because the calls to this and the argument that you see, we are for peace... For what peace? For a peace the Ukrainians won't accept? Which one of you is ready, here was talking about who went to Ukraine, which one of you is ready to go to Ukraine and tell them, "In the name of peace, surrender, accept Putin's demands?" And what's more, when it comes to neutrality, we need to be very clear about capitulantism, there is talk about acceptance of Russian law to force their interests in a sphere of Russian peace, which includes Bulgaria, and is included precisely by virtue of our readiness under the badly disguised fig leaf of fairy tales of neutrality, we a priori recognize Russia's right to exercise power. And no, this is not a position that is directed against everything Russian. On the contrary, this is a position that can finally give a reason one day when Russia is reminded of this nightmare in which it is thrown, that we begin to build with it some equal relationship, not a relationship of a former satellite that continues to experience its Stockholm syndrome, and all the while trying to adjust its actions in advance to the expectations of a dominant power on the part of Russia, but from the point of view of a country that wants to develop normal, equal relations based on international order and law, with each country, including a future, hopefully, democratic and free Russia, genuinely. So our call is to support a clear mandate, wide, not limited, which expresses Bulgaria's readiness, and does not respond simply to some letter of the Ukrainian ambassador. We must clearly tell our allies that we are ready for the protection of this international order from which we have, once again I mean, a specific generational, for many generations ahead, interest. Let's take a clear political position and give all the help we can to keep this order from the Ukrainians who make their own decisions as far as they can go and thank God they're not trying to lower themselves like we are. Because this will be defining how Bulgaria will develop from now on and will not be able to be crappy. Yes, if, in the end, it comes to a decision to vote on a limited subject proposed in the version of our colleagues from.. We continue the Change............................................................................................ we cannot not support the giving specific requests made by the Ukrainian Ambassador of the Ukrainian ambassador, but we are now, but it is proposed by the Ukrainian ambassador to be prepared to be prepared to be prepared by the Ukrainian ambassador to be prepared to be prepared in every situation, but we are much more reasonable to give a broad mandate to give a wide mandate to the Bulgarian government mandate to the Bulgarian government mandate to the Bulgarian government to the Bulgarian government to the Bulgarian and developing mandate to the Bulgarian government and emerging situation, and developing situation, and developing situation, because it will be given a wide mandate in any emerging situation, and emerging situation, and emerging situation. And in this way, of course, there will be an opportunity for the government to respond to the specific requests set out in this letter and perhaps to others who may come. Once our Ukrainian partners see that we not only expect them to help us, but we are also ready to help them, and publicly stated, and clearly proclaimed here in the highest political body of the state. So we will, of course, also support the more limited subject, but we call on it, and it really does have a very great political importance, to support the wider mandate, because this is the right thing to do. And sometimes, my God, the right things have to be done here because they are. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u162	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? Mr. Anastasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u163	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Ivanov, thank you for your speech. I would especially like to admire you for the part where you say that there are topics for which intra-coalition relations or other such matters are absolutely irrelevant and have absolutely no meaning. But, Mr. Ivanov, we can only hear this from you and your group. I'll even allow myself to answer you with an allegory. If the President of Ukraine had the opportunity to come here today and meet with the Council of Ministers if he found it, of course, because he is hiding.. no wonder to come and cannot find it, and see what topics the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria is dealing with, I would not be surprised not to ask you, but to offer help................................and any other kind. I mean it very seriously and with great sadness in my heart. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u164	Are there any other lines, colleagues? A hole, Mr. Ivanov? Mr. Bikov is listed for a statement. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As I said earlier in a line: the decision that the mandate holder and not the government are proposing is a virtually neutral position, however much here to talk about how much they are against Russia. My opinion is that there is no need here to tear off our shirts which is what is against Russia........................ just the opposite........................................................................ just to take a firm decision that corresponds to the Bulgarian national interest............................................................................................................................................. What's happening right now? With the neutral position we are being called upon to take from part of the ruling majority, we weaken the Bulgarian position in the European Union and in Europe. Now we can hypocrite, we can say here that there is no such thing in Europe, there is no such thing! I will tell you that, for example, on 1 March, the Republic of Northern Macedonia provides military assistance to Ukraine, the Republic of Northern Macedonia, which is a quarter of Bulgaria, probably with a much smaller army and a much smaller forcepower, a member of NATO and is not a member of the European Union, on 1 March! Why is he doing this? Because he will win the war Ukraine because Macedonia supports it? No. Because when they go to Brussels tomorrow and say: we confess the values of the European Union and Europe, they will believe them, and they will not believe us. With this position that you propose here to vote, no matter how much you rip the shirts off the stands, people will read it because they will not hear what you have said here, they will read the position. Yes, the Ukrainian Embassy has given you this opportunity, what do you expect him to say? Last week, Kuleba was here, and he said something completely different than what the Ukrainian embassy has helped you today to keep your government from falling. Do you understand that you have come to a position for Ukraine to assist you while fighting a war on your coalition?! [[Noise and lines on the left.]] Bulgaria is in a very complicated situation. There's a decision to be made here, and there's a party to be made. I repeat again because today the topic with Macedonia is back up to date and comments have been made again. Mr. Hristo Ivanov heard that he said in the couloirs that these, that there is pressure, are cheap conspiracy theories. Well, that's what Mr. Slavi Trifonov said first, that there's pressure. Do we trust our eyes or our ears? Because pressure turns out to be. By the way, every week a representative of a European state or of a European institution comes here and says: There are, of course, probably other pressure tools. Against this pressure we stand with our head buried in the sand without realizing our national interest or what we want. We make the whole world wonder what we really want? What do we want from Macedonia?! We know here what we want, but we are getting less and less understood by such positions and decisions as you are calling us today to take. Choose one of the two, or we choose to defend the Bulgarian interest in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, or we guard against being suspected of helping Ukraine. One of the two! Not to mention the hypocritical position in which we export weapons to Ukraine at all, but we say we do not export. In this way we further confirm the logic that some people who are not part of Europe live in Bulgaria. That's what you're asking us to do right now! And this position I will not speak at all about morality and so on, this position is harmful to the Bulgarian national interest which the current government, under the pressure of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, because there is only one interest in them the interest is not to lose their voters, it is not about anything else. I am sure that BSP colleagues know very well what this is about, but they cannot do it because they are afraid that their voters will not vote for them. And the whole Bulgarian state policy is already a hostage to this fear. All of us, all Bulgarian citizens, are about to capitulate on both topics on Ukraine and Macedonia. And I see no chance of not capitulating because we are brought here because we have a prime minister who is not at all aware of what this is about on either or on the other subject. If he had known, he wouldn't have said what he was saying, and he wouldn't have done what he was doing on both sides. And he's not here while we vote him some term, which we don't know exactly what he is, we don't even know if he wants it. We are about to release Macedonia unconditionally because such announcements are given. There is no guarantee that Macedonia will fulfil any commitment, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u166	Mr. Bikov, the subject is not Macedonia, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u167	No, the subject is extremely connected, and the fact that you can't understand it is your problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u168	I understand that perfectly, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u169	The topics are extremely connected because here we are talking about Bulgaria's position - one is lost and another is won. It's geopolitical. It's not about telling each other stories and lacrosses. We cannot trust people who have shown that they cannot be trusted. Macedonia's largest opposition political force says it will denounce the Friendship Treaty with Bulgaria. Well, they can come to power tomorrow and we won't be able to do anything, because now we're afraid that BSP will lose a fifth or a quarter of the voters because of it, and no one will believe us. Once again, it will be harder and harder to explain ours about Macedonia if we do not do so to help Ukraine and thus not that it will win the war for us, but thus to show that we are part of this community and that this community will then side with us when we talk on other topics outside the Ukrainians. When we talk about recovery from the war, where will we go then? Should we want a recovery plan in some neutral country? Which neutral country are we going to? Or someone with a soft spot? We'll go. I'll tell you where we'll go, any prime minister will go to Brussels and there will negotiate a recovery plan. He will not go to Moscow or Beijing or, if you will, to Washington, he will go to Brussels! If we do not now behave as part of this community, say yes, we have a sovereign policy, so tomorrow and Brussels can have a sovereign policy towards us. And they'll be right. Here we should think about it, perhaps for the last time, because this is one of the last speeches, whether our colleagues from "We continue the Change" not to withdraw this proposal, which simply reaffirms what we are doing right now and does not support our proposal, which also makes sense, because then you will show that Bulgaria has a comprehensive national position that includes the opposition within it. That's the strong point. It is not a strong position to calculate your votes with BSP and push through something that is nothing. The strong position is to find as broad an agreement as possible, to show Europe that there are Europeans here and to firmly defend the Bulgarian interest in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, where Bulgarians live and will continue to live. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u170	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Hristo Ivanov for a line. Mr. Ivanov, I don't think you have much time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u171	Now, I don't know if that's a personal explanation, but let's say it is. I understood the unifying theme of your speech, I think, Mr. Bikov, and it is Bulgaria's ability to bear a sole political responsibility on the international field, to be a completely dignified player in international relations. That is why I say that the idea of the pressure on which this folklore, which rolls on the Bulgarian media, has not started at all from the quoted post of the respected Mr. Trifonov, is an expression of our refusal to be an equal partner who is responsible. It's a part of an auto-victimization element, we're small, we're bosses pushing us, we're now so shuddering, whether to hide behind the desk, or behind the curtain, and somehow get out of all this. And the bosses are bad. We're good, small and tiny, we're hiding. At the moment when Bulgaria clearly defines its interests and can clearly articulate them, there will be no pressure. There will be a conversation between partners based on objective realities. But I want to say one more thing. This situation of Bulgaria does not begin at all now, but it begins here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u172	The weather, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u173	It starts with our willingness to give up on populist themes such as Northern Macedonia. Topics like the gas we'll see in the afternoon just how you're going to position yourself on it, because... [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Yeah, okay. Thank you. There must be language police, I agree, because there must be a right to speak, of course. But I'm really going to be very interested in what you're going to show, questions need to be asked. If there's any suspicion of corruption, this thing should be coming.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u174	Mr. Ivanov, more than one minute...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u175	But the attack on the Bulgarian position, when the Bulgarian government confronts the Bulgarian government, is also not an example of political behavior that can build and be the basis for a unified Bulgarian...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u176	Mr. Ivanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u177	Just one sentence. ...a responsible political exchange position on international ground. And this topic is connected.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u178	Thank you. Nastimir Ananiev for the second line, and Iskren Mitev for the third if there are no other members of another group. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Bikov, you've talked so much, you've spoken full of political alabalisms. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Somehow you'd like to position yourself as pro-Western. You'd like that very much. I even see that apart from Mr. Mitov, who has this form around him, no one else dares to speak. But somehow we all remember Putin's puppy, remembering the meeting with Russian Prosecutor General Chaika. Do you remember her? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Borisov, your leader. The meeting of Borisov "Tsatsarov" "Tchaika," remember it? Just when in fact, in Russian prison, the lawyer Magnsky was killed, from which the law came. I assume you remember her? We also remember how quickly you built Putin's pipe, but in fact, when you have to work for the interests of Bulgaria, you are nowhere. So I understand the desire to position yourself as pro-Westerns, like those who want to give up the old weapon that sucks for nothing, and at your command, this weapon has been collected. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] So, if that's the situation at the moment, that's what you left behind for the state. I've been listening to you, trying to see if you have anything interesting to say. No, you've got one or two porcupines, you're spinning around them. I am very interested in you answering one question, and it is about Macedonia.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u180	This is not about Macedonia, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u181	In 2020, did Boyko Borisov raise the veto for Northern Macedonia in Brussels or did he not lift it? Thanks. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u182	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you are, Mr. Mitev, for the third line. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. The debate is coming to an end.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bikov, while you were shouting so loudly from the stand, was heard by the more experienced politicians in the Chamber who said: "The loud tone is never a good argument. " This is also evident from your exhibition, Mr. Bikov............................................................... only your high toneigh. What do you mean, we shouldn't give the help that Ukraine wants from us, which is clearly requested, but give them the help that you suggest we should give them? Is that what you're trying to tell us?! Please clarify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u184	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. You have the floor for the duvet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman! I would rather summarize to Mr. Mitev and Mr. Ananiev the speeches: neither have they understood me nor have I been able to understand them and that will probably not change for a very long time. [[Laughter]] For Mr. Ivanov, I quoted Mr. Slavi Trifonov's position because he is a political factor. He's not some guy on the street suggesting one thing or another. In his position he spoke with facts, with arguments that the Western ambassadors were surprised that the government did not have a unified position and they thought that Mr. Kiril Petkov's position was the position of the entire government. Another question is what is Mr. Kiril Petkov's position. If anyone can tell me, I will be grateful, because here the problem is this: there is one dual behaviour and two of the parties in the current government are ready to lift the veto tomorrow and the only thing stopping them is that the other two parties in the government will leave the government and it will fall apart if they do not. Here is the same as with Ukraine and just the whole Bulgarian society becomes a hostage of your coalition balance, which last night from eight to eleven stood in the Council of Ministers, and today we cannot understand what they have decided. You haven't decided anything about Macedonia or Ukraine! I mention Macedonia for no reason, because there will be a next crisis and here we are still going to have a debate because there is also a saying: Parliament to give a mandate or whatever it is, and surely then there will be an empty chair here, because the one sitting on it will not know what to say because it does not understand it. We're all hostages here, and that's why we said a month ago that this government should resign. The fact is, because I read some comments by Mr. Radan Kanev on Facebook, and now you said it, and Mr. Slavov said it yesterday: it is not done! Yes, during the war, the leader of the first opposition party, for example, was not illegally arrested. This is not the way it is done, because this does not imply any establishment of a national position on these topics, and that is why we are now dealing here with your internal coalition balances, whose hostage, I repeat, is the whole Bulgarian society. I was going to tell you, "Sit down and get along," but I'm not going to tell you because you can't do it. If you could, you would have already done it! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u186	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u187	Mr. Chairman, a brief statement. Two weeks ago from this tribune and to all national media Mr. Slavov and Mr. Ivanov declared clearly and precisely: "If we don't send weapons to Ukraine, we will leave and review our participation in the coalition. " I would like to know: will the Democratic Ukraine turn again, or will it fulfill what it has committed to?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u188	Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. Are you here for a line, Mr. Georgiev? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ganev, you have failed to ask the same question except what you have called the Democratic Ukraine and the so-called BSP for Ukraine. After BSP...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u190	Colleagues, I'm going to ask you to use the names of the parliamentary groups, and I'm sure anyone can have a nickname.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u191	Okay. After BSP says they are against sending Bulgarian military equipment, notice, factory production, second-hand use, because it takes lives and this is against their morals something that really takes lives, we hope is against their morals. But where is their morality when Bulgaria will send renovated military equipment again second-hand, again Soviet production, only property of the Ukrainian state, which will also take human lives? Will the BSP leave the coalition and do the same...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u192	The weather, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u193	...from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria again because no military aid has been sent, as they insist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u194	Second line to Tsoncho Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ganev, you also neglected to say how much they pay you to distribute Russian propaganda from this tribune? Just let us know. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u196	Is there a third line first? I won't. The debate is coming out of being. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u197	Mr. Chairman! In Mr. Ivanov's long and spacious statement from a few minutes ago, it was explained how Russia is the aggressor who is currently fighting this war. I'd just like to remind you of a few facts. By the way, make a really interesting comparison by saying that by sacrificing honor and dignity, you end up losing both freedom and peace. However, let's go back eight years when Maidana took place and when our then foreign minister, Mr Vigenin, went to Ukraine and welcomed the new power he is ruling today. At this very moment in Donetsk and Lugansk, the only thing people wanted back then from the new power, and the first thing they did was to take away their right to speak and write in Russian, so only then, for which they began to rebel, was to have the right to speak and write in Russian. At first it all started like this and started chasing these people. A few months later, more than 100 people were burned alive at the House of Trade Unions, among them and a Bulgarian, after which they had already begun to secession this area and were declared separatists and all that we have witnessed for eight years were waged military action in these areas. So when we talk about not sacrificing honor, dignity to keep the peace, and we have to fight for all this stuff, let's go back eight years and see how this conflict started, because for eight years these people there have been bombarded daily and direct military action. What will Bulgaria do if this thing happens, say, in Macedonia, God forbid, and our Bulgarians are persecuted, killed, bombed for eight years? After all, we as a country and as proud Bulgarians should go and protect our people there! This is happening right now. At the moment in this House we comment on sending weapons to the war, which is fought between two brotherly people of ours and the Ukrainian people, and the Russian people are our brothers, Orthodox. We, at rebirth, cannot accept sending weapons in any form and disguised it under repair activities in Bulgaria, whether it opens the door, say that there are some facilities and all these things you want to hide. We will therefore vote against all these veiled decisions that you are proposing right now. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u198	Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor for a personal explanation, although I don't feel so strongly affected by what Mr. Ganev said, but yet one clarification must be made. Since they often like to talk about the rights of Bulgarians in Ukraine, I would just like to remind you that this visit in 2014 was related to exactly what he spoke about, namely the decision of the Supreme Rada of Ukraine to change the Law on Languages for both Bulgarians and Russian-speaking citizens of Ukraine in order not to be able to use their languages for administrative use. After my intervention and the support I organised in the European Union, this law did not come into force then, Mr. Ganev, and this can easily be verified. Bulgaria was then a factor in defining policy towards Ukraine, and I can say that we can always find the balance when we want to, because as we maintained good relations with Ukraine, so the last visit of a Russian foreign minister was in July 2014 at my invitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u200	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. We have three solutions and one editorial proposal. First of all, I will read the editorial proposal and ask Mr. Mihnev to confirm the text of the proposal. I'm just saying, I'm going to read the text of your editorial proposal and ask your confirmation that it's accurately reflected. Atanas Mihnev's proposal is in the Project for a decision, deposited by Kaloyan Ikonomov and a group of MPs, and in point 2, in front of the word No SAD 47-226 From there, the text is already going on according to the capabilities of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]] Just a second.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u201	According to a request by I.V. No SAD 47-226-00-4.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u202	According to the request by the IC. No AD 47-226 First is the editorial and then we move on to the main proposals, starting with the main proposals according to the order of the. Correction? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u203	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Sorry for the late intervention. I tried to do it in a conversation with the government to fix it myself, but let me do it from the stands, since there's no correction, so it's clear that someone did it anyway. Honourable Members, at point two, where you will quote a letter or request with an entry number, please do not do so. No parliament can make a decision which is mandatory for all authorities throughout the country, regardless of whose parliament it is to quote a diplomat's request. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]] Believe me, this will be taught in diplomatic schools in time as a negative example. This is a grave humiliation of institutionality in the country and absolutely unprecedented.. someone to comply with a letter of request of a diplomat!? I suggest that we list the demands, because I see that there is an agreement to satisfy them and the point to do so: It gives help first, second, or bolt, or whatever it is, if you want the entire letter quote it, but a letter requesting the ambassador, right, entry number one-one in a decision of the National Assembly... Think about it, you have lawyers. Give some thought to the honor of the institution.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u204	Thank you. Mr. Tsonev, you are making a procedural proposal: to write down all the points. How do we put this? The support to Ukraine is humanitarian, financial and military, as follows the six points, as they are, and should be completed according to the capabilities of the Republic of Bulgaria. Okay, we'll put that to the vote, too. In order of entering first is the proposal of Atanas Mihnev and if it is already rejected, then we will move on to that of Mr. Tsonev, and in the express transcript I see that in Mr. Mihnev's proposal is not a request, but a letter, so it will remain a letter. First, we vote on Atanas Mihnev's editorial proposal. If it is not accepted, then we move on to Jordan Tsonev's editorial proposal. Vote 229 MPs: for 102, against 116, abstention 11. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u205	Please rewrite the text. I'm not gonna motivate myself why.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u206	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. We're revising Atanas Mihnev's proposal. Vote 226 MPs: for 103, against 111, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We move on to Jordan Tsonev's editorial proposal. Now I'm gonna read it completely... Here you go, Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change we ask for a 30-minute break. [[Comments and shouts by GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u208	Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u209	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Although it is possible to request such a break under the Rules of Procedure provided, however, that we are not in a voting procedure. We are already voting on editorial proposals and draft decisions. In this sense, Mr President, it would be a mistake on your part if you would allow the parliamentary group to request this rest. Therefore, I ask you to rest after the vote on all the editorial changes that have taken place, the draft decisions. We have an emergency meeting in half an hour anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova, but we have given a break at this very moment before, and at your request. [[Voices from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] You're not right, honestly! So... Fifteen minutes, I'll give you the time you need. At 3:00 p.m., back to the gym, please. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u211	Sorry, guys. There was a final statement with the proposer. I apologize again. Last, Yordan Tsonev's proposal is as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 2. Helping Ukraine.. humanitarian, financial There's no correction so far. Then he goes on: "Military technical" according to the capabilities of the Republic of Bulgaria as follows: (a) continuing support for Ukraine's membership in the European Union; (b) aid to Ukrainian citizens fleeing the war... (b) here we add the text of point. 3 which is from the main proposal, namely: legislative and organisational measures aimed at improving reception capacity and integration opportunities until conditions for their permanent return to Ukraine are created;.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3 and, respectively,. 3 will be dismissed if this editorial proposal is accepted. (c) ensuring the possibility of exporting Ukrainian grain to Varna; (d) the strengthening of energy cooperation, in particular the supply of electricity from Ukraine and natural gas; (e) repair of Ukrainian military equipment in the military enterprises of the Republic of Bulgaria; (f) continuation of humanitarian aid supplies, in particular medicines, clothing and groceries. This is the text of the request to which it was referred in the previous... [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] And et cetera. Three down. This is how we shape Jordan Tsonev's request. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am making a procedural proposal. First, to vote on the proposals of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ and, respectively, of the Democratic Bulgaria. Then, if they do not receive a majority and are not accepted, we should proceed to the editorial proposal of Mr. Tsonev and the Project. In that sense, it is also art. 63 of our Rules. Mr. President, I think it is right and proper for the most remote proposals to be voted first at the time, and then the editorials of this proposal, which belongs to the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u213	Thank you. That's the way it is for the basic proposals. First, we have to run out of editorials so we started, so we're going to finish them, and now by forming the basics, with eventually accepted editorials, we're going to move on to the basics of...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u214	It's the other way around.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u215	I get it. [[Heckling]] We continue with Mr. Tsonev's proposal. We are voting on the editorial proposal of...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u216	Put my proposal to the vote first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u217	The order does not change according to the proposals for voting under art. 62. It doesn't change. That's true, Mr. Nenkov, but when we talk about basics. [[Relations from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] First, we have to run out of editorials and when the main ones are already with the adopted editorials shape and ready to vote, then we go to the main proposals in the order of action. I'm pretty sure of that. [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] First, we need to clear the editorials in order to shape the final versions of the decisions and they are already...... and then we are already voting the main ones. [[Noise and lines.]] In accordance with the opportunities of the Republic of Bulgaria. Yes, it is in the main text before the list of items. [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] That is exactly the way the Republic of Bulgaria used to be:..................................................................................................... [[Heckling]] We are voting on Yordan Tsonev's proposal. Vote 172 MPs: 156 against 15, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're overreacting. Vote 171 MPs: 155 against 15, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, there are no references to art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution. There's only art. 84 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly and there should be a reference to the constitutional text. This concerns the projects of decisions submitted by GERB-SDS and We are continuing the Change. I make identical proposals in both projects after: "The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution, then let's continue:. 84, para. 1 of the S.E.C. to... [[Heckling]] He's got it now. I am proposing that there be a constitutional text in both, but we will put it to the vote separately because they are separate decisions. First, in that of GERB-SDS to add the reason in the constitutional text. 86, para. 1 in the case, not only in the case of art. 84, para. 1. [[Heckling]] Editorial. Yeah. Vote 218 MPs: 178, against 22, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the identical proposal in the Draft Decision of the "We are continuing the Change" in the reason to add art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Vote 206 MPs: 190 against 13, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Once we have cleared the editorial amendments, we move on to the main proposals. First, I vote on the draft decision tabled by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. Vote 227 MPs: for 100, against 73, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. We are going to the vote The draft decision submitted by Atanas Slavov and a group of MPs from the parliamentary group of the Democratic Bulgaria. 200 MPs voted: 76 against 56, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. We are revisiting the proposal of the Democratic Bulgaria. 200 MPs voted: 79, against 50, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the last draft decision, deposited by Kaloyan Ikonomov and a group of MPs from the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group. Project! DECISION on the taking of measures relating to the war in Ukraine The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 84, para. 1 of the sub-system HAS DECIDED Gives mandate to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to discuss and implement a package of measures related to the war in Ukraine and its consequences in the following directions: 1. A comprehensive package of measures to address the consequences of the sanctions imposed in economic, financial and social aspects, as well as with regard to Bulgaria's energy and food security. 2. Assistance to Ukraine "Humanities, financial and military-technical', according to the capabilities of the Republic of Bulgaria, as follows: (a) continuing support for Ukraine's membership in the European Union; (b) assistance to Ukrainian citizens fleeing the war.. legislative and organisational measures in order to improve reception capacity and integration opportunities until conditions are created for their permanent return to Ukraine; (c) ensuring the possibility of exporting Ukrainian grain to Varna; (d) strengthening energy cooperation in particular the supply of electricity from Ukraine and natural gas; (e) repair of Ukrainian military equipment in the military enterprises of the Republic of Bulgaria; (f) continuation of humanitarian aid supplies in particular medicines, clothing and groceries. That's the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u218	I need a 15-minute break. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u219	I didn't announce the regime. We're not in procedure, it didn't leave. [[Noise and lines.]] I gave it to her last time. We're just gonna delay the emergency hearing. It was the same on the last one, but... Fifteen minutes of rest until twenty. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u220	I'm resuming the hearing. Is there a procedure? Okay. Procedure and then we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we just took a break procedure on behalf of the parliamentary group to discuss in fact what decision the National Assembly is about to take, because the decision it had to take, or one of the decisions that the National Assembly had to take, whether by GERB or by the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, were rejected. I declare that the draft decision, which, following the editorial changes proposed by the Committee on Rights and Freedoms, will vote on the plenary, is in the sense that the National Assembly is willing to support the continuation of support for Ukraine's membership in the European Union. Is there any party member of the forty-seventh parliament against it? [[Noise and lines.]] We'll see about the vote in a few minutes. [[Replyes: "What is the procedure? "]] GERB-SDS as part of the European People's Party supports Ukraine's membership in the European Union...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u222	Mrs. Atanasova, this is a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u223	Mr. Chairman, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u224	Thirty seconds, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u225	GERB also supports the assistance for Ukrainian citizens fleeing the war, and surely no person in this room would think otherwise. GERB will also support the removal of grain and tackling the food crisis of the Republic of Ukraine, as well as the strengthening of energy co-operation...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u226	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u227	We believe that humanitarian aid should continue to be provided in this sense, and in particular medicines, clothing and groceries. And now, most importantly, colleagues, with the clear awareness that this decision you are proposing is nothing, because the National Assembly could have made another meaningful decision and really helped...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u228	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u229	GERB will support this decision [[noise, lines: "This is a statement, not a procedure. "]] because we are convinced Euro-Atlantics and we would support any decision that benefits peace and cooperation between the Member States of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u230	Voting mode. Vote 217 MPs: 200 against 16, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. For an explanation of negative vote Peter Petrov, Iskra Mihaylova and Angel Georgiev? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, thank you to this People's Representative from.. We continue the Change..... who voted against................................... I personally voted against, not because it was obvious that Bulgaria was giving military assistance to Ukraine anyway disguised as military supplies to other countries, allegedly other final recipients. I voted against mainly because this decision has also been seen as a fruit of a broad political bargaining between the ruling coalition. Dear MPs, it has been seen that despite the recent months "Democratic Bulgaria" was talking on TV about how we will provide military weapons and equipment written in the motives of their bill. It was seen how, although the BSP vowed that they would leave the coalition if the Council of Ministers voted military aid for Ukraine, and it came to a decision that is legal nothing. I have already been explained, for example, by Dr. Kostadinov just now that there is no way to export grain to Ukraine from the port in Varna. I voted against because it has been shown that this coalition cannot reach consensus on any important foreign policy issue, and I am convinced that, as decisions are made only after broad political bargaining, which do not show a consolidation of the ruling majority, unfortunately, so will decisions be made in the internal policy plan, and so can no longer govern our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u232	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Here you go, Mrs. Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u233	Dear Mr. Chairman! Let it be clear to all Bulgarian citizens that we have just voted for military assistance to Ukraine, because what is recorded at the point of the military assistance, in fact, means military assistance. And all of the a, b, c, g, its letters were only for the justification that this poorly assembled coalition in the Bulgarian National Assembly should remain together. Because otherwise the thunderous appearances from the leftmost to the rightmost end of the hall would have put in a very awkward position the groups of the Democratic Bulgaria. Because then this coalition should be closed right now, at this moment. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u234	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u235	We, of course, have been monitoring these political organizations for too long and it is clear enough that they never keep their word and that at the moment these interests, which are being served, have nothing to do with the Bulgarian national interests. We have just intervened in a military conflict, we have just shown how we are managed and receive recommendations, not to say orders, outside which are coordinated not only with our government, with our government, with our ruling coalition with its representatives in the National Assembly, but also with foreign countries. Now the Bulgarian citizens must look very well and see who is the coalition in the National Assembly, which rules, and which is the only opposition in the face of rebirth, which became clear with our vote against. And they can go to the trouble of looking at how the other votes went. The proposal of a Democratic Bulgaria with votes from GERB and DPS. It's too clear! Thank you. [[Private applause from AGE.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u236	Thank you. Mr. Georgiev for the third explanation of negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u237	Dear Mr. Chairman! Today we witnessed a parade of hypocrisy. There's been a lot of talk, a lot of talk. Let's start with the most prominent representatives of the BSP. They were going to leave, they were definitely against it, then they were talking about their morals about how they couldn't send weapons to take lives. We agree on that. But what happened? If these weapons are owned by the Bulgarian state, then they do not agree. However, if the weapons are repaired in Bulgaria, Ukrainian weapons, then they agree. Or, in other words, military aid. With this criminal decision today, the status quo was legitimized, namely: six parties that serve foreign, non-Bulgarian national interests and one single "Employment" that works for the Bulgarian national interest, which does not want us to engage in a war that does not want to give military, technical or any other assistance that drags us directly into this conflict. And for this thing, we are consistent about, from the first day of the outbreak of the war to the moment and we will continue, unlike parties, I repeat, as BSPs who change their minds, come out, say one thing, finally say: it will become a second, let it be technical assistance, let it be a repair of military equipment, finally support military technical assistance. Also, I would like to stress that we also see in the right space exceptional servantship and service of foreign national interests. They swear GERB and Democratic Bulgaria who is more, more, the most loyal to the foreign American, and not only, embassy and how they are from the largest, largest Euro-Atlantic, something that we have said since the age of many times that it is harmful to Bulgaria. And let every Bulgarian citizen think whether his elect voted as he would vote in their place and in the next elections, if necessary, to correct his vote. Thank you. [[Private applause from AGE.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u238	Colleagues of old age, I remind you to treat other MPs with respect, if not because of upbringing, because the Rules require it. With this, we have exhausted this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u239	Colleagues, since we're starting an emergency meeting, that is, a new meeting, I'm asking for registration. There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. We are now in the time of the extraordinary meeting, for which there is only one point left, namely: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA KIRKOV, THE MINISTER OF THE ENERGY ALEXANDER NIKOLOV, THE DIRECTOR OF THE BULGARIAN ENERGY HOLDING, THE DIRECTOR OF THE BULGARGAZ We're going into the hearing. Before I give the floor to the importer, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the hall of the Director of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, the Director of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, the Director of the Bulgarian Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the Chairman of the SANS. Please vote on admission to the hearing room. They voted 165 MPs: 165, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hearing room. The hearing will be done in the way that we did the previous hearing, where there was more than one hearing, and after the development of the proposal by the importer, each hearing person will have 10 minutes to make his observations. Then we will have two rounds of questions to all the persons heard, i.e. a total of 14 questions, and then five minutes of attitude from each parliamentary group. I give the floor to the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS for exhibition. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova. You have five minutes to make an exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! It is clear to everyone that energy is one of the most important sectors of the country's economy. It is a structural-determining sector, a sector directly related to national security, and this is not a coincidence, as energy security is practically national security. This is also the sector, which directly affects every Bulgarian family, affects every Bulgarian business. From how energy is managed and what are the prices of energy carriers depends largely on the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy. Therefore, after a press release from the Ministry of Energy on 26 April this year, we learned that the supplies of natural gas to Bulgaria from the main supplier, Gszprom, will be stopped, this caused a series of questions because, under the Energy Act, when it comes to such important national security issues, there is a clearly written provision that says who defines state policy in energy. And this, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, is the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers! Once this information became known, we had long wondered why, after more than a month it became clear that talks were held, negotiations with the Gazprom, there was clarity that there was a risk of stopping supplies, you did not find time to come to the Bulgarian Parliament to familiarize the MPs with the situation. I believe that this was your duty, Mr. Prime Minister, and this is your obligation by law that you have not actually fulfilled. Subsequently, after certain facts and circumstances have become known about the situation and after we have found out that you already have the government of the Political Party GERB during the years in which it manages has done everything possible to ensure the diversification of natural gas sources and routes, and that you have also confirmed it by saying that Bulgaria has the opportunity to transport gas from the south, from the north, from the north, from the north, 20 billion from the south, all this is true and this is true, but this is a result of a lot of work over the last 10 years of the management of the Political Party GERB. Because no infrastructure in the energy sector is happening on its own. All compressor stations have been replaced so we can have reverse connections right now. We increased the capacity of the Tower/Sidirocastro in June 2019 so that two billion cubic metres of gas can pass today. But these are, of course, facts in which I am very happy that you have seen for yourself and that the Bulgarian society is really aware that in the management of the Political Party GERB we have done everything necessary so that we can ensure the so important diversification of the sources and routes for natural gas supply for Bulgaria. Since the reasons why we were not informed about the reasons that led to the suspension of supplies, the analyses that you are sure to have done about the consequences that this will lead to, how much the prices of natural gas supply will be increased accordingly, how you will provide alternative supplies, whether the company, whose main function is to satisfy the needs of the natural gas society and to be a public supplier....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We therefore believe that it is extremely important that you give answers to all these questions today, so that both the National Assembly and the Bulgarian citizens get the full, accurate and correct information. Believe me, Prime Minister, if you had introduced us to the situation when it required the law, I think there is no political power in parliament that would not unite around protecting our national interests. So the violation that you have committed to the Energy Act, I think it is true that it is yet another violation that is being done by you those in charge of the Energy Act, which you do not respect much of the law, but in any case, I believe that this is a mistake from which you will learn the relevant lessons. Now we will be interested in you to provide us with information on how Bulgaria's natural gas needs will be met in the coming months and what your steps will be. How will you publicly and transparently convince the Bulgarian society that you supply natural gas at the lowest prices and this natural gas is really an alternative supply, not a supply of Russian gas, but at a higher price? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Here you are, Prime Minister, for an answer within 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u242	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our government's priorities in relation to gas supplies are clear. There are three: firstly, to have enough gas; secondly, delivery to be at minimal risk; and thirdly, to be at the best price so as to allow the Bulgarian economy to be competitive. What did we find four months ago? Bulgaria's total dependence on Gszprom; 3 billion paid for a pipe that we cannot use; an unfinished link to Greece, about which it started talking 10 years ago, in an absolutely unfit state to be used, large sections in general unfinished; a failure of 70% of the Azeri gas, which was one third of the price. All of this is just when the energy crisis in Europe started, which, as we all know, is not a function in itself, it is a function of war. Putin managed to reduce gas levels in the gas storage facilities in Germany as early as summer and autumn. At that time, when prices were rising four times, we were with the only supplier. What happened is the exact experience with "Gazprom. " We received a letter from them about a unilateral change of contract. In this unilateral change of the contract they said the following: we want the Bulgarians to open an account in Gazprombank, in which there is also an account in rubles; we want you to have the payments in euros or dollars, but we will revalue them on a course that we choose and the payment to Gazpromöm is only valid when the rubles enter our company. What does that mean in practice? A few things. First of all, you don't know what the price will be at any time. That depends...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u243	You don't care about her!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u244	Please don't interrupt. This depends on the rate of dollar-rubli or euro-rubli, because the final payment is taken in rubles. Secondly, by putting a mediator between us and Gazprom, we are bringing in a country that is not under contract. By paying this country, there is nothing to guarantee that our money will be seen back, or whether we will receive our gas. In fact, if we look together, what does the Russian side say? We break the contract unilaterally, the price of gas may vary, as we decide, and the supplies are uncertain to you because you will pay to a third party that is not under the contract. We are not talking about geopolitics here; we are not talking about ideology; we are talking about a clear violation of the treaty and bending of hands on a mechanism that allows this approach to continue every month. However, we were ready for this scenario. What have we done? Firstly, since the Minister of Energy and the entire government entered its current positions, we have started working on diversification, we have started following the process and progress of the gas connection with Greece weekly. To the extent that we went into detail, we even went all the way and saw exactly where the work was supposed to be speeded up. I personally informed Minister Mizzotakis perhaps more than 20 times in the last four months and we were able to negotiate a clear date for the completion of the physical construction of this interconnector. I can boast from yesterday's review back in place that this date will be possible and this interconnector will be completed. Next thing. What have we done? As I said to you, unfortunately, last year Bulgaria had given up 70% of the Azeri gas, which we could receive at a price of one third of that of Refusal is until June 30th. In other words, we have signed a unilateral annex with which we say: by June 30 we give up this amount. We are currently talking with the Azeri country, with their investors, including the British Petroleum, in order to negotiate the opportunity not to wait until June 30th, but to get the gas from the beginning of June, perhaps even at the end of May. I believe that, together with the Minister of Energy, this will be achieved. At the same time, we had a plan for buying liquefied gas. This plan was only when the gas supply was stopped and in such a case we would be prepared not to stop the submission of the Bulgargaz to the end customers and all households would not feel any problem. It's happening right now. I can say that we have succeeded, even though Gazprom gave us only 24 hours from notification to suspension. The gas supply hasn't slowed down or the price has jumped so far. Everything is under control. The next thing we did. [[Arrival in GERB-SDS.]] We talked to the European Commission about buying gas together at European Union level. This is particularly important when the European market is the largest market and the market forces together are much larger than when each country buys one. That is why, as early as tomorrow, the European Commission is opening a working group that will be permanently based in Sofia, and the energy ministers that will come are Italy, Greece, Romania, Turkey, Serbia, northern Macedonia, Ukraine and Azerbaijan. Not only are we diversifying the gas for Bulgaria at the moment, but we may also be the answer for the whole region, including Ukraine. The other thing we're doing right now. We are in advanced negotiations directly with the American side and directly with Egypt. We hope that the prices that we will achieve of liquefied gas from these two countries will be such that the total mix of our price will not be higher than that of the Gazprom. Which means what did we do? Despite the unilateral termination of the contract, despite the attempt to bend the hands of the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian energy companies, we managed not to stop the gas supply, we were ready with diversification and now we are working on options that not only solve Bulgaria's problems, but also the whole region at a price equal to or less than that of Gsulfrom. I think these are some good results in such a short time. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u245	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Here you are, Mr. Nikolov, for an exhibition by you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, in addition to just saying that the infrastructure on which natural gas is currently running and which is used to explain diversification is actually the existing one, much of it was built in the 1970s. Rumor has it that it's been built for the last 10 years, well, to put it mildly, oddly. [[Reply from the National Representative Temenuzhka Petkova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u247	Can we get out of place, Mrs. Petkova? Then within the questions you will have the opportunity to ask. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u248	In data in kilometers approximately 25% was built, cost 3 billion with total costs and depended on only one supplier. So much for systematic risk. The payment also depends on a single supplier. Finally, I will say only one thing to us during the war, the concern for the partner concerned, especially one from Russia, is touching. The fact that you have bothered to look at how much effort the Bulgarian energy holding company has made, the whole government, in order not to interrupt gas supplies within 24 hours, is strange. You can make the conclusion which is more important to you, whether the Bulgarian society, or Russia. [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u249	Mr. Dobrev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u250	Mr. Dobrev, you can talk at home. Thank you. [[Voices from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u251	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues, I ask you very much for mutual respect! [[Reply from the National Representative Lyuben Dilov.]] Mr. Dilov! Mr. Dilov! [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]] Mr. Dobrev! [[Extreme lines by National Representative Delyan Dobrev.]] Mr. Dobrev! Mr. Dobrev, Mr. Dilov, please, we must maintain respect for the persons who are here today for a hearing. I give the floor to the Director of the Bulgarian Energy Holding to expose his position if he wishes. You have 10 minutes to present your opinion on the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u252	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the part of the Bulgarian Energy Holding all measures have been taken to support the actions of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and Bulgargaz (Bulgartransgaz) to ensure continuous supply to the Bulgarian consumers, providing the necessary financial resources. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] Additional consultants are attracted to provide a corresponding analysis of contracts and contractual relations with [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] It must be clear that, in this situation, under the conditions of the Sensational regime towards Russia, we have no way of doing any analysis with regard to the European Union's sanctions, they must be clear from the European Commission itself. From here on, we can interpret them only within our capabilities, so we cannot be independent outside the European Union. At the moment, what I can say is that the Bulgarian Energy Holding fully supports the efforts of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and Bulgargaz with the Ministry of Energy, the relevant acts and orders have been issued and measures have been taken to secure the funding. I don't think there are any risks at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u253	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the director of Bulgargaz. If he wishes to express his attitude. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u254	As Mr. Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy mentioned, Mr. Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) received a letter from Gazprom Export (Gazprom) on 1 April 2022 informing us that payments under the Treaty should be made under the decree issued by the President of the Russian Federation. This decree is binding on the "Gazprom Export" because it is a Russian legal entity and the current way of payment described in the Treaty cannot be applied. Applications of a new payment mechanism, I think they have both already spoken, but it is basically about the fact that "Bulgargaz" has to open two bank accounts in "Gazprombank" in its own name, one in US dollars, the other in Russian rubles, therefore it has to transfer US dollars into its own name into the bank account by "Gazprombank" and from there is no control of these funds anymore. According to the Ukhaza, Gazprombank revalues US dollars by selling them to the Moscow Stock Exchange in auctions. After receiving these rubles, she authenticated the bank account to "Bulgargaz" and hence, once again professionally, from the bank account of "Bulgargaz" in Russian rubles, she paid to "Gazprom Export" the rubles. Risks of accepting or rejecting this proposal. In general, Bulgargaz is consulted as soon as the letter is received with an international consulting company. According to them, the proposed new gas payment mechanism implies a real risk that Bulgargas will be in default or default of its monetary obligations related to the supply of natural gas in the event of a delay by the authorised bank OOO Gazprom Export, which is respectively a related person to Gazprom Export. In this case, Bulgargas is deprived of the ability to control the actions of the Russian side and does not have any agreed mechanism for protection against liability. The described mechanism suggests that when conducting organised auctions on the Moscow Stock Exchange referred to in the Ukhaza, the same will have sufficient stocks in Russian rubles to carry out the re-valutation within the time limit so that the Bulgargaz will not be delayed. There are no guarantees for continuity and sufficient availability of the proposed paying currency, as well as the possibility of granting discharge to Bulgargas. This process is completely beyond the control of the Bulgarian side and would lead to the imposition of sanctions provided for in the Treaty. Beyond the proposed new conditions, it should be noted that the Decree, which is binding for the Russian gas supplier, also provides for other procedures that are not bound by objective criteria and further increase the legal uncertainty of the adoption of the proposal. Outside of the so described commercial, financial and legal risks that would be assumed by Bulgargaz, in case actions were taken to follow the instructions of the Russian side under the threat that supplies would be suspended, there is also a reputational risk to the Bulgarian side of violation of sanctions imposed by the European Union of the Central Bank of Russia, which is one of the active participants on the foreign exchange market. After the suspension of natural gas supplies, which we received by letter late in the evening of the 26th, Bulgargaz is taking all possible measures to negotiate quantities in order not to introduce a restrictive regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u255	Thank you, too. I give the floor now to the director of the Bulgartransgaz, if he wishes to express his attitude. Mr. Marinov, you have the floor and 10 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u256	Dear Lord President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister of Energy, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In relation to the question asked, what I would like to assure you is that, at present, the system of Bulgartransgaz, it is also of the Republic of Bulgaria, functioning in a normal state. The requests of the clients of Bulgartransgaz are provided in full volume, and this regime takes place from April 26th, when, by operational route, the dispatchers of the Bulgartransgaz (Bulgargaz) received a notification from Gazprom Export (Gazprom) that the approved requests for Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) for the gas day 27th of April from 9:00 a.m. will be zero. That didn't cause any shocks at the time. There is no real danger, as we analyze on a daily basis regarding the possibility of introducing a restrictive regime, which for the first 48 hours under the current legislation is a function of the Bulgartransgaz. From another point of view, what is taking place at the moment, I would like to inform you that on 4 May, at the warehouse in Chiren, which is operated and is owned by the Bulgartransgaz, there is little more than 103 million cubic metres of natural gas available. Some of them are owned by Bulgartransgaz. The rest is owned by Bulgargaz. These quantities, according to the technical production capacity available in the warehouse, would provide about 40% of Bulgaria's summer consumption over a period of about 42 days. What we have done in preparation prior to receiving the communication from the "Gazprom Export" respectively, has injected additional quantities at its own expense in the warehouse about 20 million cubic metres between 10 and 30 April, so that we can ensure the continuity of gas supply. Our gas network is in satisfactory technical condition and is ready through all entry points with which we have connectivity with neighbouring markets and neighbouring operators, to accept quantities to satisfy consumption in Bulgaria. The warehouse in Chiren is also fully prepared to inject additional quantities into it or, where appropriate, to initiate extraction mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u257	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Mr. Todorov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u258	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are gathered to discuss the issue of gas supply and price. This is a major topic in the last week of public attention and the KEWRC has its opinion and proposal for a solution to this. Before I address a specific topic, I would like to ask your attention in general to the topic of energy in Bulgaria and Europe. So, first of all, I'm going to say some things in common. In one year, the price of electricity and gas energy in Europe has increased four times. That's 400 percent. Obviously, this increase is not due to normal market forces. This increase has one supervisor and this is Russia. Russia supplies 40% of gas in Europe and a total of over 60% of energy in Europe. It all started a year ago when rumours spread that Russia did not fill the gas stores at the normal pace at which it filled them in the previous years. In summer, we have already begun to see an increase in prices, at the beginning of autumn, when these rumours were confirmed, the dramatic leap occurred both in the price of gas and in the price of electricity throughout Europe. Why? Because most of Europe produces its electricity from gas plants. Why am I remembering this? This reminds me so that we do not have any illusions that what is happening is specific for Bulgaria or is something that will pass quickly, or is something that will pass lightly without taking the necessary measures. This energy crisis in Europe has been deliberately triggered by Russia to achieve its political objectives. These political goals have been the same in the last 10 years and they will continue to be the same perhaps for an indefinite period, for a long time. The countries that manage to understand this and adapt will be able to survive will be able to prosper. And here is our task, of all of us, to introduce such state policies, with which Bulgaria will not only survive, but prosper. Two policies I would recommend we introduce. One concerns electricity. To introduce long-term contracts for Bulgarian consumers, businesses and households to be able to buy their electricity. The second one concerns the gas. In view of the cessation of the gas supply from Gszprom, we will release the gas market in Bulgaria by removing all barriers for the commercial participants, including the reserve of capacity. Let us note what the situation is at the moment. All Bulgarian electricity producers are selling their electricity on the market. Why? Because there are the highest prices of 400, 500, 600 BGN. That's normal. What is not normal is that Bulgarian consumers, including business, are forced and can buy only at these prices, only on this market segment. It's not like that anywhere in Europe. Here, on Monday, German Economy Minister Robert Habek noted that most German companies have long-term contracts at a fixed price until 2023. These are three-year contracts. The Bulgarian business does not have such an opportunity. What I propose is that we change this and introduce an obligation of the electricity producers in Bulgaria to provide the electricity produced by them under long-term contracts. What the Bulgarian business needs to have a business strategy in order to have a market plan. This will help the whole Bulgarian economy not only the business but also the households. You know that RES companies, the main component of their price, are the costs of electricity, you know that for energy distribution companies to transport, a large cost is the cost of electricity to cover technological losses. This will also help electricity producers, which will have long-term security both at production and at prices to which they sell electricity. Every country in Europe has such a policy to promote long-term contracts. Let's introduce her to Bulgaria! And let's introduce it now, in May, when prices are lowest, so that we can be prepared for the winter period before it arrives. A few words regarding gas. There's a lot of speculation about who's done what in the last 10 days. But let's see what the facts are. There are two long-term contracts. Currently, the long-term contract under the "Gszprom" should cover 90% of the consumption, with the Azerbaijani gas company covering about 10% of the consumption in Bulgaria. On April 26th, unilaterally, without notice, Gazprom stopped the supply. On April 27, Bulgaria lost 90% of the supplies it was due to receive from This is unilateral, without notice, in violation of the existing contract. In order to secure the consumption for May, the Bulgargaz is demanding offers from 12 companies, received offers from 8 companies, ranked at the lowest price are 3 companies. In such a critical situation, I believe you will agree, you should not seek the conspiracy, because in such a critical situation decisions must be made. What Bulgaria managed to do within just a week after "Gazprom" stopped supply, to find alternative supplies. It's a feat, and that's the news of the day. From now on, what should we do to protect Bulgarian consumers? The Bulgarian market must start to announce tenders for the quantities needed for open public tenders, clear rules and procedures. In parallel to this, we need to start working, and I believe the government is doing so to conclude long-term contracts with more than one supplier. It's clear there's a global war going on. It is clear that Russia is using its strongest weapon to achieve its political goals. Bulgaria cannot remain the victim of this war and we must find the solution. I believe that our national interest dictates from now on that we have several suppliers, on long-term contracts, so that we do not depend on the political objectives and ambitions of one of them. With gas there is another very important topic and this is capacity. Generally, in order to achieve the lowest prices, all companies must have free and equal access to the market both in electricity and gas. This concerns two components: one is the energy itself and the other is the transport how it will be delivered to consumers. All transmission facilities, such as pipes, stations, branches, even terminals, like Alexandroupolis and Revitus, have capacity. This capacity must be open to all participants because, who holds the capacity, understand this is the tap of the pipe, it determines what gas, what quantities and at what price will enter Bulgaria. It is no coincidence that Gazprom has reserved most of the capacity in Bulgaria as well as in the Republic of Serbia and Hungary. We must take immediate measures to release this capacity so that all traders and suppliers who want to supply gas in Bulgaria can do so at the lowest price. If I could sum it up in one sentence. I'm offering you two electricity policies. Let us oblige traders to offer their electricity under long-term contracts to Bulgarian businesses and consumers and let us release the gas market so that all traders and suppliers can have access to it. It is important for me to have this conversation now, because if we introduce these policies today, in May, we will be ready in autumn. If we introduce them in the fall, it'll be too late. This is our role and our responsibility to Bulgaria and I believe that we can handle it. I believe that Bulgaria and we can all together make sure that we come up with minimal damage from this crisis. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u259	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. I give the floor to the President of the State Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u260	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, heads of energy companies! According to the information received in the State Agency, the information as likely motives for Russia's unilateral decision to interrupt the supply of natural gas under the long-term contracts with Bulgaria and Poland can be indicated: pressure on the Bulgarian and Polish Government in relation to their support for Ukraine, demonstration of the possible negative economic consequences for the heavily dependent countries of the European Union, in refusing to unilaterally implement the contractual conditions imposed by Russia in the supply of natural gas, verification of the reactions at EU level and of the determination of all member states for the long-term refusal of supply of Russian natural gas and for the continuation of the plantation regime against Russia, bringing further division into the European and, in particular, the Bulgarian public with regard to the policy of Russia since the beginning of the military invasion in Ukraine. And last but not least, increase the price of blue fuel. Probably the time for the announcement of Russian payment requirements in rubles and taking follow-up action to stop supply in their failure was chosen in advance by the Russian authorities so that the first payments would be from Bulgaria and Poland. Just for information, a timeline of the communication between the Bulgargaz and the Gazprom, prior to the notification of the suspension of gas supplies. On April 1st, Gazprom Export is announcing to "Bulgargaz" that, in implementation of Decree No 172 of 31 March of the President of the Russian Federation, natural gas supplies to the so-called enemy countries, such as Bulgaria, must be paid exclusively in rubles. On 13 April, by a decision of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of Bulgargaz On April 15th, a letter was sent by Bulgargaz. A letter was sent to Gazprom to provide clarification on the new conditions for payment. On April 22, "Gazprom Export" informed the President of the Russian Federation that future payments under the current terms of the treaty were no longer possible in implementation of Decree No 172. Despite the claims of the Bulgarian supplier that the Decree does not have the right to act on it, it informs that in refusing to accept the new conditions, it puts at risk the possibility of carrying out further supplies of natural gas under the contract. On April 26th, an attempt was made to pay an advance payment on an account of the U.S. dollar Gazprom Export on an invoice for the amounts requested for natural gas for May. The payment has not been approved. The invoice does not indicate a bank account. It is explicitly noted that the payment should be made in accordance with Decree No 172 of the President of the Russian Federation. On the same day on April 26th at 18:00 in Bulgartransgaz is received a message from a dispatch line from Russia that the request of Bulgargaz is not approved. A similar message has been sent to "Bulgargaz" (Bulgargaz). On the same day, Gazprom Export is informing the Bulgarian gas supplier that as of 7:00 Eastern European time on April 27th the supplies to him are suspended. According to expert assessments in the possible acceptance by Bulgaria of Russia's mechanism for the payment of gas supplies in rubles, the likely risks are related to the lateness or failure to meet the monetary obligations of Bulgargaz. This is due to the lack of guarantees from the Russian side that the availability of rubles on the Moscow Stock Exchange will be sufficient to ensure continuity of the process. Discrediting Bulgaria before the partners from the European Union before the adoption of a united position of the community on the unilateral change in the conditions of Russian natural gas supplies to the enemy member states, among which we are also defined as a state. Individual decisions and actions of Bulgaria in such a direction can be defined as a retreat from the supported shading policy towards Russia. The negative effects on national security of the suspension of gas supplies are multi-spectrum, as they affect financial stability, the functioning and competitiveness of key companies in the economic, industrial, energy and social sector. In the forthcoming situation of stopped Russian natural gas supplies, the main risks are the need to seek alternative routes for the supply of natural gas in an extremely urgent order. According to the data in the most optimistic scenario for putting into operation on 1 July 2022, as we have assurances from Greece, the gas interconnection Bulgaria "Greece" will be delivered in Bulgaria about 1 billion. Cube. m natural gas per year. In the short term, the assessment of the supply of limited quantities of natural gas from other suppliers through the gas infrastructures of Romania, Greece and Turkey at significantly higher than previous prices, given the increasing competition on the gas market in South East Europe and the pre-eminent provision of the countries of the region for own consumption. Increase the price of natural gas for end-users, including as a result of its purchase by intermediaries and purchasers. It should be borne in mind that the majority of natural gas is regulated through market origin Russia, which means that even if it is purchased by other suppliers and not by There are some estimates that the liquefied gas terminal on the island of Revitus will not be enough to satisfy the consumption of Greece and Bulgaria at the same time when possible suspension of supplies from the "Gazprom Export" and our southern neighbour. The payments in Greece are coming, I think, around May 20th. Inability to fill at least 80% of the capacity of PGH by the end of 2022. This measure is also laid down as part of the European strategy for reducing the independence from Russian blue fuel by the end of 2022. In the current situation, if the necessary amounts of natural gas are not found in May and June, it will not be able to be absorbed in the gas tank. Despite the measures taken to modernise the storage infrastructure and the launched capacity extension project, there are still technical problems which create conditions for the loss of natural gas in the event of a potential accident in the facility. Hybrid impact by combining energy tools with cyber attacks against critical infrastructure information systems. In support of the actuality of the risk is the information about such activity in Ukraine and Romania, as well as in Bulgaria against the website of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory and against the information systems of the Bulgarian Post Office. In conclusion, it can be summarised that non-timely provision of alternative sources and supply routes will directly affect price increases for consumers, particularly vulnerable to continuous production. In this regard, escalating social tensions can be expected, as there are already among businesses to increase and extend state compensation, in the conditions of rising inflation and slow recovery from the pandemic economy. Financing such measures will likely require a significant increase in our external debt. In conclusion, as the meeting is open and a large part of the information cannot be disclosed, I will not only confirm what is being confirmed by the President of the KEWR and said that the contract concluded for the delivery of gas in May is at a price slightly lower than the one being paid at the time of the Gazprom Export. And I would just like to draw your attention to Decree No 252 of the President of the Russian Federation on 3 May, that is, since yesterday, to the implementation of special economic measures: The decree is framework, with countries and legal entities that will fall under this banning regime being determined by additional decisions of the Russian government. It is possible that within the framework of this mechanism the supply to Bulgaria of critically important raw materials will be terminated.. spare parts, equipment, provision of services, basic expertise, implementation of commitments under contracts already concluded, including in the field of energy, including nuclear, defence and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u261	Thank you, Mr. Tonchev. I give the floor to Mr. Gechev, Chairman of the State Agency. Mr. Gechev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u262	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues before me have said a lot of things about the situation at the moment after the gas supply to Bulgaria has ceased. I will only brief you on what things look like in the other Member States of the European Union, our partners who are about to receive payments and what their reactions are at the moment. Although most countries do not intend to pay in rubles, it is objective that some of them cannot give up Russian energy resources entirely at this stage. In this context wait, as the Prime Minister said, and the Minister of Energy is actively working to draw up a common European solution so that EU sanctions are not violated and at the same time provide energy sources for member states. It should be taken into account in this situation that private energy companies are not explicitly mentioned in EU sanctions against Moscow, therefore it is assumed that they can still make payments in Russian rubles. According to unconfirmed data, I stress unconfirmed data, there are currently private companies in Member States of the European Union that have opened accounts in Russian banks for payment in Russian rubles. Hungary has officially stated that it is ready to use Moscow's payment scheme. The Austrian company OMW is currently planning to make the upcoming payments for Russian natural gas in May, actively working to find a solution to how this should happen without violating the EU's sanctions against Moscow. There is also a similar situation with the German concern, which is also planning to pay the German government at the end of May, but is discussing the issue with the German government in order to form a coherent position so as not to violate sanctions. In Greece, the main Russian gas importer, the state-owned DEPA Motors, intends to approach extremely carefully, as they are also due to be paid in May to the Gazprom. In general, the expectations here are that in the absence of a definitive and approved European approach the company's behaviour will largely follow that of Germany and how German companies react. The Greek private companies - Mittilineos and Kopelusos - group - will probably comply with Russia's requirements and can make payments in rubles. At the moment, the position of the Republic of Northern Macedonia is that there is also a tendency to pay in rubles due to a lack of serious alternatives. Slovakia, although there is no clearly stated position on how exactly it will happen, is planning that the purchase of Russian gas will be in line with both the terms of the existing contract with the "Gszprom" and the common arrangements within the European Union. It does not demonstrate a tendency to violate the rules for payments in rubles. The situation with the Italian ENI is similar. There are also discussed options so that the payment can be made simultaneously and that the European requirements are not violated. Here we are talking about all these companies and countries are facing payments within this month, I am simply introducing you to how they are being approached. The Danish "Orsted" has refused to pay in rubles, does not intend to conclude new long-term contracts with Russian counterparties or to continue now in force. The Czech Republic and Finland have also clearly declared that they do not accept Russia's demands for payment in rubles. So far, the French company, Total Energy, is receiving liquefied gas from the Novatek, and there is no demand for payment in rubles. At the moment, this is what the information we have about our partners and how they would react eventually when they are in our situation to be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u263	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Colleagues, we begin the first round of questions. Is there a question? Mr. Tabutov, come in, you have the floor. I'm just asking you to point out who the question is addressed to.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u264	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Dear Guests! My question is to the Prime Minister. Immediately after the unilateral act of the interruption of supply by the Gazprom in society, an opinion began to be formed, which was mainly based on suggestion and the public may at the moment he is hesitating whether the government has taken the most appropriate measures to address the situation that has arisen by chance. My question to you is this: did the government protect the Bulgarian interest, the interest of Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian industry through the measures taken immediately after the end of the supply? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u265	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Prime Minister, you have the floor for an answer, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u266	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The results are clear.The gas supply did not stop, the prices did not go up, we did not accept the unilateral cancellation of the contract and for a short period we were able to make a ready strategy for alternative supplies so that the Bulgarian consumer, Bulgarian households, Bulgarian businesses do not worry about the amount of gas that enters Bulgaria, and I hope that soon we will confirm not worry about the price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u267	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. From GERB-SDS who will ask a question? Here you are, Mr. Stankov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u268	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! My question is directed at the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, very often energy experts describe energy management as a kind of chess party, perhaps because we need to think a few moves strategically ahead. Unfortunately, in the last few months, we have seen that there is absolutely no move at all, whether it be strategic, in state energy. In this respect, the Commission considers that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. You did not defend the state interest, thus putting the whole country at risk, put Bulgarian citizens on their knees and treat business as if it were not part of the state. It is certainly important that you call both your colleagues from the DANS and the DAR to you, because what have they confirmed today? The colleague from the DANS said: "We continue to receive Russian gas along the same routes. " The colleague from the DAR said that in the end everything that happened could have been avoided if the state did its job faster, because if you cheated from the chess board of other countries that made the necessary moves, and as you can see, the whole of Europe is fulfilling its requirements and still getting gas. The specific question to you is the following:.......... you made the thesis that you released the Executive Director of Bulgargaz.... Nikolay Pavlov and one of the reasons is that he has signed an agreement with the Azerian side for only one third of the quantities under the contract. This agreement, which my colleague Pavlov signed, is valid until the end of June. Will you make a commitment to the Bulgarian citizens and to the MPs that from July 1st, from when this agreement will no longer apply, the state will receive its full quantities under the contract with the Azeri side of the preferential price that is in the contract, which is extremely important so that we can stabilize at some point the economy, or will you lie again, as you lied that on July 1st the gas connection with Greece will work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u269	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Prime Minister, come in, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u270	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You must like to play chess. From the first day we entered the government, we started working for real diversification, which unfortunately had not happened in the last 10 years. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] And we have succeeded because we have made a very clear implementation programme so that I can really answer your question now that this project will be completed physically on 30 June. When will the gas run on it... [[Relations from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov.]] Now, as we may have said more than once in the media, the Azeri gas, in fact, at the moment potentially, if this annex was not signed, could flow through her Messembria. [[Relations from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov.]] Yeah, so we're expecting...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u271	Colleagues, please, not from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u272	We expect the Azeri gas to flow on June 30th, I even hope it will flow earlier. We are currently working in full volume, which is a billion cubic meters. [[Heckling]] Now the only move we didn't make right and I have to admit that maybe we should have taken advice from you is that we didn't betray any puppy. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u273	Thank you, Prime Minister. [[National Representative Zhecho Stankov wants the floor.]] For procedure? Here you go, Mr. Stankov. I hope it's not an answer to... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u274	Mr. Chairman, my request is also a procedure for you. There was a concrete and clear question to the prime minister, which was not answered.. Will we receive from 1 July gas in full volume under the Azeri contract of the price under the contract? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u275	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. I think you have an answer to the question. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Prime Minister, would you like to add something? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u277	Thank you for your supplement to your response. Mr. Anastasov, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister of Energy! My question will be short. The European Union has decided to phase Russian gas by two thirds by the end of 2022, you have also been part of this decision. Since things are now being looked at in a complex way and the orders will be made together, as you understand, and the chairman of the KEWR confirmed it, and therefore the capacities should also be viewed in a complex way for the entire European Union. As far as I am aware, at the present time there have been physibilities of the European Union, in particular the Commission, which takes into account that, unfortunately, only one third of this gas could be phased by the end of the year, and that capacity building simply takes some time for both NG regasification terminals and NG gas liquefaction terminals. Moreover, there is one other thing: that there most contracts are long-term and are already filled by the end of 2023 in most of the market. So my question, Mr. Petkov, is to you: do you know how much availability there is on spot markets for the entire European Union, even more in the ambition to phase from 95% to zero immediately Bulgarian gas? My other question is rather political, it is a question, but it is fully connected: can you guarantee that the LPG gas that Bulgaria would eventually receive or the gas in swap transactions will physically not originate from the Russian Federation? What guarantees will you provide for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u279	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Mr. Minister, if you wish, then you can add something to the Prime Minister's response. Mr. Petkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u280	Thank you. What you asked me is actually a very important issue, because a really large part of the capacities are being booked at the moment, because many of the countries, especially in the European Union, expect a similar fate of Bulgaria's and sign long-term contracts. I can say and this is information from today.. even if you saw, I just walked out of the room and came back that there is a possibility at the moment of the spot market to buy quantities that are sufficient in addition to the Azeri gas for all our consumption for this year. My confirmation is informal for now, but I hope it will be formalized very soon. The quantities come mainly from the States at this time and the question here is whether we can negotiate a price close to Henry Hub's, or we have to rely on TTF, which is the European price, but the possibility is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u281	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Is there anything you'd like to add, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question is inaccurate for several reasons. Firstly, the problem of general supply is linked to the structure of contracts and many specifics of them, as well as to the whole structure of the market. In several EU countries, it is fully open, respectively planning, delivery and so on are extremely specific from a corporate point of view. From the point of view of the spot market, and this is the reason why it is called spot, as it is valid now, for today, within the structure of the contract, of parith and volume, which is valid to today. The planning of the overall supply is a first step in forming such a group, as a common mechanism for the whole of the European Union is difficult to apply, but such is possible for Southeast Europe plus the Western Balkans, and this will happen as a first step the next day, with a large part of you I have the honour and pleasure of meeting in the Energy Commission, and sometimes to have disputes, as the situation is extremely critical and predisposing to tension. From this tribune, I took the liberty of reacting the way I shouldn't have. First of all, Mr. Dobrev's apologies. Secondly, I would like to say that, as so far, any information requested, whether by the opposition or by the ruling majority, the Ministry of Energy will continue to provide it. The aim of this thing is in the most critical period in fact in the last 70 years perhaps for Bulgaria anyone who has an alternative solution, whether for regulation, effective implementation of a mechanism, or for a long-term strategy, is welcome, as there is a good chance that we missed something too. I hope that in the next few months, in which even the European Commission finds it difficult to make the balance that Mr. Anastasov tried to describe, in exchange for a huge amount of Russian gas with alternative routes, is difficult. In this order of thinking everything that is necessary regardless of the partners, structure or political decision is welcome and I hope that together we will be able to do so, because in this case we are really talking about the interests of the Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u283	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From BSP? Here you go, Mr. Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u284	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I listen carefully, I monitor the media and I am interested in monitoring the information coming from the cabinet regarding the long-awaited realization of the project Komotini Stara Zagora. In this regard, or the so-called Greek relationship, I have two questions. My first question or, in particular, to date, is it actually a point of obtaining gas from Azerbaijan as agreed under the treaty? There's an important point that we've been discussing for a long time, but there's still no specific information, and I know that there are agreed penalties of 90 thousand. euros per day. To date, the default should mean about 11 million. Are these money requested from the Bulgarian side and has anything happened at all? My question is to the Minister of Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u285	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Marinov, about the alternative routes the problem with the signed annex is about the quantities Bulgaria can receive from June 30th. The second part of your question about the route and delivery options depends on the regulators of Bulgaria, Greece, the European Union and acceptance of the physical implementation of the route. This will be used if necessary to use an alternative route. The talks with the Azerbaijani side continue for a number of reasons, and I would not like to go into details because the meeting is open. With regard to the compensation imposed, existing under the contract with a Greek contractor, such compensation is charged, there is a contract structure and payment method which, when the route is passed on and, if necessary, the payment of the necessary amounts will be dealt with in their final phase. The main priority ahead of us at the moment is to complete the route as quickly as possible with all necessary physical tests and certificates from the relevant authorities and to have one more route as quickly as possible to enable us to receive natural gas from Azerbaijan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u287	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is such a people? Mrs. Vasileva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! My question, let them decide whether to answer the Minister of Energy, or the Director of Bulgargaz. Has Bulgargaz reserved the terminal's capacity in the Revitus and have any revised direct supplies been made byNG producers?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u289	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Vassileva, in view of the extremely short period of time, first and second, in view of the still existing contract with Whether it can and will happen immediately depends on the particular company. Fast storage of capacity and access to the terminal has not been made for a very simple reason...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u291	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Will there be a question from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Mr. Mirchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, dear Minister of Energy, colleagues! As we have found out from the report of the head of the SANS, the country is in an extremely severe energy crisis, an energy crisis caused by the Russian side indisputably. If the former prime minister were here, he'd probably call it a special gas operation, and that's obvious from something very simple. On 28 April was Germany's maturity on gas payments, but in fact Germany's supplies were not stopped, which means that we are talking about a special approach of Russia towards Bulgaria. Unfortunately, the state in recent years has also not done its job and diversification was really not. There was a pipe coming in from Turkey, coming out of Serbia, cost 3 billion. We all paid for it. The entire capacity is occupied by "Gszprom" and it will never be paid. With her, we'll be at a loss. My specific question to the Minister of Energy or the chief of the "Bulgargaz" who prefers to answer is related to the clauses of our contract with "Gazprom Export." Specifically: is there in the contract with Gazprom Export, what are the provisions for late payment or non-payment in time? What happens and what are the consequences for Bulgaria when it does not pay in time, and has this happened in the last 15 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u293	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Who's gonna answer the question? Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Mirchev, in so far as there is one very important specific, I would like to point out: the payment by the Bulgarian Ministry of Finance to Gazprom Export. In all details, on all specifics of the existing contract was broadcast for April, adopted at the service bank of.. Gazprom Export........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Regarding delays, method of payment, fulfillment of all obligations by Bulgargaz, respectively the Bulgarian side to the "Gazprom Export". There hasn't been any over the years, and so far there hasn't been any. In no way is Bulgargas in violation of the existing contract and it is still valid by the Bulgarian company. In addition, I would like to say that, as soon as the first letter was received, a notice describing the appointment of the President of Russia and the corresponding consequences for All mechanisms showing goodwill and willingness to communicate are respected. Specific questions related to the relevant opinion and the legal risks described under the proposed payment mechanism are asked. From now on on on on current correspondence and specifics on potentially future issues by Gazprom Export. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u295	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yotsov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u296	Dear Mr. Mirchev, yes, there is a delay clause in the contract with Gazprom Export. On the one hand, a corresponding interest rate is charged for the delay, on the other hand, Gazprom Export is reserved in the contract to terminate the gas supply in Bulgaria. In this case, however, it is not about non-payment by the President of the Russian Federation but rather about non-payment by the President of the Russian Federation, that is, the money was paid and returned. They were admitted to the Gazprombank and returned the next day, then we received a letter telling us that after April 1st the payment was only according to the President's Decree.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u297	Thank you, Mr. Yotsov. From rebirth? Here you are, Mrs. Mihailova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Petkov, Mr. Nikolov, in the initial hearing by the services it became clear because the information we received last month through the media is extremely diverse for both us, the MPs and the Bulgarian public, and it was actually extremely positive that we were able to hear adequate information checked by our services. That is to say, it has finally turned out that we are currently working for a common European agreement. At the moment it is not available, there is no such event. There are still countries supplying Russian gas that have not decided exactly how they will make payments. The sanctions do not affect private companies that can also deliver this particular type of gas. It became clear that Hungary would continue with these supplies. Greece takes a compromise position in which it is still communicating with "Gszprom" and Slovakia, too, so as not to repeat and not to list. In this regard, it is slightly lost in the sense that our government is constantly pointing out about commitments about how we should be united and how we should make decisions for which we are almost not the only ones who have such an opportunity not to be, and now it turns out that is not exactly the case. As we can see, other countries are dealing with their own national interest, we are dealing with European interests and we are making decisions that sound more ideological than economic. In this regard, since the other very diverse thing and message that we have been listening to over the last month was how will these decisions, which are currently taking the Bulgarian government with regard to gas prices for consumers, what will be the increase? Because in time, different percentages have been commented. Perhaps at the moment you already have this calculation, how much will increase the price. And finally, are we communicating with Gazprom? Do we still have any communication? Does it flow in writing or in any other way, or have we completely ended any relationship and completely broken diplomacy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u299	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Mihailova, as I have already mentioned, the contract is still valid on the part of Bulgargaz. I'm starting backwards. Communication, of course, is continuing. Either way, when you have a business relationship with a counterparty, communication cannot and must not stop. One-sided, especially. About the economics of the solution. Like a few weeks ago, when I was asked if we had a technical opportunity to pay in Russian rubles, the answer was yes. Bulgaria can keep payments in a different currency if necessary, whatever it is Russian, US, European, Bulgarian lev. The specific currency is not the problem in the requested mechanism. The problem is the mechanism as such. The mechanism as such describes the granting of a right to a third party which is a bank. By presumption of any bank where it is a financial intermediary, it should have a neutral position. It should not be entitled to represent a first, second or third party to a particular transaction. When the funds are paid in the first account, the right to dispose of these funds is transferred to the Gazprombank. More disturbing in the specific mechanism is that the loss of control over the funds is not equal to recognition for the payment made, therefore this would mean that "Bulgargaz" upon consent to the implementation of such a mechanism loses the right to use the funds and there is no proof of the payment made. Regarding the last payment made by Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) to Gazprom Export (Bulgargaz) he has all the data and bank records showing that the funds were received from the other side. Regarding the financial logic for non-acceptance of the mechanism. Given that there is no clarity on the exchange rate to be applied on the specific exchange indicated in the mechanism, the same questions are again asked to the Gazprom Export and there is no answer. According to the underlying access data of the specific exchange, the adoption of a similar mechanism for its description, which means that it becomes an integral part of the contract, means a direct increase in the quantities received from .Gazprom Export, by 11 to 17%. This is basic data and does not appear in that letter. Accordingly, direct consent from the Bulgarian company would say that the prices, which are under the long-term contract, respectively the long-term formula, are invalid. About the talks about whether and which countries and their method of payment are made in Russian rubles, or whether they are thought of. The only countries that manage state assets in the form of natural gas, respectively buying from Russia, are currently Bulgaria and Poland. To the other countries, yes, firstly, there is a specific production of electricity and a much more severe dependence than the Bulgarian electricity market, therefore it is more difficult for them to decide, but this does not mean that they have decided to pay in Russian rubles. The European Commission's Sanction clearly states that payment in rubles is a violation of the common European mechanism. There is no state-owned company that has currently made a payment in Russian rubles. And yes, you are right, Hungary pointed out that it would accept the mechanism, but their maturity of payment, that is, next payment date to In the last European Commission meeting held the other day, the position is common that payment on the proposed unilateral mechanism is not acceptable. About the prices. "Bulgargaz" still explores all possible scenarios and delivery mechanisms in May and will soon send the relevant request to the KEWRC. Accordingly, the KEWRC will have all possible mechanisms as an independent body to accept it or not. Therefore, you will receive the relevant information as soon as all decisions are in place, and at government level all possible mechanisms for general supply and potential compensation at higher prices, if any, are discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u301	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues, we are about to begin the second round of questions. Will there be a question? Here you are, Mr. Manev. You have the floor. [[Noise and lines in GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Nankov, Mr. Terziyski, please, a little quieter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Petkov, Mr. Nikolov! My question is for both of you, who will give a better answer. What aims to create the Regional Coordination Centre in Sofia? Which countries will participate in its activities, and what results can we expect from it in relation to supply prices, natural gas and electricity supply prices? Has a similar centre in the European Union been established so far, even more with its headquarters in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u303	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u304	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for asking. In fact, starting on 5 May, for the first time the European Commission has made such a working group. Its function will be not only to gather the region's energy ministers, but to actually work continuously to discover the best strategic options for the whole region. What do I mean? If each of the parties buys separately, the quantities are relatively small. We know that Bulgaria will need about 2 billion cubic meters, for Romania around 3, for Northern Macedonia probably less and really everyone, if it buys alone in this region, will not be able to reach a good price for liquefied gas. But if we unite together, and even more so, if we use the capacity of the Trans-Balkan Stream, only from south to north, not north to south, it's possible that the quantities we buy together are in times more. That would deliver a few things. First, the entire region's energy security. Secondly, reaching relatively lower prices, including optimization of different energy sources. For example, in Greece, much of the electricity is produced by gas. If we export electricity to Greece, they can release gas capacity, so this regional optimization should lead to more competitive prices, to better security, and for the first time Bulgaria is actually a leader in this. The countries to participate include Italy, Romania, Greece, Turkey, northern Macedonia, Serbia, Ukraine and Azerbaijan. So tomorrow you will see all these energy ministers coming to Sofia and leaving their employees and some of their teams constantly in Sofia for this optimization. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u305	Thank you, Prime Minister. Does GERB-SDS have a question? You have the floor, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Prime Minister, my question is for you. Just before I ask my question, I would like to start with one of your answers to a question from colleague Zhecho Stankov. You have allowed yourself to say an untruth about the fact that in the last ten years nothing has been done in relation to diversification and you are starting all processes in this area. And the other thing you did was to show sarcasm related to puppies and similar other comparisons that you made. I want to tell you that we will prepare a manual for you, and as soon as possible...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u307	Mrs. Petkova!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u308	...for all actions of the government of GERB for diversification. We will illustrate, we have all the information. [[(Replies from]] With all the information about all the interconnectors we have made, including the first from Romania from which you can import a billion and a half, the transit that is for Turkey, through which you can import 15 billion. Cube. meters of gas. This happened thanks to the new compressors that we put in and which are reversible.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u309	Mrs. Petkova, I'm asking you a question. Relationships are a little late.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u310	It has something to do with the matter, Mr. Chairman. Soon we will prepare a manual so that you can really read and see exactly what this is about, because these lies and this mantra, which you keep repeating, are getting tired of. I think the kids have already figured out that what you're saying doesn't answer the truth at all. If that were not the case, there was no place for your natural gas intermediary to import through Greece today. I'm just asking you not to tell any more lies like that. So my question, Mr. Prime Minister, is to you and it is related to some of your media appearances of you and Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev. In the framework of these media appearances you were asked whether it was reserved capacity by Bulgaria, understanding the state-owned company Bulgargas, whose main function is this. He's a trader and his job is to reserve capacity. Then you explained that, yes, such a capacity is reserved, but a simple check in the system shows that the company MET did not book any natural gas molecule for Bulgaria, and this reserve of capacity was carried out by the company MET. Since when, dear Prime Minister, are we talking about the company MET and the state company Bulgargaz. Yes, as we booked, as a whole? True, the current CEO of Bulgargaz is yesterday's CEO of MET company, but I think that such re-covering of functions is very, very disturbing. That's my question. The MET company is currently, honourable Members, if you do not know, supplying us with Russian gas again, but 30% higher. So this is what you did, and that explains the speed with which you completed all the actions...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u311	The weather, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u312	...and why you didn't come to Parliament to inform us what was going on. If you had a clear conscience, you would have come here and asked for the support of the Bulgarian Parliament. [[(Reply from "We continue the Change": Is that a statement or a question?]] It's a question. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u313	Here you are, Prime Minister. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u314	Thanks for asking. I never said from this tribune that it all started with us. It's not like that. Here, I'm making it very clear that's not true. The only criticism that we are constantly expressing is that when there are 3 billion to spend, for gas connections, whether Turkish flow was the biggest priority for Bulgaria, and were Serbian and Hungarian supplies really more important than the Greek link that could diversify us, and why, within the deadlines when Turkish flow was made, could not Greek flow be made? That's always been the criticism. And when we talk about 3 billion, that's 3 billion of taxpayers' money. We don't have them at the moment, and we don't have a serious diversification capacity. From that point of view, that was my comment before that. In relation to the particular question about the trader, I will actually give the floor, because it is still at the level of the Ministry of Economy and Bulgargaz. To get an exact answer from the Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u315	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Once you have the answer, Mrs. Petkova, I will give you the opportunity for a procedure. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Petkova, ladies and gentlemen! Exactly what you call intermediaries are generally traders, no, I will not mention the total size of the market in Europe and how open it is and how closed it is and what part of it passes through state companies. I will say something that we played a little bit with to see what happened under your strict supervision, namely from November 2019, December 2019, January 2020, February 2020. I would like to emphasise something very important, in these four months only for the four months, the long-term contracts of Azerbaijan, i.e................................. and the......................................... and the Gazprom Export................................................................................................................................................................. In those four months alone, the company, then, bought 2 million. 66,000. Megawatt hours of corporate entities. Respect for them will be shown and will not mention them, nor will the structure and effects of the particular company. About MET and whether it's a middleman and so on. MET is a trader with clear financial results, with clear management, governance structure and so on. There is no Russian gas, there is liquefied gas, which has been obtained and will be received from 18 May on in Bulgaria. Regarding the clearly made efforts over the last 10 years for diversification. The level of dependence in the Bulgarian energy beyond gas supplies, which, as you are clear, for a number of reasons at the time by Gazprom Export was more than 90% absolutely similar. The way to create difficulties in relevant projects that lead to diversification, such as crossing dams that are extremely technical solutions, and so on, is evident elsewhere. For example, the diversification of nuclear fuel at our nuclear power plant, which would make Bulgaria significantly more independent in the current situation. Dear Mrs. Petkova, as with the supply of natural gas, you can see the mentality when it comes to a supplier from the east, and a supplier who provides multiple alternatives is also visible at all possible levels, including technological solutions in existing state enterprises and so on. The total amount of financial benefits in the last 10 years, specifically compared to external companies, that is to say, Bulgarian contractors are being removed and external companies are being placed, east, I will not mention directly Russia, say east to Western companies, is also equal to the ratio of what we have seen in natural gas, unfortunately. And I say it, unfortunately, as a Bulgarian and not in his current administrative role. About management, I'm just gonna say one thing. All current companies that are under the hat of the Bulgarian Energy Holding are managed by people with the required capacity back in their time, and when one person is accused of working in a company that trades natural gas, and now does it for the benefit of the state and after you drop n in number of charges especially on March 3rd at the National Holiday, who know how soiled they are and how baseless they are, I will only say that we will not take the example that was back in time, and when it was necessary for a person who sold chocolates to start dealing natural gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u317	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for procedure, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u318	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. Although the prime minister of the country speaks out of this tribune when speaking things that do not correspond to the truth, a note should be made. I would just like to point this out, my dear Prime Minister, that firstly, the interconnector Greece is not being built for 12 years. It's one of the big lies you're trying to instill on people. The Interconnector Greece is being built from October 2019. Mr. Nikolov next to you must have been familiar with the contracts. Let him at least brib you and tell you how long this project has been being built. First, in order for the interconnector to become Greece, Bulgaria had to become ready two infrastructure projects....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u319	Mrs. Petkova, I think we understand the procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u320	They became ready in November 2019 and December...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u321	Mrs. Petkova, for the second time...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u322	...and for the Balkan Stream, not a single dollar of taxpayers' money has been spent. The value of the project is 2 billion. $584 million, including 300 million for American compressors at the two compressor stations...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u323	Mrs. Petkova, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u324	"Rassovo" and "Nova Provadia" So none of the money belongs to Bulgartransgaz. The CEO is here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u325	I'll take your word for it, Mrs. Petkova. [[(The National Representative Temenuzhka Petkova continues to speak with microphones off. (Applause)]] Mrs. Petkova, you know you've broken the rules. You had the opportunity to say these things within the framework of the attitude, it is neither the place nor the time. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Mr. Anastasov, come in. [[Reply.]] Excuse me? [[Noise.]] Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Prime Minister Petkov! Since everything is happening to you for the first time or for the first time, I'll allow myself to remind you of William Isaac Thomas' theorem, I'm sure he's a familiar, famous Beavior. It is very short and very simple: If a person defines the situation as real, then the consequences of the situation are also real. You are talking about general supplies at European Union level. By the way, this topic is quite old, we from DPS have already defended it, not from another point of view, but not only at a price, from a security of supply point of view, which, by the way, was the main focus, as it could not be determined at that time which option would be more profitable for Bulgaria, but certainly from a security of supply point of view this was the better one. Since you yourself in your answers are a little contradictory, I want you to tell me clearly now, are we going to make gas orders for the replacement capacity ourselves, or together with the other European Union member states, Mr Prime Minister? Prime Minister, we've heard two conflicting informants in this direction. Also how is filling the gas storage facility in Chiren going, and what kind of natural gas do you fill it with, if that's the case? Prime Minister, my question is explicit to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u327	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u328	Thanks for asking. You seem to have appreciated that I can answer specifically on these subjects. Thank you for the evaluation, but in fact, when it comes to gas stations, I will give the floor to the Minister of Energy because it is within his power. What you asked me is a good question. In principle, it is much better at this time to have gas buying at European level.. We are getting much stronger and the chance to negotiate better prices is much greater. However, this process takes time, and we, as you know, must now find alternative sources. So the two processes, as far as you don't think it's logical, go at the same time. On the one hand, there are currently negotiated quantities that can bring the gas that we need in the near future, on the other hand, we are an active country and we will be a centre in Sofia on this topic, for a total purchase for the region and for Europe. So the two things are going at the same time, but we cannot afford to just wait for the final result of the European purchases, because we need to make sure that our national security is covered with enough gas right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u329	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Anastasov! If I may, honourable Members, just step back on Chiren, as it is important. After receiving on 1 April, that is to say, the first letter from "Gazprom Export" that it is likely that their President Putin's decree would lead to a drastic change in the contractual relationship with "Bulgargaz", respectively with the corresponding quantities and effects for Bulgaria and with a significant increase in this risk, respectively the risk of delivering supplies to all customers and households, especially in the case of a still ending heating season, is issued an order not to be taken by Chiren. Also in this order it is stated that a strategic reserve should be purchased by the Bulgarian authorities, which should be used for a long enough time, respectively, to secure households and businesses for at least another 30 days ahead. Even in the event of systematic risk and restriction of submission, this would and would ensure that all systematic companies, including the refinery, operate normally, which is extremely important from an economic point of view. Regarding the current pressures and the procedure under such a dependent on the type of gas that is produced, and naturally, and its volume in the next few months, and with the efforts undertaken by both the Bulgarians and the Bulgarians, depending on the alternative supplies, including not only the Azeri side, as they are also working to increase the capacity towards Bulgaria, the same will be damaged on the relevant schedule in Chiren. Regarding your question of general supplies, given that the meeting in Sofia tomorrow is a first step, there is a description of the general delivery mechanism itself, whether they will be a specific country, whether they will comply with the temporaryity of existing contracts for the specific countries or not. However, it is important to note that the current so-called Task Force, or working group, in Bulgaria is a pilot project and part of this common platform for natural gas trading, respectively, beyond the quantities that by their volume should realise a lower price, are aimed at clearly planning and balancing the system, as consumption profiles, respectively, specifics and synergies between different countries, can be significantly more successful and much higher than at present. In case it's not deep enough... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The Executive Director of Bulgartransgaz is well, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u331	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're moving on to a BSP question. Is there one? I won't. Do you have a second question? No. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Panev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, honourable ministers, Prime Minister! It is clear that we are in an extremely complicated situation, perhaps a year that has nothing to do with the other years at least on the gas markets in Europe. It is also clear that Bulgaria is in a particular position on the one hand to provide the necessary quantities for Bulgarian consumers, and fortunately for us, the quantities for Bulgaria are currently not particularly large three, three and a half billion cubic meters per year should not be a serious problem for our government. However, our responsibility is much greater, and it is to help secure supplies in the European Union in general this year, as far as we have old transmission networks and a new one that will be built, hopefully, by the middle of the year. My question is: what is Bulgaria's readiness to take part in the solution of the entire gas problem throughout Europe and not just for Bulgaria, and what actions are being taken in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u333	Thank you, Mr. Panev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Panev, the description of the situation as difficult is quite an understatement. In fact, the criticality of the situation is beyond all borders, even if we forget, as far as possible, the war at the moment, the results purely economic for Europe are extremely severe. For comparison, the correlation between the so-called TTF, i.e. the supply of natural gas in Europe, and Henry Hub, the main index in the United States, is at its lowest levels in history, means that there is no connection anymore for the price of natural gas in different places in the world, first. Secondly, it shows the clear dependence of the entire energy map in Europe on a single supplier. About the responsibility of Bulgaria. Bulgaria is the first country in the European Union to spread the possibilities for a common capacity mechanism according to the existing infrastructure, the terminals in Greece, the potentially used terminals in Turkey, the full use of the South Gas Corridor from the Caspian region, alternative supplies, potential swap transactions with countries that are also supplied through NG terminals, including not only Italy, potentially Croatia, and so on. With these documents we tried to show where and how Bulgaria can stand on the common map regionally in Southeast Europe and including the Western Balkans. The steps that have been taken in the future. Tomorrow's meeting of all energy ministers in the region includes several panels, some of which discuss the common energy mix, the energy balance and the resources needed to produce electricity, with one aim.. to identify the opportunities for change and rapid reduction of natural gas dependence, specifically supplied by Russia, from one point of view. On the second, all mechanisms and measures related to energy efficiency will be discussed so that the corresponding amount of electricity consumed falls. Thirdly, naturally, the fastest solution examined on the infrastructure map, as well as general supply in greater volume for the whole of Europe. Fourth, last but not least, absolutely all possible regulatory mechanisms will be examined to alleviate all consumers, including not only business, and individual consumers, for building renewable energy capacities, including heating and hot water. In this way, logically, hopefully and sustainablely, common regional measures will be taken to maximise natural gas consumption, thus reducing Russia's dependence. Last but not least, the fact that in Bulgaria, in Sofia, all regional ministers gather, clearly shows the role of Sofia in this process. Free data sharing and clear drawing of synergies enables Bulgaria to continue to balance the entire region not only in the form of electricity, potentially and when negotiating common natural gas supplies. Finally, something that is already receiving an almost complete degree of realization, insofar as the Mariska Basin, as well as the Mini Maritsa East, are extremely critical, and for Bulgaria is already a fact, but are also important for the region, as the emergency situations in some of our neighbouring countries have enabled Mini Maritsa East to deliver potential coal for neighbouring countries as well. So as far as we have the opportunity and capacity of all countries, whether they are in the European Union or not, we will continue to help and continue to seek solutions together with them, so that dependence on unsustainable and impossible to plan over the long term quote partners can be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u335	Thank you for your answer, Minister. The last question from the Parliamentary Group of Revival Mr. Ganev, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u336	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Petkov, Mr. Nikolov! Before I ask my question, I would like to point out that the mixed information that is being heard by the government continues today. Just a few minutes ago we heard the Minister of Energy from this tribune said there was an order that stopped the use of Chiren, as the quantities were extremely small. Yes, but today, in one of the Bulgarian-language American media, more precisely "Capital" the minister of finance says that the gas supply continues. I guess he's not familiar or inadvertently misleading in his interview all those who read this Bulgarian-language American media. In this regard, however, my question is in the following direction. They are rather to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Energy. I am interested in the Minister of Energy, since we are currently struggling to secure the supply of consumption that we have in the country, and to save it from remaining whole businesses, whole sectors without gas, how are we going to proceed and what are we going to do when our warehouse is empty and that in just five months a winter season is coming? I just don't know if, what direction and how the government is going to act, because five months from now, if we fight and push, things are totally different in five months. Regarding my question to the Prime Minister. Mr. Petkov, two weeks ago from this tribune of parliamentary control, Minister Nikolov, on a question from one of the MPs of ARCHIVER is working and is negotiating with the Russian side about a new gas supply contract, he said that no, no such talks are being held and no, no, no such talks will be held. [[the President signals that time has run out]] But the further question to him: what will be the prices at which we will import gas, he clarified that there are much more important things than prices at the moment of gas, as military actions are being conducted. My question to you is as follows: Will you, as Prime Minister, defend this policy, which the Minister of Energy said from this tribune, because we of ARGUING believe that the interests of business in Bulgaria and Bulgarian national interests are before the Community interests in the European Union, before the interests of any other business or country not only in Europe, but also in the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u337	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. But I'm making it clear that you have the right to ask one question, you asked two. Which of the two questions do you want answered, Mr. Ganev? Who are you prioritizing? Mr. Secretary, are you going to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Ganev, I hope that in view of the late hour and the long day I have managed to remember everything. If we need to, then we can continue this conversation without a problem. Regarding the winter season and planning again, I would like to say that the Bulgarian energy holding company, the Bulgarian energy holding company and all the structures have behaved entirely corporately and in harmony with existing legal relations, which are respectively by Swiss rule. As far as a country can respect its treaty, Bulgargaz has done so. Accordingly, the request to unilaterally change a contract means that any clause unilaterally can be changed at any time. If we forget that this is about Gazprom Export, I would really love for you to share your position on a company that is not east of us and makes such claims. How would we react if someone directly wants to increase the price through indirect costs, such as those for conversion, and would that be acceptable to your parliamentary group? About the prices. I didn't say prices weren't important, on the contrary. Therefore, several times we stress the effect of the received offer purely price, financial and corporate to the particular company. And yes, during the war, the most unwise thing is to conclude long-term contracts, as I have previously answered one of the specific questions, the price at which natural gas is currently supplied in Europe, has nothing to do with the price of producing the same resource in Russia, nor does it have anything to do with the price of natural gas at any particular point, or in particular in the United States, and I only say this because they are one of the largest producers of liquefied gas and shale gas. Finally. As far as the delivery mechanisms for natural gas or all other alternative routes, including the Caspian region and existing terminals in Turkey and Greece, will allow us to continue the injection in Chiren at the same pace as previously planned. Again and for the last time, I will say that Bulgargaz is in possession of an existing contract with Gazprom Export. The decision to comply with all the clauses is bilateral and I hope that the same interest, especially on your part, will be addressed to the other side on the way to respect the relations with and with Bulgaria, and to the related legal entities under the hat of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u339	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues, we're moving on to expression of attitude. We're continuing the Change. Mr. Ribarsky. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u340	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! From today's hearing, we can make the following findings: In violation of the arrangements between the Bulgargaz and the Gazprom Export and after an attempt to unilaterally amend the contract by the Gazprom Export, natural gas supplies to Bulgaria have been drained. The notification of this was sent one day before the interruption of supply. This puts the public supplier in a situation that requires immediate response to ensure gas supplies. This requires the purchase of quantities currently available from suppliers that can provide long-term supplies for these volumes. Ask about the possibility of such supplies needed to satisfy consumption are addressed to 12 active traders on the market in Bulgaria. 8 offers were selected from three suppliers and the criterion is the lowest price. The ranking of the tenders was carried out under the terms of the "Bulgargas" and until the necessary quantities were provided in order to meet the binding requests submitted by Bulgarian customers for May 2022. As regards the claims that intermediaries are being used, it should be pointed out that the "Bulgargas" provides alternative quantities through suppliers companies, as is the "Gazprom Export". It is established international practice that producers are in separate companies from suppliers and production and supply activities to be clearly distinguished. In addition, a unilateral amendment of contractual clauses by Gazprom Export is a null and void arrangement due to a lack of agreement by both parties. At the same time as this attempt to make a unilateral change, Gazprom Export does not terminate the contract, that is, it is still in force, but the supplier does not deliver, which violates a contract to which Bulgaria is an orderly country. This leads to a claim of lost benefits and real damage incurred, expressed in a possible increased price for the supply of natural gas. Paying in rubles for Russian gas meets a clear disagreement across the European Union and a coordinated response to the situation is still being sought. I guess tomorrow is the first step towards addressing this problem through a coordinated approach. The proposed payment mechanism implies real risks to the Bulgarian country by unilateral and uncontrolled suspension of supply without providing for the appropriate possibility of seeking responsibility from the Russian supplier. The new method of payment is set as a process that includes control over the financial resources of the Bulgargaz. The new method of payment is to be controlled by a financial institution related to the Gazprom Export and not by an independent third party. Security of supply is a major objective to be achieved by real diversification of supply and the full elimination of the possibility of abuse of a dominant position. Today, we can clearly state that the diversification policy carried out over the past years has been ineffective and even misleading. For example, as early as 2009 when the natural gas was stopped by the former Prime Minister Boyko Borisov said that Bulgaria should diversify its sources. In 2021, when nearly 3 billion. lv. from taxpayers' money was built Balkan Stream, it was said that Bulgaria is 100% energy independent and no one can stop the tap or twist hands. Understanding about the gas diversification of previous governance has brought us before the EU's highest dependence on more than 90% of all natural gas to be imported by Gazprom Export.I say a year ago, the monopoly importer has been disproved for 24 hours and has put us in an emergency situation. In the current aggravated international environment, the current Bulgarian government must again compensate for past losses and within days and weeks to achieve goals that have been neglected for years. The preparation for this situation, however, began in the winter months and only the full readiness of all responsible institutions and individuals saves Bulgarian citizens and consumers from a real threat of disruption of supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u341	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS Mr. Dobrev, will you express your attitude? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u342	Thank you. Honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister! The election campaign is over and I want to simply explain to you some things that you should know. You do not need the Greek connection to import gas from Greece, and this is proven in the last five days. I do not know why you focused so much on this Greek connection, given that its goal is to expand the possibilities for transit of gas through Bulgaria. It is not, so to speak, lifesaving to deliver gas to Bulgaria, provided that we can import far greater quantities than the Tower and this happens in the last days or at least you claim it is happening. Secondly, you are a minister of 12 May last year with a little interruption, in one week it will be exactly one year. So you have just as much time as Balkan Stream was built, but we don't see the Greek connection being built. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS, lines and laughter from]] And believe me, on July 1st, there will be no gas flowing on this connection. I doubt it'll flow on September 1st, but I'll keep my fingers crossed: I hope it flows! However, you said for the record that from 1 July Bulgaria will receive the entire 1 billion. Cuban gas from Azerbaijan at the low price agreed in the contract. We'll be following him, we've even taken out our shorthand so we can quote it to you on July 1st. There's something else I'd like to tell you in my regard. In fact, I listened carefully to everyone, at least all the exhibitions at the beginning. The only one who told the truth, I would even tell the whole truth, is the head of the NSA, for which I congratulate him. He said the gas is Russian, only it goes through middlemen and it's more expensive. That's the truth, and I can prove it. Even if you want, I'll leave you the data I have. They are, by the way, public and anyone can take them off the Internet. How can we prove that the gas is Russian? Well, seeing how much gas from Russia enters Bulgaria, how much gas comes out of Bulgaria and will be whether the gas is Russian or not! We know how much our consumption is. Here we take the entrance of Bulgaria, the Balkan Stream, the Turkish Stream, as you like to call it. Before the gas crisis, 280 thousand. Megawatt hours a day before the crisis, before the gas stops us, and when the gas stops us, we're expected to import from Greece, right? So, the quantities coming from the Gszprom must decrease with our consumption. It's 60,000. megawatt hour is what you lack, and look what's happening! Out of 280,000. Megawatt hour, it goes up to 320.. 330 thousand. Megawatt hour, i.e. at the entrance of the Russian gas is increasing. After all, that's not evidence. We need to see where this gas is going! Because it can go to Serbia and Hungary. Let's say, there is colder, they consume more than our 60 thousand and another 50 thousand on top, and it is very unlikely, but we still have to look at all the hypotheses. And we look at the exit of the Tower how far it goes to Greece. In Greece before the crisis or before we were gas-free, 40,000 went. megawatt hour. As soon as we're out of gas, all of a sudden, we're going to Greece at 105,000. megawatt hour. That's 65 grand. more than 60 thousand megawatts enter Greece. more than 60 thousand comes out of Greece. That's still not 100% evidence. However, we need to see in trade exchanges what comes back from Greece, because it may suddenly have become minus 50 in Greece and they consume 60 thousand. Megawatt hour's more. And here we look at what comes back, the third tab. [[Shows it.]] Before the crisis, 12 thousand had returned. Megawatt hour, May 1 and 2 were back 92.. 94 thousand. megawatt hour. [[GERB-SDS.]] In other words, Russia's gas enters through Megawatt hour, and the same 60,000. megawatthsa return to Bulgaria However, notice, they do not return 75 euros each, as was our price with the Russians on 1 May, but they return from your favorite trader MET and to the director of the former employer, 102 euros and from DEPA, just below 100 euros, i.e. 30 euros more expensive Russian gas, but 30 euros more expensive. And what does it turn out to be? We buy the same gas, only at a higher price, because of the intermediaries who charge this price. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS, lines from]] And the last thing I want to say to you, and I'm asking you to listen, even though I'm out of time, is that with my colleague Rado Cholakov on the grounds of art. 205 of the PPC will issue a signal to the Ministry of Interior, DGBOP and DANS, because the head of the DANS gives us confidence as a person who does his job, that the MET sells to Bulgargaz and to 102 euros and at the same time the same company buys from Bulgargaz to 80 euros or about 80 euros on the Gas Release Program. I mean, we're gonna send that signal again, on the grounds of art. 205 of the PPC to be checked by the competent authorities. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u343	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Who's gonna give an opinion from the DSS, colleagues? Mr. Atalay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u344	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, dear Minister! However, there is another one missing who is dealing with the energy sector - Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u345	Thank God!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u346	I don't know if it's a thank-you or not, but today you really don't have the serious answers to these questions that Mr. Delyan Dobrev asked him. He's probably in the loop because he's been dealing with gas supplies lately. Dear Prime Minister, I'm going out on this stage with the best feelings. We are not that opposition to look for reasons how and in what way to make our prime minister humiliated, but the opposite. We ask ourselves the question in recent months: why didn't you, Prime Minister, make an action plan for an emergency? Why didn't you create a crisis headquarters to deal with the supplies of raw materials in Bulgaria? You know and are aware that the war that began in Ukraine will eventually lead us to these deadlocks. Why is there no reserve capacity yet? Because today you are providing day-to-day, day-to-day, as the KEWRC chairman said just now that on the electricity exchange we receive and buy the electricity for the day-to-day. You are now a day ahead providing the capacity, you cannot provide the ships concerned, even when the entire European Union has not been decided to stop obtaining Russian gas. Imagine a situation like this. Germany, which receives 40% Russian gas, and all other countries that receive about 150 billion... the shortage will be 100 billion. Aren't these 100 billion European countries' capacity to book them faster than we do? Is there, and I'm telling you, there's a good chance that we don't have a gas supply capacity, even though we're going to have diversified roads, diversified sources? Do you know what is needed in energy, Prime Minister? The minister next to you knows! We need security, we need long-term contracts, we need business to deliver gas to calculate the price of gas on their production so that you can stop inflation. Mr. Asen Vassilev is very serious about this part. We need and have offered you serious legislative changes, amendments to the Energy Act, so that you can provide funds to support business, elderly homes. But you're going to leave us without gas! Imagine the other situation. On April 1st you are warned that they will stop the gas, on April 18th you are already looking for gas, but you are not going through the market! Why didn't you go through the stock exchange? What have you been waiting for until the last day of April 1st when you have a warning that, on one side or because of failure to comply with the requirements of the other party, you have to convert dollars into the same bank where you say it is a unilateral violation? And now the director of Bulgargaz knows very well, the colleague knows that tomorrow can the Russian side open the pipe and tell you that we deliver you? It's okay! We've provided gas with your ships so far. You say you have ships for the rest of the year. If we don't buy Russian gas, you know by the contract that if we don't buy, we have to pay? You know these conditions? Prime Minister, the country's energy situation is getting worse every day. People don't have security, so we don't trust you. When politicians do not trust, this means that you do not fulfill the obligations for which you have won the elections and are committed to this job. I was wondering the other day what you were doing at the first dig of Alexandroupolis when you knew, and the Minister of Energy knew very well that there would be a pipe and a crane. And what did you see there? It's nothing. You know very well, it's good... I'll be done in a minute. You know very well that now the stopped Russian gas is at a higher price and at a higher price we get Russian gas again. You know very well that the situation when we are stopped and joined, and we did not want a derogation like Hungarians and Slovenia to stop the oil if we also accept a solution to stop the oil, Mr. Prime Minister, I do not want to be in your place. Please commit to energy very seriously. Clear from there those people who create a bad image for you, and take on a very serious institution, create an emergency plan, create the relevant institutions, take over the relevant organizations, supply the raw materials in Bulgaria, so that the business can be calm, able to produce, not to have inflation, so that it does not happen in the near time and elections. Because you must be convinced that we don't want to go to elections, because you will lose. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u347	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Will the BSP have an expression of attitude? There is such a people? From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u348	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I'll start with the big picture. Why was the gas stopped from Russia? For a very clear and specific purpose: destabilization of the situation in Bulgaria, division of the common European position. That's what I'm talking about! Those of you who create hysterical feelings and here explain how we are in a very difficult situation and strengthen these fears actually comes into Moscow's plan, which is a very big mistake. That is why we from "Democratic Bulgaria" ask you to seek solutions and offer solutions rather than create absolutely unnecessary fears. Yes, the situation is difficult, but the question is what can be done, and I heard from you rather unwarranted fears that go through moments of hysteria. When the cabinet was set up, Prime Minister, do you remember what we told you from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? One of the first things was: the gas connection with Greece urgently needs to be completed, and that is why you heard us, and the necessary action has been taken. We said the same thing to the previous governments, and they only promised us that this is a fact. However, there is one question that deserves and needs to be explained further because part of the plenary says to you: but why not accept Moscow's conditions for payment in rubles? It's not really about a technical operation. From what we've learned from the words of all the guests today, it's about something else. It requires a change of contract, an annex to the contract is requested, and there is a currency risk, colleagues, if you don't understand. Currency risk means the following thing: if the ruble rises, the payments increase. That's how I understood it, Mr. Secretary and Mr. Prime Minister. If that's the case, who's gonna sign this thing, people? It's no coincidence that no one has signed it so far. Do you know what open currency risk means? This means that payments can grow without a ceiling. This is what this is about, colleagues, so only the contract can be in dollars, but when they make you open two accounts and the question is: what is the currency of the transaction and the payment and if they change your contract, the currency risk appears and becomes very big. What can be done from now on? [[Noise and lines.]] By the way, it was fair to say, if there are any who say: to accept Moscow's request. Then you will tell yourself directly because I see that something is convincing me and then you will say: accept it. I didn't hear that from you, did I? So since we didn't hear it, there's no need for you to amplify me right now, because the risks are a fact. By the way, today with a written question I asked you, Mr. Minister, the legal opinion that describes these risks in changing contracts and accepting payment in rubles, which you requested from an international company. In our opinion, it should be public and we should all have it. What can be done from now on? There is a huge, incredible potential for the European Commission to start buying gas as a huge consumer. We asked for it in 2017, but we never received a response to this proposal from us five years ago, then there was another government, but now there is a huge opportunity in this. The problem is, knowing the European Commission, yes, they act slowly, often bureaucratically on such issues, and the task of the Bulgarian government is to chase them away and another month of May these procedures will be activated. We're talking about prices. Here is the potential for better prices in this situation. We must chase them and this must happen because half of the European Union should be involved in such transactions, even if only the countries of Eastern and South East Europe are involved in the Balkan countries to participate, buying larger quantities means more favourable prices. This is the measure that must happen urgently, and we must insist in every way that this should happen. Otherwise, it is worth considering all energy efficiency measures this year to be implemented, to work on them in order to reduce fuel consumption, electricity consumption and in general an energy component. It is in the Recovery Plan and this is a measure that we should implement in full capacity this year. Finally, in order not to reschedule the time, fellow Members, I call you for the following thing, and we from................... don't enter into Moscow's plan, do not create unnecessary and unnecessary hysteria, but let whoever has proposals and solutions make them so that we can get out of this difficult situation. Thank you. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u349	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. And there was an attitude of rebirth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u350	Dear Mr. Chairman! We did not get a specific answer to the question whether the decisions that are currently being taken in terms of gas supplies and at all of all the negotiations that are being held are ideological or economic, but let us say that each of us can make our conclusion, even though there was no specific answer to this question. We have to say that in addition to the gas crisis, we are currently in a serious communication crisis, a crisis that is likely to reflect on the prices of finished products more than the price of gas itself, and what is really happening as supplies, because literally every day we hear mixed information from ministers in the Council of Ministers. Today, on several occasions this thing happened from this tribune In terms of prices. In his reply to me, Mr. Nikolov, when I asked Eventually, after giving a proposal for what they are and how these prices will rise, I conclude that they will rise, he mentioned compensatory mechanisms similar to those we had with electricity. That means he's expecting a promotion after all. This was said until a few weeks ago, until a few days ago, when representatives of the ruling coalition said a few days ago that we might expect prices to fall. Including yesterday on the national air, one of the coalition officials said prices would definitely fall, and today the Minister of Energy says: we are still exploring what will happen to these prices and thinking of compensatory mechanisms, which means they will rise. In this situation and because we want to be really constructive and to be in support, and not to the detriment, we do not want to create chaos and in no way want things to happen to our population and to our business in Bulgaria, we have tabled a draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission which will deal with the facts and circumstances regarding all contracts and agreements that are concluded for gas supplies currently related to the crisis and gas prices. We hope that you appreciate in the same way that communication does not run rationally and that we can be mutually beneficial, and we can be useful to our fellow citizens, Bulgarian citizens at least in receiving adequate and objective information based on figures, statistics, impact assessment, analysis, and not mixed media participations every day or several days. This would reassure producers who are currently working on a blind "those who are directly affected by the gas, because they do not know what will happen at the price and cannot predict their production either as a scale or as an intensity, and this also reflects on the final prices of their products and thus reflects on every Bulgarian pocket of the taxpayer, a consumer, a citizen, especially the affected and so poor energy people that we have in our country, unfortunately. We at AGE think that we can be useful in this direction by proposing this committee, in which all representatives of political organizations in the National Assembly can participate on a parietal principle. There we will be able to have a constructive dialogue with the Council of Ministers and with the ministers who will deal with the various issues. In this way, we offer you a hand for faster coping and getting out of this situation, and we appeal to you a little bit more to talk to each other before you go out and talk to us and the Bulgarian citizens, because at some point it will be that the chaos, crisis and problems that we all have as part of the Bulgarian people come from inadequate policy-keeping rather than specific price parameters and supplies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-04.u351	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. With this, we have exhausted the agenda of the extraordinary meeting. Let us thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of Energy and the other persons heard for the participation. The next meeting is tomorrow at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
