ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u1	Good morning, colleagues! Please register. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u3	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u5	Thank you. 207 Members of parliament registered in the hall and two online representatives in a total of 209. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] According to the Programme for the work of the National Assembly for this working week, item only on our agenda is Parliamentary control in accordance with art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. First of all, I will read you the written answers to questions and questions received for the period from 11 to 17 March 2022: - by Minister Aleksandar Nikolov to two questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - from Minister Boyko Rashkov to a question from the National Representative Elisaveta Belobradova; - from Minister Georgi Gokov to a question from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Grozdan Karadjov to a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev, to a question from the National Representative Ivo Atanasov, to a question from the National Representative Ivo Ruschev, to a question from the National Representative Petar Marinov and to a question from the National Representative Rositsa Kirova; - from Minister Ivan Ivanov to seven questions from the National Representative Ivo Ruschev, to a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev, to a question from the National Representative Imren Mehmedova and Ihsan Hakki; - from Prime Minister Kiril Petkov to a question from the National Representative Kostadin Angelov and a question from the National Representative Nikolay Radulov; - from Minister Nikolay Denkov to a question from the National Representative Denitsa Sacheva; - by Minister Nikolay Sabev on a request from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva, on two questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev, on four questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova and on a question from the National Representative Halil Letifov; - from Minister Radostin Vassilev to a question from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev; - from Minister Hristo Prodanov to a question from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov; - by Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova on a question from the MP Petar Marinov. For a statement please, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Last night it was proved that it was not only absolute power that created conditions for a government to lose any boundaries of normality and legal order, but the fear of losing power proved to be an even stronger motivator. Fear that materializes in violence through abuse of the repressive apparatus of the state.. an approach inherent only to communists and fascists. [[(Radio.) Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u7	Mr. Mitov, no such qualifications, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u8	Last night an assassination was made against Bulgarian democracy. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] An attempt was made to destroy one of the basic consensuses in the Bulgarian society for refusal of political violence. Midnight searches and arrests in the homes of the former prime minister and people of the former cabinet's team without legal permission, without specific accusations, without the presence of a lawyer makes us a third world country. Only the Gestapo and the NKVD would be proud of last night's scenes. There is also great concern that the government in the face of the Ministry of Interior has allowed itself to abuse the name and functions of the European Prosecutor's Office. The lie that yesterday's disgrace has something to do with European mechanisms will be exposed. Trust in Bulgaria will be zeroed and every action of the government will be met with doubt and suspicion. In fact, last night the Ministry of Interior itself admitted the lie, erasing its own press release just a few hours after publishing it. And all this, just to change, at least for a few days, the focus of public attention. The level of helplessness and despair of the cabinet surpasses only the degree of his insolence. But let me inform you now that midnight searches and arrests will not reduce inflation, will not reduce the prices of essential food and fuel, will not dampen calls for military assistance to Ukraine and will not increase the government's management capacity. The bread is expensive, and the spectacles so far are free. The cabinet bet on the spectacles without thinking, and usually people who act recklessly are always surprised by the consequences. Because, yes, no one is above the law, but this also applies to those who violate the basic law, namely the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Once in the direction of the political repression and the silence of the opposition, there is only one way for the government to take the path of the ongoing repression until finally power has become a source of terror for all its citizens and has created a country in which everyone lives in fear. Since the leader of the largest opposition party and yesterday's prime minister may be subject to lawlessness, what is left for other citizens who do not want to accept empty bragging, the government's continuous lying, violations of consensus on financial and macroeconomic stability, failure with European funding, energy deals, feudalisation of institutions and the general feeling that no one is responsible for governance?! These are only a small part of the damage done by the government without having a clear plan and management program. I'm afraid to think about what it would be like if the majority had a coherent ideology and a systematic approach. On the eve of the operation, "Barbarosa" Hitler said: "All we have to do is kick the door and the entire rotten structure will collapse. "Probably Putin was thinking the same thing on the eve of the invasion in Ukraine. Instead, however, the same thing happened in World War II, rather than collapsing, the structure was tightened by the impact and is currently taking over. I suspect your government said the same about GERB on the eve of the attack on Borisov. But this time the story will repeat itself and they will see that instead of destroying us, this subversive blow will tighten and mobilize the opposition as never before. We call for protest all Bulgarian citizens who believe in democratic principles and that Bulgarian society should be united and united in times of challenges. From today on, the parliamentary group of GERB will work by all legal means to provoke early parliamentary elections, which are the last opportunity to normalize the political situation and exit from the dead end in which the current government brought Bulgaria in! God save Bulgaria! [[Extreme applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. We're moving on to parliamentary control now. Or not? Mr. Gyurov also made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! There's no one above the law! [[Noise, lines, screams: "Woo!" and banging on the banks by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u11	Colleagues, let's listen to each other anyway! [[Shouts: "Resign!" by GERB-SDS.]] Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. [[Shouting continues: "Omission!" by GERB-SDS.]] Wouldn't you be in front of the Council of Ministers at 9:00 to call these things, excuse me? [[Shouting continues: "Omission!" by GERB-SDS.]] Please, during your declaration, there were no such cries. [[Shouting continues: "Omission!" by GERB-SDS.]] Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u12	We the MPs from "We continue the Change." We turn to the Bulgarian society... [[GERB-SDS calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u13	Colleagues, during your declaration, there were no such cries! Please listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u14	You've crossed all limits!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u15	Dear fellow citizens, legality, order and real fight against corruption because of this hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians went to protests! [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] [[Extreme lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u16	Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u17	That's why we left our jobs, our families, our previous lives! [[Noise, lines, screams: "Woo!" and banging on the banks by GERB-SDS.]] We understand that the Bulgarian society sees the arrest of Mr. Borisov as unprecedented. These are normal investigative actions, unlike arresting women, handcuffing them and keeping them on the street on the sidewalk for hours in front of the cameras, in front of all Bulgarian citizens! [[a line from the National Representative Manoil Manev]] [[screams: "Woo!" and "Omission!" by GERB-SDS]] [[Shouting continues: "Woo! " and "Omission!" by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u18	Colleagues, behave yourselves!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u19	It's a repression, gentlemen and ladies! It's a repression! [[Shouting continues: "Omission!" by GERB-SDS.]] We from "We continue the Change" entered the policy with an application for compliance with the law and zero tolerance to corruption. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Whether there have been crimes committed is the answer in the hands of the investigating authorities. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u20	Take it easy, guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u21	However, the fact that we have not seen action in many public scandals so far shows deliberate passiveness. Until now, we have seen no illegal action by the Ministry of Interior. [[Shouts: "Woo!" by GERB-SDS.]] We expect that the police have sufficient reason and information that they have gathered the necessary evidence to support their actions. However, due to the long inactivity and lack of results on the numerous signals submitted, we have our concerns about the prosecution. [[GERB-SDS lines]] Bulgarian society saw for a long time that in our country of politicians no responsibility was sought. [[GERB-SDS lines]] It is time to end the transition and Bulgaria to become a normal European country! Thank you. [[The People's Representatives from..We continue the Change, ICN and DB are doing well. Long-term applause from the "Read more Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", INN and DB. Screams: "Resign!" by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u22	Colleagues, please, take it easy. There is no need for both during one and during the other declaration, let us maintain upbringing and listen to one another. [[GERB-SDS lines]] [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] Let's keep this, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Kralev, I heard your line from the spot. We will not impose a remark, but it is not right, please. Can we go through... Mr. Svilenski, a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! We're really in an unprecedented situation... [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u24	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u25	...in which the people who ruled the country for 12 years say that an assassination was committed against Bulgarian democracy. People who have been abducting Bulgarian democracy for 12 years give us lessons for democracy today. [[strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS]] People who spent 12 years exercising violence as a form of governance today say that consensus on non-violence has been violated. [[Reply from GERB-SDS: "Woo!" and "Georgi Dimitrov. "]] Colleagues, you'll have a chance, we've been watching you all night, you'll have a chance to talk more. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u26	Guys, don't move!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u27	The only thing I want to tell you... [[Scanded by GERB-SDS: "Omission!" and a pounding on the banks by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u28	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u29	Thanks, guys. [[Scanded: "Obsign!" and banging on the banks by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u30	Colleagues, let's listen to each other and during your declaration there were no such calls. Please! You're resigning, we understand. You have the right, of course, but let's still listen to the people who are in the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u31	Resign at what, colleagues? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Your fear that each and every one of you is empathetic to what is happening leads you to shout out! [[Lowered noise and lines, shouts: "Woo!" "The MPs from GERB-SDZ are coming to the stand."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u32	Mrs. Atanasova, please sit down.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u33	Let me speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u34	About what?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u35	About what's happening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u36	You've gone too far. [[The MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria are coming to the stand.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u37	Guys, take your seats. Mr. Chenchev, please take the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u38	What's happening is what's happening right now. Here's what you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u39	Mr. Svilensky, wait a minute. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u40	Who's calling for a resignation? I'm calling for a resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u41	Why are you talking nonsense?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u42	What nonsense? I haven't started. What nonsense did I say?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u43	What colleague? You're not a coworker anymore. We're done. [[Replications between the MPs from GERB-SDS and the MP Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u44	How can she insult you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u45	What have I done to offend you, Mr. Angelov? What have I done to offend you? What have I done to offend you? Tell me, what have I done to offend you, Angelov, what have I done to offend you? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] With what you say: resignation. Not with a crime, I didn't say the word crime. Let's get the transcript back. That you're guilty, that's your problem. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] Just don't scare me! Get the transcript out. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS and the People's Representative Ivan Chenchev deters the MPs from GERB-SDS for stepping into the stand.]] Ivan, that's what they've been doing all night, don't worry! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] When did I say that crime? When did I say crime? Wasn't he a minister in this department? Aren't you involved in politics?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u46	Which one am I empathetic to?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u47	In his actions as a minister. I didn't say it was a crime.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u48	So, honourable Members, I am announcing a 15-minute break to 9:40 p.m. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u49	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. [[The Deputy Prime Minister of Economy and Industry and Minister of Economy and Industry Cornelia Ninova enters and applauses from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Good afternoon! Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. Georgi Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, a second attempt, I hope this time will be successful. The Bulgarian Socialist Party and the parliamentary group, honourable Members, in the last five or six years, has been consistent in the fight against corruption in the country, so we have suffered a lot of blows and foreign parties and internal parties. We have paid the price and now we can proudly stand before you and say that a contribution to what is happening in Bulgaria, to have another government, Bulgaria has clearly stated that corruption will not be tolerated and that it will be a goal, a fight against it No 1 and that BSP will be a guarantor of this is our policy, which we have been pursuing for the last five or six years. More than 17 signals to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office for Corruption Actions of the Government of Borisov, more than 10 or 12 signals to European institutions: The Bulgarian Socialist Party as a political force has shown the vices of this government to the Bulgarian society. It is a good thing that the time has come when these vices are already seen by the authorities in the state government, and I hope the prosecution also, because without the joint actions of the police and the prosecution, we will not reach the desired zero corruption. BSP will continue to be the guarantor for the protection of democracy in the state, so that the government is not tempted by any non-traditional practices of the recent past and Bulgarian citizens will be calm that every Bulgarian lev of theirs will be spent transparently, will be spent fair and will be spent on what is defined by all of us, that there is not a single lev of Bulgaria's budget to be distributed by the SUV through the window, that there is not a single lev of Bulgarian citizens, from the budget to go into the drawer that there is no Bulgarian lev to go into gold bars. Because when we talk about corruption, the governors themselves said a few years ago that 700 million had expired from the Gambling Commission. Now they're wondering why these things happen. Every Bulgarian citizen can remember the events two years ago and connect them to today's events, to the present reality in which there is a majority that has decided to fight corruption and which will bring to light everything that has happened. This is the way it should be in the future. We must not allow ourselves, we must not be tempted, we must not hide, but we must show, because the Bulgarians deserve to know the truth. Regarding what will happen from now on, the legal consequences of the prosecution should speak, let the human rights authorities speak. We, as politicians, must guarantee free choice, free existence and free decision making by both the MPs and the government, so that all the things that we have united in this coalition government can happen. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u51	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Can we move on to control now or...?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u52	I want the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u53	Are you here for an affidavit, Mr. Karadayi?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u54	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u55	All right, here we go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the manner of conduct, because in order to make a declaration, we need facts. At the moment, the declarations we have heard are based on assumptions. However, the conclusion of what we have been listening to so far can be done, Mr President, and you had to remind the speakers of some things. For example, we have heard that 12 years of assassinations have taken place against democracy. We, I think from this tribune, have argued this thing throughout this period, but it continues today and things are getting worse in an even worse direction. So you continue to change, that is, you are destroying democracy even more. This topic gives us the opportunity to make an association with another topic. We, from July 2021, ask Mr. Rashkov for documents to claim with facts whether there is police and violation of the law in the country, but we do not receive them until now. We also heard that no one is above the law. Yes, it is, a quote from Tsvetanov, a quote from Borisov from 2009, 2010, a quote from the "Change" now 2021, 2022. Nothing new, nothing new under the sun and we have come to power to fight the offenders of the law. Yes, you came to power with the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. And we've heard more: God save Bulgaria! But, fellow Members, do we keep it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u57	Mr. Karadaye, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u58	Do we protect Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u59	Tell me where I have sinned.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u60	Do we protect the rule of law and institutions in the country? So, Mr. President, may I remind you, too, did we tell you? Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u61	Mr. Gutsanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! At the risk of being on the verge of the Rules, but I think that in today's day many things need to be made clear and said. I regret that colleagues from GERB's parliamentary group SDS are not in the Chamber, I do not like to talk behind anyone's back. But I agree with Mr. Karadayi, who said 12 years of assassinations have been committed against democracy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u63	And now another year.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u64	And if today, however, we are talking about this arrest, which has taken place, whether it has been shown or not, whether the Ministry of Interior has exceeded its rights or has not exceeded them? I want to go back 12 years. On March 31, 2010, when an outstanding arrest was really carried out, in my house, in front of my children and in front of my wife, who were then five and seven years old. And when heavy-armed policemen came in with guns pointed at the kids and asked my wife to wrap them up with a blanket so they wouldn't watch what was going on. This is an outspoken arrest and this is a political arrest because thanks to these actions it became another government in Varna. And if something was done by the police in a brutal violation of human rights...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u65	And it's still being done.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u66	This is the typical example. And so for these 12 years it has been given as a charismatic example by lawyers for violating human rights. That is why the cases were won in Strasbourg and Bulgaria. I think these things shouldn't happen, not when the police come in and they want to do their job. If there's evidence, if there's no evidence, let's say the authorities that have that right. We've had enough of 12 years of corruption. What I would like to say in the end is that everyone must be equal before the law, from the Prime Minister to the people who care about cleanliness on our streets. And when this isn't a slogan, it becomes a real action, then democracy has really won. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, once again for the time given. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u67	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Colleagues, let's hear from Yavor Bozhankov on procedure. Is she going to be over the edge of the Rules, too?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u68	I offer my apologies in advance, Mr. Chairman, but today is a special day. We are obliged for the sake of Bulgarian citizens to make a clarification, a distinction and be careful when we work from the stand and when we use specific words because GERB work for repression. And we have to explain to them what repression is. The fact that they're restless right now is understandable. They are accustomed for 12 years to rest on a saying: "A raven crow's eye does not pull out. " - 1 Power of another authority, an account does not seek and one conceals the crimes of another. And we 12 years consecutively each day in this Chamber have taken these crimes out on display and at the moment we are not gloating, neither are we glad, nor are we looking for someone's account, nor are we making judgments, as GERB did, because when GERB is talking about repression, they have pronounced sentences from this tribune. And they received sentences which the Bulgarian people paid. The cases of Mr. Tsvetanov were paid millions by the Bulgarian taxpayers and never regressed towards him was sought. The doctors in Gorna Oryahovitsa, various businessmen, businesses were destroyed, in Veliko Tarnovo some ended their lives. Then they came out innocent, but their families lost members. These are stories our area knows well. Who remember Tsvetanov's deeds, who remember the repression of GERB. And if we are now talking about the rule of law and quite calmly we will follow how this situation develops, in those years there was fear. People were afraid to talk on the phone when they saw each other, they said: I can tell dozens more cases only from the region of Tarnovo, and there are thousands throughout Bulgaria, I can speak from the first person singular, I have seen with my own eyes what repression means. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman, and thank you for your patience. It is a repression to appear in elections and a private security company to enter the Bulgarian villages, a repression is when you are dragged into the police every day and a camera is waiting for you in front of the police. Every day a journalist waits for you to be escorted out of the police station where you entered on the false signals of the former government. Do you know what a repression is? From the first person the sole number of the repression is to see your sick father dying and next to his bed an investigator interrogates him when they are placed against him signals that he is buying votes is repression. A man dying of cancer, on a bed and against him signals before the elections, during the elections and after the elections... died. I'm talking about my own father. I've seen it with my own eyes, I've experienced it on my back. GERB must distinguish repression from the rule of law and the normal democratic process. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria........................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u69	For procedure? All right, here you go, Miroslava Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! I'm addressing you, Mr. Chairman, with a real request. This building is a symbol, these banks have stood decent people, and please don't ever let anyone in this room hit the furniture like that again and break them down again. On the principle on which these people who are now absent left a broken country 12 years after their rule. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. I don't think there's any other procedures, is there? Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! We had indeed given up our intention to make a declaration, but the multitude of statements seemed to make us somehow obliged to make this declaration, not for anything else, but to bring the subject back where it belongs. Dear colleagues, the rule of law and no one is above the law has a direct bearing on whether the basic law, whether the other laws, whether the procedures in our country are respected. There are no colleagues from GERB, but I will turn to them because they will hear it perhaps later. It all started with their leadership. The violation of the law, the police of Tsvetanov and the subsequent governments, the violations for which the DPS has been alarming for 12 years. The authorities of the state were turned into bats against business and ordinary citizens, turned into an instrument for winning elections. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is always protesting this, and indeed this must be put to an end. However, we also have an addition to the rule of law, to the requirement that no one be above the law. We made it to President Radev a long time ago, we also made it to the new political forces in the previous two parliaments and to you without rematching. Refusal from rematchism is a fundamental principle on which the DPS party is built because if the Turkish ethnicity in Bulgaria had not given up the rematch, believe me, Bulgaria would have been different. The same is true in today's country. We of the DPS will not become lawyers to anyone who has broken the law, must answer, no matter which party it is from, including ours. This must be done by legal procedures and by legal rules and by Constitution. We have been alerting you for so many months now that the interior minister in both offices, and today, he's doing iniquities, standing above the law, he's above the law, believe me! As they say, my white head has seen a lot in this room and outside it, it is above the law. The procedures that have been carried out during elections to enter his employees into the homes of elderly people, to enter the home of a woman with cancer, to make her get up, to sit down, to walk, to see if she can walk, do not remain idle about it when I tell you from this tribune. It is not a cry for dishonest elections, it is a cry for justice, because under the mask of a battle for justice and legality, repression is often carried out. The road to hell is paved with good intentions. You know that, don't you? The good intentions, in order to get justice, must be in the legal order. So we didn't want to take attitude in the morning, because we don't know, we don't know on what basis last night's procedure was done, we don't know if this is within the legal framework or not within the legal framework. We of the DPS lawyers of Mr. Borisov will not become, we will not become lawyers of GERB or anyone, but we will defend anyone against whom there is an exercise of repression, police and he is persecuted not by law. Remember that for us are not empty words, that everyone is innocent until proven guilty, and proof happens in court according to appropriate procedures. In conclusion, to tell you, if necessary, the DPS will protect both the current ministers and the current prime minister if one day it is necessary, but as we see it, it may be necessary. [[Noise from.. We continue the Change.]] If so, yes, do not smile, so did GERB when we spoke to them a while ago. Do you know how fast time goes? When Minister Rashkov comes here, we'll tell him, we've been waiting a few weeks. A few weeks or a few months, or three years, the power will end, and then the responsibility comes. However, this responsibility, the DPS, will insist on being sought by law, without rematching. This is what we call you from the DPS. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u73	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Colleagues, I'm starting: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. There is only one question, and Cornelia Nino will answer.. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Industry. The colleagues from GERB are gone and some questions will be dropped, including one to Ms. Ninova, the other is from Ivo Ruschev and Nikolay Drenchev on chamber policy in the Ministry of Economy and Industry. Here you are, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Ninova, in 2016 as MP and Chairman of the BSP Parliamentary Group, you submitted a bill for public enterprises. In your and your colleagues' media appearances, you say that with it you give a new vision for the management of state enterprises. The focus in protecting your bill is to stop party influence on the board of state enterprises by appointing party loyal individuals, so-called ladybugs. You also state that these enterprises must be managed on a market basis through experienced professionals. My question to you is: what is the new composition of the board of the DKK as a CV; what is the previous experience in enterprise management; do your appointed members have participation in the BSP? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ruschev. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Dear Mr. Ruschev, Dear Mr. Drenchev! On 4 February this year, the following persons were appointed as new members of the Board of Directors of the DKK with a decision of the sole owner of the capital: Ivaylo Tsvetanov Lilov as an independent member; Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva as an independent member; Daniel Kirov Milev as a representative of the state; Mikhail Todorov Kunchev as a representative of the state; Tanya Naydenova Mitova Mitova as a representative of the state. I draw your attention to the fact that this is a temporary guide until the competition is held and concluded, which requires the Law on Public Enterprises. The appointed members of the Board of Directors of the DKK shall comply with the Public Enterprise Act and its implementing Rules. First of all, we have made sure that these are not ladybugs without professional experience, but only party appointments, that they have qualifications and professional experience that I will present to you, possess the necessary knowledge and competence to perform their duties as members of the body. Here are their biographies you're interested in: 1. Mihail Todorov Kunchev He has gained professional experience in the field of legal service of the activity, procedural representation and internal administrative control. He has taken the following positions: State Inspector at the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Finance; Senior Legal Consultant at the Regional Institute of Health and Health, Sofia-district; Chief Legal Consultant, State Inspector and Financial Controller at the Commission for Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests; State Inspector and Chief Legal Consult at the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. He worked as an expert programme and project at the International Banking Institute. 2. Tanya Naydenova Mitova Acquired professional experience in the field of civil and corporate law, procedural representation, real estate, member of the Sofia Bar Association since 1981. 3. Daniel Kirov Milev has a diploma for completed higher education from the University of National and World Economy. He has professional experience in the field of administrative management, market research and control of financial records, occupying different positions in several companies. 4. Smilyana Nikolova Nieva-Krsteva holds a diploma for completed higher education at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. Ms. Krasteva has in-depth knowledge of national legislation and representation in various processes. 5. Ivaylo Tsvetanov Lilov graduated from the University of Veliko Tarnovo. St. Cyril &amp; Methodius, UNWE. Specialty....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Professional experience in organising financial and business activities of companies for more than five years. This is about the professional qualifications of colleagues. In this field of work in the State Consolidated Company is required mainly economic and legal education. The problems and processes that flow in the company and the management of companies are primarily in these two spheres, so when we appoint, we have sought and respected these professional qualities. Of the five are members of the BSP this is part of your second answer, and we are neither worried nor ashamed of it. When you participate in government as a political power and political party, it is most logical to participate with your own staff because you are responsible as a party for this government. And in the Ministry of Economy and Industry is the responsibility of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and it is quite normal for us to have BSP personnel participate in this government, but again I remind you that this is a temporary guide until the competition is held and concluded. And finally, the most important thing is that they are professionals, and I think that from the facts that I have presented to you, this is obvious and that they will be people who will end the serious processes that have been going on in the DKK in recent years, expose the serious abuses and change the governance of state enterprises, namely in the direction of stopping corruption and stabilizing them as state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. You have the floor for a line. Mr. Drenchev will make the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u78	Dear Mrs. Ninova, you said that professional biography shows the professionalism of people who are members of BSP. I would add that in addition to the three members of the BSP you say I recognize Tanya Naydenova, Smilyana Niva, Ivo Lilov. Mihail Kunchev is also at least related to BSP as far as his father was a member of the BSP. Tanya Naydenova is mainly known for her activities as a municipal councillor and with line 74 of the city transport in Sofia. She's a member of the BSP, a lawyer. Yes, but under criminal law is Mrs. Smilyana Nieva, in which we also do not see any particular activity in terms of the necessary experience needed to manage this important state-owned company. In any case, we have the impression that when you are in opposition, you speak one thing, and when you are in government, you do another. Out of power, you put the expertise first, and here it seems that the expertise is quite suppressed by party loyalty. This accusation is common to the coalition, not just to you and not to the party appointments in BSP. The truth is that the current government has created additional ministries in order to meet the needs of all parties involved in the coalition. Unfortunately, we cannot show the general public, for example, the party appointments of the Volt party, because citizens do not know such a party, and it is in fact a mandate carrier of the Canadian faction. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u79	The weather, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u80	Yeah, I'm gonna ask for a few seconds...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u81	To the point, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u82	...in addition, as Mrs. Ninova also received much more time...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u83	Yeah, but you're bringing in questions that aren't related to the question you're asking, so I'm making a note for you anyway. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u84	Yeah, I'm done with a last sentence. Either way, the BSP party is the oldest party in the coalition. It is most visible, its images are the most visible and I very much hope that what has been done in recent years, because of which the last government received many negatives, we will not see it in the next series during the reign of the current coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u85	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Would you like the word for the back, Mrs. Ninova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u86	My fellow Member, did I not understand the reproach or the remark that a criminal law specialist does not have a proper place in the management of a company?! May I say that in the DKK we need such a specialist and I will soon come before you with the result of the checks and the Court of Auditors' report that we have put forward. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I just remind you that on another such case, I have presented to you information, we have submitted over 400 documents to the prosecution and there have already been pre-trial proceedings for this case. Let me tell you in advance that, compared to the Expo Dubai, the DCC is a much heavier case, and not only for the 500 million dams, but also for other things that I will announce to the National Assembly very soon. So a person who knows criminal law and criminal trial is needed at this time to make everything right. Today we are also talking about what is happening with Mr. Borisov that everything should be by law and proper, so your note that one of your colleagues is a specialist in criminal law, I do not consider serious in this case. Mr. Chairman, can I say something outside of this?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u87	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u88	I request the procedure for the possibility of speaking as Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u89	So, basically, we're done with this, and we're moving on to the next one?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u90	I'm gonna have to ask you that we're not done here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u91	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u92	I would like to say the following: I have a question from a colleague from GERB about one of the dams, which is in critical condition. It is their will that they have left the hall for other reasons. I know this is out of the procedure, as there is no one to ask me this question, but I also know from many people near the dam and several settlements that are currently in great distress, so if you'll allow me to say a few words...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u93	Yeah, you're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u94	...for the critical condition of this dam to calm people down, ignoring the procedure that there is no one to ask me the question. If you say the Rules don't allow it, I won't say it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u95	No, the Rules allow you to speak on this issue, but I also remind you that Mr. Shishkov's question is postponed for the next time, so then you could answer him with more details, and now, of course, you are right. We are finished with Mr. Drenchev's questions and now I give you the floor to express an opinion on a matter that is not related to the question asked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u96	I thank you because I really know from a call that people are worried and in their name and because of them I would like to say a few words about the dam Pilashevo 3 As early as 13 July 2018, the state consolidation company was designated for the company that needs to repair the dams with a decision of the Council of Ministers. Then there is a list of necessary repairs due to danger in some dams. I'm paying your attention to 2018 and now we're 2022. Between the DQC and the Montajs......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... One year later, after the decision of the Council of Ministers, a contract was signed for the award of repair and reconstruction activities at the dam Pilashevo 3. According to the requirements of the law in the DKK, there is an expert council that makes the assessments and gives the prescriptions, and this Council on 13 July 2018, in accordance with the decision since then, approves an investment project for carrying out the repair and reconstruction activities of Pilashevo 3. The agreeable procedures with the RIEW "Plovdiv," and the Swimming Directorate have concluded with a positive opinion on an investment proposal, and a report on conformity assessment has also been prepared on the document. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this process has been going on for three years in urgent and urgent repair actions. Imagine if it wasn't an emergency?! So maybe he needs a criminal law specialist at the DKK. And for the peace of the people, I say that we have done everything we can, all procedures are speeding up and we are about to open the construction site and start repairs now. Rest assured, the state, and in particular the Ministry of Economy, we will do our best. We won't put you in danger. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Maybe Mrs. Yordanova should be invited. Here you go. Just to let you know. You saw that Minister Sabev came, but since colleagues from GERB proved that they will not participate in today's parliamentary control, he had only one question from Mr. Balachev, this question remains for some next time. This leads us to the questions to Mrs. Nadezhda Yordanova, Minister of Justice. The first question is from Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova. He also remains for further control. The second question to Mrs. Yordanova is from the National Representative Elena Guncheva on compensations under the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for damages and compensation in cases in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u98	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, my question relates to the benefits that the state pays citizens and organizations for damage caused by it. Bulgaria has repeatedly been condemned by decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. In part of the cases there are agreements on which Bulgaria also pays money. The Law on State liability and the municipalities for damages provides for the regression responsibility of the guilty officials for the compensation paid. I would point out that this regression of responsibility cannot mislead politicians as well as people who are outside the administration system. My question is this: in the last three years Bulgaria has been sentenced for what amounts by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg? How much money is given for compensation under agreements in similar cases? During the same period, how many officials has the State filed regression claims? How much money has been returned to the state budget? How is personal responsibility for condemning Bulgaria to pay benefits for human rights violations and unlawful acts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. You have the floor to answer, Minister Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Guncheva, thank you very much for this question. I see it as a development of the debate that we had just a few days ago when considering the Law on Supplement to the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention. In fact, we will talk about these issues over the coming months because how Bulgaria implements and guards human rights and freedoms is a very big issue and how we implement the judgmental decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, whose number is unfortunately quite large. As the specific of your question. The benefits paid by a decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the last three years are as follows: a total of 898 thousand were paid in 2019. And 600 BGN, of which 91 thousand. BGN 260. are on friendly agreements and unilateral declarations. Unilateral declarations are also the other form of voluntary settlement of the dispute. A total of 779 thousand were paid in 2020. 380 BGN, of which 1950 BGN A friendly arrangement. A total of 740 thousand were paid in 2021. BGN 598, of which 228 thousand. BGN 318. on friendly agreements and unilateral declarations. The amounts for the benefits shall be paid from the Republican budget and the procedure shall be quarterly. The Minister of Justice shall submit a report to the Council of Ministers on the provision of funds from the Republican budget for the implementation of these decisions. With regard to regression responsibility, this issue has been repeatedly discussed within the State. According to the current legal framework.................................................................................................. 31 of the Civil Procedure Code, the State is represented in these cases by the Minister of Finance. So the information about whether or not there are such cases is currently outside the functional competence of the Minister of Justice. In an analysis of publicly disclosed judgments, no such decisions have been found. The possibility of seeking regression responsibility in cases where violations of human rights and freedoms have been found, we have in force judgment decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and is of a complex nature. Because very often these decisions point to specific institutions, more than one institution is guilty, there are no specific officials mentioned. Then, when it comes to acts or omissions of magistrates, we have the so-called functional immunity that is guaranteed in art. 132 of the Constitution. There are numerous international recommendations that say that when it comes to acts of magistrates, very careful action must be taken and responsibility can be taken for how they have exercised their power only when there are very significant violations when it comes to a deliberate crime of a general nature and in strict compliance with the requirements for competition and protection of human rights. There are proposals for amendment in art. 31 of the Civil Procedure Code and this will be a new occasion to discuss the problem again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. You have the floor for supplementary questions, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u102	Dear Minister, please make an explanation of how the Ministry of Justice intends to solve this problem. Including such regressive liability to include other persons outside the administration. I understand that magistrates have immunity and must very carefully approach such decisions, but what is happening at the moment is complete impunity for violating citizens' rights, including delayed justice, including illegal arrests. After all, we all pay the price of someone's behavior, which is contrary to the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. You have the floor to answer the supplementary question, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u104	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Guncheva, as I briefly mentioned in my reply, we are currently analyzing the various possibilities. I repeat: at the moment this particular issue is beyond the functional competence of the Minister of Justice, but in so far as it has been discussed within the Council of Ministers what we are currently analysing as our practice is the experience that we have gained in the realization of the regression responsibility in cases when the state has paid compensation to victims as a result of a crime. Yes, it's a very different hypothesis, no doubt. However, it is very important that we see what the lessons normally are in this type of regression responsibility procedures to see from there how to proceed and the topic that you are putting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. You have the opportunity to take an attitude. You will not take this opportunity. Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova, for your participation in today's control. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov. The first question is from the MP Elhan Kulkov about the intended logging of timber around the water supply area of the village of Gorno Dryanovo, Garmen municipality. Here you are, Mr. Kulkov, to develop your question, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I received several signals from residents of the village of Gorno Dryanovo, who are worried to say that the state-owned company Garmen was planning to cut timber along the river Dryanovo and the river Tsurna, which is its inflow. The concern comes from the fact that the water supply of the settlement is carried out precisely by these rivers through open water sources. In recent years, as a result of climate change and increasingly hot months in the summer, water supply has been an extremely big problem in this populated area. There have been weeks during which a water supply regime is required, especially during the summer period. Given that the inhabitants of the village of Gorno Dryanovo are fully connected to the forest, they have always made efforts and have provided the necessary assistance to protect this natural given. My question to you is this: is there an opportunity to stop this logging of the forest around the water supply area of the village of Gorno Dryanovo in order to reassure the inhabitants of the village that they will not have to be in water supply mode? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u107	Thank you, Mr. Kulkov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u108	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kulkov, in connection with the question you have asked about the intended logging in the water supply zone, on 17 and 18 February 2022 was carried out a thorough documentary and field inspection by employees of the South-Western State Enterprise, Blagoevgrad, on the basis of which the following was carried out: the sanitary and security area around river watering around the river river Cherna reka, the flow of the river Dryanovska river, located in the lands of the village of Leshten, the village of Deben and the village of Orech in the municipality of Germen, for drinking water supply of the village of Leshten, was determined by order of 2 December 2009 of Basinova Directorate-General for Waters and Waters. The river Dryanovska Reka, the Black River and the waterfall of the village Gorno Dryanovo fall into the farm section of the territorial unit. Six plantings are located in an establishment for which a procedure for the award of the harvesting of the wood marked for logging in the amount of 2935 cubic metres has been carried out and a contract has been concluded with a company registered in the territory of the municipality of Garmen and meeting the requirements of art. 115 of the Forest Law. None of these plants fall within the innermost belt I of the sanitary zone, with an area of three hectares, which is designated for strict security directly around the water source and/or facility. In the average zone II of the designated sanitary zone with an area of 193.1 hectares, five of the six plantings included in the wood extraction site fall. In accordance with the restrictions imposed on the order for the notification of the sanitary zone, plantings under the forestry plan are planned to carry out cuttings with reduced intensity. The zone III of the sanitary zone is not separate. In carrying out an inspection, it has also been established that the statutory documents required for the removal of planned business events are available for all plantings and that the intended use is between 10% and 25% of the total stock of the plantations. It is established that the marking of logging trees was carried out in accordance with the requirements of Ordinance No 8 of 2011 on logging in forests. Marking forestry farmers have taken into account the presence of the water supply area and the introduced restriction regime, with the marking carried out with lower intensity than planned under the forestry plan. In the only plant that is directly bordering the river Dryanovska river, a buffer zone of 20 meters wide is left along it. In the remaining five plantations, where there are ravines of the river Dryanovska river, additional buffer zones of more than 20 metres wide are also left in marking, although the derets are not with constant currents of water. All plantings have been granted permissions for logging since 21 January 2022 and have not yet started, and the deadline for logging and hauling to temporary forest warehouse is 30 December 2022. It should be noted that the state forest areas managed by the territorial unit DCC "Germen" are certified for sustainable forest management under the National FSC standard of Bulgaria. According to the requirements of the standard, the holding has provided for measures to protect the water current, the water bed and the riverside area in the event of logging and imozation and will exercise control over their implementation. According to the forestry plan, it was found that from the graviating river of Dryanovska river plantations in the forestry section of "Topa" for the entire 10-year period of operation of the forestry plan are intended for use around 7000 cubic metres of wood by the end of the implementation of the plan in 2030. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , as part of the firewood for the local population will be provided by the quoted area. Do you want me to move on or...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u109	How many more are there?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u110	One page, about a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u111	Come on, keep going, and then we'll cut back on time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u112	The hypotheses in which a logging permit is granted may be debarred are regulated in art. 57 of Ordinance No 8 of 2011 on logging in forests and in art. 59, para. 1 of the same regulation lays down in detail the grounds on which logging may be stopped in the plantations. At present, there are none of the specific grounds described in the regulation. In relation to an additional signal received for logging carried out by the site in the period from 26 "February 27" on 1 March, a second check was carried out with a field perimeter of all the plantations from the site at a snow cover of about 30 centimeters, where it was found that logging and removal from the site had not been carried out. There are also nearby plantations, part of other active regular and transitional sites outside water supply zones, where regular logging was established and followed by an expedition on 26 February of wood from a plant with snow and snow damage. On 15 March 2022, a meeting was held in the building of the Municipality of Garmen, town hall village of Gorno Dryanovo, territorial unit of DGS It is confirmed that at this point it has not yet started logging in the plantations from the site. In view of the demands of the village of Gorno Dryanovo and the planned activities under the forestry plan for the region, additional decisions have been taken for prevention in the implementation of the logging It is decided separately that the planned forestry plan by 2030 business activities in neighbouring crops in the region should not be implemented and that the plantings should be defined as old-age forests when the new plan is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. That's an extremely detailed answer. Your team must, however, comply with time constraints. Here you go, Mr. Kulkov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the other hand, I'll be shorter. Dear Minister, I thank you for the comprehensive answer you have given. Thank you for making a commitment to the administration and meeting with the inhabitants of the settlements in question, in particular the village of Gorno Dryanovo. However, what I have heard later that part of the events will be cut short, perhaps to some extent it will satisfy the villagers. Because, as you yourself said, in Belt II according to your data about 3000 cc cc cc cc cc c c c c c c c c c c l u l l u l l l u l l l l l u l l l l l u l l l l l u l l l l l l l u l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l a l l l l l a l l l l l l a l l l u l l l l l l l a l l l l a l l l a l l l a l l l a l l l a l l a l l a l a l a l a l a l a l a l a l a l a l a l a l a l a l a l a l a l I hope a compromise is reached and I hope that in the future your employees will be fairer with regard to the predictions of logging in the specific sanitary zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u115	Thank you, Mr. Kulkov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Ivanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kulkov, we have, of course, taken steps in a timely manner to really establish what the problem is and how to fix it. I expect that if there are other such cases, we will be alerted and we will take timely action. You know that this area is a priority for us because, as a result of the floods in December 2021, water supply was broken. So all necessary measures in this order will be taken. Our employees are 24 hours a day available to prevent illegal logging and at the same time meet the requirements of the local population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We move on to the next issue by the MPs Zornitsa Stratieva, Alexander Dunchev and Miroslava Petrova concerning measures to protect the centuries-old forests in Bulgaria, which are the subject of logging. Who's going to develop the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, our question is related to the measures for the protection of the centuries-old forests in Bulgaria, which are subject to logging. In 2021, a Forest Strategy was adopted by the European Commission. It is valid until 2030 and has been developed in the context of the European Green Deal and the European Commission Biodiversity Strategy by 2030. Its main objectives are the effective afforestation and protection of forests in Europe, including mapping and protection of the last remaining primary and old forests in the European Union and placing at least 10% of forests in the territory of the European Union, and in particular Bulgaria, under strict legal protection. The concept of the conservation of the centuries-old forests in Bulgaria as forests with the highest conservation value and habitats of importance for the conservation of rare and forest species and nearly 60% of forest biodiversity is laid down as one of the priorities in the coalition agreement that we signed November. The first steps in the implementation of this European target of 10% were taken by Bulgaria with orders of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in 2016, 2020, and by Order No RD 49-196/21.05.2021 of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests to limit the renewable logging by 30% in state forests over 100 years of age in order to create conditions for effective mapping and protection of the last remaining poorly influenced by human old forests in Bulgaria. In this regard, please inform us: what administrative measures and when will be taken by the Ministry of Agriculture to carry out the necessary mapping and protection of the most valuable old forests in Bulgaria, in addition to the progress made by the Ministry in 2016 - 2020 to help achieve both the European target of 10% strict protection and long-term clarity for the logging business which forests remain for industrial logging? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u120	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Stratieva, Mr. Dunchev, Mrs. Petrova! Article 5 of the Forest Act regulates the division of forest areas in accordance with their prevailing functions in three categories: protection, special and business. Forest areas which are not protected and special and which aim at sustainable wood production and non-woody forest products are predominantly business areas. Categorisation of forest areas for which no special status and regimes have been defined and introduced under other laws shall be carried out with the regional plans for the development of forest areas and shall be specified by the forestry plans or programmes. The main subject of activity of state-owned enterprises under art. 163 of the Forests Act is the implementation of the forestry plans for the forestry territories. The fact that the Treaties establishing and functioning of the European Union do not introduce common forest legislation should be taken into account, therefore the policies of the European Union concerning forests and forestry do not have a legally binding nature and are expressed mainly by the EU Forest Strategy adopted in July 2021 until 2030. The implementation of a policy in the field of forest management remains primarily national competence. The European Union Forest Strategy by 2030 is not a legally binding document. The EU strategy for forests by 2030 does indeed contain a separate section on the protection of the last remaining primary and old forests in the European Union, but does not present the definitions of primary and old forests. At present, the European Commission has not yet agreed on common definitions of primary and old forests and a strict regime of protection to be drawn up in cooperation with Member States and stakeholders. Member States shall, for their part, undertake urgently to complete the mapping and monitoring of these forests and should ensure that there is no deterioration in their situation until they start applying the protection regime. Although Bulgaria is actively involved in the policies of the European Union for the protection of forests and biodiversity, in the national legal framework concerning forests and forest areas, the concepts of old are not introduced in the Strategy. To a certain extent, the concept of old forests is associated with old-fashioned forests, defined in the implementation of the EU Habitat Directive. The definition of old-age forest is laid down in Regulation No 8 of 2011 on logging in forests, and the restrictions and requirements for old-age forests are laid down in Chapter 6 of that regulation. The protection of old forests is also part of the principles and indicators of Bulgaria's National FSC standard for forest management, which are certified over 70% of the forest areas. The application of the standard requires the establishment of old-age forests on at least 5% of the area of certified forest areas, which do not plan and carry out forestry activities, with the exception of recovery after large-scale infringements. According to the standard, additional and representative samples shall be determined from all ecosystems in which forestry activities are also not carried out, other than recovery activities, to a state close to the natural one that provides protection of a minimum of 10% of the area of certified forest areas. Despite the fact that the forest certification, which is legally voluntary, the joint management agreement of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by the coalition partners in the period 2021 - 2025 provides for a continuation of the policy for full certification of the state forests. The Forests Executive Agency has taken action towards mapping the old forests, and in 2021 the Forests Executive Agency together with the Directorate-General for National Nature Protection and Waters at the Ministry of Environment and the Non-governmental sector has developed a project proposal for the recovery of key climate ecosystems in the implementation of the European Union Biodiversity Strategy and the objectives of the European Green Pact as part of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan. In this regard, the Forest Executive Agency has committed itself to mapping the old forests in non-state forest areas. The measures for the protection of the centuries-old forests should be long-term regulated and introduced in the preparation of regional forest development plans and specified in the preparation of forestry plans according to the adopted definitions. The introduction of restrictions on the use of wood from forests over 100 years of age with administrative orders does not lead to the achievement of the objectives of strict protection of primary and old forests defined by the European Union Forest Strategy until 2030, as many of them have been subject to active forestry activities which do not allow them to be referred to these categories of forests. In conclusion, it can be pointed out that the prerequisites and opportunities for the conservation of forests in a phase of old age are present and should be worked consistently to reach agreement and support from all stakeholders and from the general public for their implementation in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Dunchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u122	Dear Mr. Ivanov, hello! Dear colleagues! I've been dealing with this my whole life. I don't know who prepared your answer, I didn't get anything from him, and for the rest of my colleagues, if anyone found out anything, I'd buy him a bottle of wine.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u123	Well, these proposals, Mr. Dunchev, not from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u124	The only thing I can say as a replica to go in any direction is that in Europe's Green Deal, one of the key measures to protect biodiversity, to tackle climate change is the protection of 10% of Europe's territory with strict protection status. In Bulgaria, these most meaningful territories that can be protected are the centuries-old forests. There is concentrated the richest biodiversity in Bulgaria, next place the fields and some aquators. In this case, we couldn't really figure out what the Ministry was going to do. I simply ask your colleagues to prepare the questions and answers within half a paragraph, not five pages, of which no one understands anything, because we are interested in the following: will you ultimately take advantage of that Minister Bozukov, who is also from your circles, but we have worked perfectly with him, and he gave an order to limit... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We worked perfectly together.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u125	Please do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber, Mr. Dunchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u126	Its order limited the possibility of logging in at least 30% of these old forests in order to enable colleagues from state farms, from the municipalities, they are not concerned, of course, mainly state farms, to continue the mapping process. You said there were no rules, Europe didn't know what it was doing yet. How did we manage with Mrs. Taneva, who accused me of making references to GERB well, leave them GERB, they escaped, but with her how did we manage to map and protect 100,000 hectares of forests, now Europe wants us to complement them, and with you we will not be able to do it? Let's try to find... [[Replication by National Representative Georgi Svilenski: "Who are you? "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u127	Please, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u128	We MPs in the National Assembly, with you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, Taneva has no say anymore. We're here, us and you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u129	No, don't engage in dialogue with the Chamber, Mr. Dunchev. Finish it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u130	So Taneva and I were able to find criteria to protect the centuries-old forests. And now our question is: by these criteria can't we continue to define the centuries-old forests? Because it would be pointless to cut them off first by removing Professor Bosukov's order and then, after five years, by inventing the new criteria of the European Commission, we have yet to map them when they are cut to zero. What's the point?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u131	The weather, Mr. Dunchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u132	The point in environmental protection and in the world is preventative activity. It is, first of all, to map what is most meaningful to protect it, the rest to let it go for logging, so that companies can work and have predictability. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And we ask you, will you map these woods so that we can protect them, and the rest of us can free them for logging, to be able to work in them?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u133	Thank you, Mr. Dunchev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u134	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dunchev, if you had listened carefully, you would understand that the process of mapping continues. Unfortunately, your speech was a bad testimonial to your work because this response was cooked by employees who were your subordinates, Mr. Dunchev, and followed your policy and nothing different. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Or it wasn't working during the office, I don't know what you and Professor Bozukov have done, I'm not working with anyone, I'm running a coalition agreement that's been signed by everyone here in this room that supports the government, and we're working in that direction. The working...?! I don't know how it works or who works with what. What I want to tell you is that we will continue in this direction, which is recorded in the coalition agreement, and everything that is related to the mapping of forests will continue. What I would like to say in particular is that there is a forest advisory board coming, I will make a broad public discussion because the order of Minister Bosukov has been taken without consulting either ecologists or wood processors or citizens or professional circles. However, I am now initiating and the coming days and weeks will be made such a broad public discussion with all interested parties, including MPs, at which to make a final decision whether this order is useful or harmful. But otherwise the mapping of the forests will continue, and that is a fact. The preservation and preservation of the Bulgarian forests and afforestation and all other forestry activities are extremely pressing and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Executive Agency of Forests, which is still under the Ministry's hat, will fulfil its obligations, which are scheduled by law. If this is your testimonial for her work, which you said you didn't understand, but these were your employees, we'll have a more serious conversation with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u135	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Dunchev will read the shorthand. In the manner of keeping what claims you have on me, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, but I think we are still not allowing some MPs to move from one parliamentary group to another parliamentary group. If Mr. Dunchev feels better there and Mrs. Zornitsa Stratieva takes care of his spiritual growth, let it be known that he is there rather than in the ranks of the Change, because the fact is that NGOs work well, but in the end maybe someone should explain whether there is an investigation of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u137	Mr. Stoinev, thank you. Members of the National Assembly may, however, sit in other places and not the parliamentary groups designated in principle. There has been no formal request for exit, so things continue as they are. The next question is from the MP Vladimir Marinov concerning checks carried out by the employees of the Forests Executive Agency in the country and specifically for the transported wood from the municipal forests of the municipality of Hisar and measures taken in 2021 and until now on 2022. Here you are, Mr. Marinov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! My question relates to something extremely important for the sector, which, of course, was also the subject of publications and broadcasts on BNR and on BTV. There have been violations in the transport of harvested wood from the municipal forests of the municipality of Hisar, including the fired forest employee. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following question with regard to the Forest Executive Agency, namely: how many and what checks have been carried out by the employees of the Forests Executive Agency in the country in 2021 and at the present time in 2022. What is their finding and a check carried out in the case of transported wood from the municipal forests of the municipality of Hissar? What are the findings and the measures taken and, if you allow, some sub-questions......................................................................................... Who has appointed and when the head of the structure who fired the forester in question and do I understand that the head in question in this case has tolerated the violations found and, if so, what measures have been taken by your ministry? Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u139	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marinov! A little bit of history. In 2021 by employees exercising control over the conservation of forest areas of the Forest Executive Agency and the Regional Forest Directorates, appointed forest protection officers to state enterprises under art. 163 of the Forests Act and their territorial divisions, appointed employees in municipal forest structures, forest associations, etc. have carried out a total of 510 854 inspections, of which 98 064 are wood extraction sites, 23 414 wood processing and storage facilities, 151 592 These checks identified 16 824 infringements for which 11 214 acts were drawn up to establish administrative infringements. 2384 files were sent to the prosecution and 188 pre-trial proceedings were initiated. In 2021, acts establishing administrative infringements and constant protocols have been found to cut off illegal wood and instrumental acts with non-explainable origin of 20 234 dense cubic metres. In 2021, forest inspectors in the regional forestry directorates carried out a total of 245 341 inspections. 29 174 wood extraction sites, 22 886 sites under art. 206 of the Forest Act, 89,000 vehicles and others. The forest inspectors and the experts in the regional forestry directorates have drawn up 5492 acts to establish administrative violations, or 49% of the generally drawn-up acts in the country under the Forests Act and the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act, which is approximately 5% more than those made up of them in 2020. From the beginning of this year to 6 March, forest inspectors in the regional forestry directorates carried out a total of 42090 inspections. 3877 timber mining sites, 5474 wood processing and storage sites, 14 346 vehicles and others were inspected. During the same period, the illegally chopped wood and machining operations with wood without documents proving its legal origin amounted to 546 cubic metres. m. The forest inspectors and experts in the regional forestry directorates have drawn up 1241 acts establishing administrative violations. As regards the specific case of the transported wood from the municipal forests of the municipality of Hisar, a verification was carried out. Following a signal received on 20 February 2022 through the application "Protected the forest" for significant reduction of quantities of wood when issuing transport tickets was ordered by the Regional Directorate of Forests Plovdiv to carry out an inspection. The same was carried out on 20 and 21 February 2022 by employees of the RFG Plovdiv, and it was found that the signal refers to wood transported by sub-division 113-c, municipal forest territory, not state-owned, owned by the Municipality of Hissar. Following an analysis of the information, it was found that the transport of wood from that department took place between 7 and 20 February 2022. 22 vehicles were issued during that period, of which 20 were headed towards a large local processor. In this regard, the same processor was requested and information was received about the wood imported and the measurements when it entered the site. When comparing the data, a significant discrepancy was found between the measurement of wood and what was done when it was received at the plant and the data by the transport ticket, with the average excess of 12,19 cubic metres per transport ticket, or a total of 243,8 cubic metres. Of all the verified transport tickets, only one did not show any differences in the specified and measured quantity of wood. There was also a detailed field inspection of the sub-section 113-c, owned by the municipal enterprise. The verification did not reveal any breaches of the logging regulations. Two acts for the identification of administrative infringements have been drawn up for the infringements identified in the course of the overall verification. As a result of the inspection of 20 vehicles tickets are addressed District Prosecutor's Office, Plovdiv, and Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, Plovdiv. On the subject. Yes, an employee of the Director of the relevant RFG, who was appointed during the service cabinet, has been fired, and I have taken the liberty of asking the Executive Director of the Forest Agency to fire this Director of the RFG and to restore the staff concerned accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u141	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, I thank you for your comprehensive response. I would like to point out that this is far from an isolated incident. I suppose such checks are going elsewhere, and I ask you to pay attention when practically conscientious employees who are already difficult to find, so to say, to work in public administration to be protected when performing their duties, because otherwise we can condemn entire sectors of failure. I also ask you to be consistent in what you have stated regarding the protection of forests and the yield that we are doing in our country through enhanced control and let things happen before society so that they do not remain unspoken and go in a direction where we have a common understanding of everyone. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u143	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. Would you like the word for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u144	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Marinov, one thing I can guarantee you is that all decisions taken to protect our forest fund and forestry activities will be taken absolutely transparently, including broadcast online, so that all interested parties can see it. This has been the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture since it was taken over by the Bulgarian Socialist Party and its representatives in this ministry. Of course, we will give a shoulder to each of the employees who work in this system. I only hope that I will not be pressured by MPs again to retain the staff of the former governors of GERB, who are extremely valuable, as it turns out. I believe that this pressure will not continue to be put on the leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u145	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. That concludes the questions to you. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. National Representative Mladen Shishkov is absent, so we move on to the questions to the Minister of Electronic Governance Bozidar Bojanov. He's got four questions in total. The first one is from the MP Blagovest Kirilov regarding the termination of the open procedure under the Public Procurement Act with subject: Building, development and guaranteeing support for elements of the national cybersecurity system.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in accordance with a decision of the Chairman of the DAEU of 26 January 2022, a procedure for establishing, developing and guaranteeing support for elements of the national cybersecurity system is hereby terminated. The same was opened by decision of the DAEU of 1 September 2021 and the same contractor was chosen as early as November 2021. From the decision to terminate as reasons are stated Art. 1. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, t. 8 and 9 as well as two secret letters from the DANS. Mr. Minister, my question in this regard is to answer me what significant changes in the terms of the announced order are necessary, which would change the circle of stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u147	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Kirilov. The order was launched and terminated by the State Agency of Electronic Management, which I am not a principal at the time, but what I am aware of and familiar with your question is that what should be reviewed is what parts of the contract should be classified and which should not be classified, on the one hand. The other is related to available components inside the order, for example dropping certain devices for which there is no technical need actually, and last but not least, we are currently evaluating existing licences for some of the technologies that are in the object of the contract, but are available at the Department of Electronic Management. A licensing committee is currently examining this issue so that we actually reduce the scope and not order things that we already have and can use.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u149	Thank you, Mr. Bojanov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. Here, however, we should also ask ourselves the question when the order has already been public and publicly available once, then if we shorten parts of it, wouldn't they actually be the same parts, so does that make sense? Then an analysis should be made as to why it was not classified in the first place as an award. I know that at this time you have not been responsible for the work and activities of DAEW, the question is to have clearer control from now on, more transparency, and with the subsequent award of such an order I will monitor with interest how it will proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u151	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u152	I absolutely agree with the need for more transparency, this is also in the policy of the Ministry. Regarding the issue of the classifications, it has two parties - one is the classification of the job itself, the other is the access to the classified information of the performers, which is directly related to the circle of persons - the contractors and subcontractors. So from this point of view, even if existing procedures are subsequently classified, this benefits in relation to contractors and subcontractors.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u153	Thank you, Mr. Bojanov. We move on to the next question by the MP Blagovest Kirilov regarding the National Health Information System. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in recent days I have received numerous signals that the site his.bg is not available, respectively the so-called green certificates can not be downloaded, which creates an obstacle to the access of citizens to various sites and institutions, as well as to travel abroad. The health information portal is public and is supported by In this regard, I ask you to answer the following question: in the last 6 months, how many interruptions have been reported, what are the reasons for them, and what measures have been taken in this regard by Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u155	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Bojanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u156	Mr. Kirilov, in relation to the fact that the question was still asked perhaps a month and a half ago and its actuality at the moment and the removal of the green certificate may sound exhausted, but I still owe this answer. 65 partial interruptions of access to the public portal his.bg have been recorded in the last six months. Their duration varies between 1 and 9 minutes and the longest of which is 4 hours, which you may be referring to. An automated surveillance system shall be used that records all these interruptions. In practice, they are all related to attacks, a denial of service, what the service does and has, is a contract for Ddos protection with one of the best global providers of this service. What causes some of these temporary stops of operation is the period of switching from inactive protection mode to active protection mode when an attack is detected. I know, I have personally informed myself on the topic of the engineers of the service sometimes work quite outside the working time with the provider of the problemshooting service, a small part of which were in the configuration of the devices, and the significant part that contributed to the larger interruptions, in fact, at the supplier, but they have already been removed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u157	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. Let us recall that the travel certificates are still needed abroad, so this topic is up-to-date. On the other hand, the system itself was also reminded that initially it had to be built on four lots with European funding, but then it was reassigned to the internal construction of the Service and respectively financed in another order. Here we should review what the technical specifications and parameters of the order are and whether it is currently performing them and whether it will continue to perform them in this way in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u159	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u160	Dear Mr. Kirilov, in connection with the amendments to the Law on Electronic Governance in 2019 under art. 7c is awarded by the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Health. The contract shall be executed at all its points of service. What we have committed under the coalition agreement is to implement the model of art. 7c to make this process more transparent, more predictable and clearer to society.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to the next question again by the National Representative Blagovest Kirilov on the implementation of contract No RD-14-253 of 23 December 2019 concluded between NHIF and Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in recent days, I have received numerous signals that the plan for 2022 lacks many of the activities to be carried out under contract No RD-14-253 of 23 December 2019 concluded between the National Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health and Services. This is evident from the edited performance plan for 2022 provided by Failure to comply with the contract commitments made by the party of the Ministry of Information will prevent the operation of the electronic systems in the NHIF and will impose the choice of another contractor for their implementation. In this regard, do I ask the answers to the questions available to me, with the possibility of fulfilling its obligations under the contract in relation to the established schedule plan for the performance of the activities in 2022? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u163	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u164	Mr. Kirilov, the quoted contract is framework. This requires and thus provides that the contractor and the contracting entity agree on a timetable for the next year's activities. The Graphic Plan is drawn up at the request of the contracting authority, i.e. the National Health Insurance Fund and the Office of Information and Service (SSC) does not have a direct impact on its content. In this sense, the dropouts, two of them that I am familiar with, one of them is due to a technical error by the NHIF, which has already been removed. The other is on the proposal of the contractor in order to further detail the business processes, that is, it has not dropped out, but has been delayed by a short time before the signing of the relevant graphic plan. The relevant graphic plan, even before its signature, each year On the basis of the above, the team of the Service of Information confirmed to me that it has the opportunity to fulfil its obligations under the contract not only on the basis of the established graphic plan on a proposal from the National Health Insurance Fund, but also in accordance with all the regulatory requirements.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u165	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. In relation to the contract, the plan must be rewritten by 31 December each year for the following year and must be agreed in advance and then signed accordingly. In this case, there is information that the NHIF has not received a schedule of notes from the Service of Information to be agreed by the end of the year. In addition, since the contract was concluded in 2019, the additional projects are in principle valued in their implementation when they start to take place. In this year, it was requested that they be valued in advance and included in the schedule, which also led to the dropping of some of them, as there was no way to clarify the business processes. At the same time, however, the money that has been set aside is according to a graphics plan, that is, it can be reached that there will be no possibility of financing additional projects and thus they will not be able to be implemented. There is also no report on the activities what is included as hours, as man hours, as craftsmanship, respectively there is no way for these reports to go to the Court of Auditors, to ADFI and others without being returned. I think we need to look a lot deeper here and do a much deeper analysis before we pass such gaps in contracts with a light hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u167	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Would you like the word for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister? No. And the last question to Minister Bojanov is about a public procurement for the construction, implementation and maintenance of an integrated communication system for interaction between the teams of Emergency Medical and Hospitals and opening of new local points to the established network when necessary for the needs of the Ministry of Health. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, on 21 February 2022 a procedure was opened for the establishment, implementation and maintenance of an integrated communication system for interaction between the teams of Emergency Medical and Hospitals and the opening of new local points to the established network when necessary for the needs of the Ministry of Health. In this regard, have the answers been verified for existing solutions to perform the same functions at a significantly lower price? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u169	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u170	Mr. Kirilov, the said order is in practice an order of the Ministry of Health, which is awarded again according to the order of art. 7c of the Law on Electronic Management of "Information Service" JSC. I did get to know the details of the announcement. What needs to be built on this order is actually software on a defined network that does not fully match the short description at the beginning of the order, which is a deficit that I have assigned to be addressed and corrected so that it becomes clear exactly what the scope of the initial description is. In this sense, there are ready solutions for this, they are on the software market of a defined network, and we expect candidates for the order in question to offer the best price. That price in the notice is indicative and if there is a supplier who can provide it at half or at a lower price, it will be welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u171	Thank you, Mr. Bojanov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. I think it did not give too much clarity to what solutions there are, since, given that the price is indicative, but it is, if it is tens of times greater than what the solutions are worth, together with their putting into service, is a slightly strange order from............................................................................. Because there must be transparency in the field of electronic management, there must be compatibility between systems and integration between them. Most of all, they are effective for citizens, businesses and the institutions that use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u173	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I very much like the speed at which you ask yourself questions and answer each other, short and clear. That concludes the questions to Minister Bojanov. Thank you, Mr. Bojanov, for participating in parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov, who will answer 99 questions if he succeeds by 2:00. We begin with the first question by MP Mustafa Sali Karadayiy about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One clarification before I ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u176	I don't think it's 99, based on my guess, based on Mr. Rashkov's claims, they're probably about 20,000.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u177	But it's officially 99.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u178	Yes, the imports are 99 and will continue for each particular case. But let's come to the specific question, as we have a specific one today, and the rest of us will come in handy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u179	Here you are, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Minister, on 8 July 2021 in the town of Aytos, Mr. Behchet Emurlov, Municipality President of the Youth DPS Aytos, Vice-President of the Municipal Council, Aytos, a candidate for MP, has been called twice in the RU in one day for the distribution of agitating materials and training using a tablet with a simulator for machine voting, and a protocol has been drawn up for him. Then he got used to it a few more times. The actions taken in our opinion against Mr. Behchet Emurlov and the attitude of the District Department are equivalent to those of a criminal figure. This undermines the authority of Mr. Emurlov and creates psychological tensions that affect him and his team negatively during the election campaign. At the presentation of his initiative for a civil petition in the European Parliament to the media, he said that after these shares, part of his team has refused to participate in the election campaign. My question is: on what legal basis has he been called to the District Department, Aytos, and what is the presence of sufficient data to have a warning protocol drawn up for him? Has the prosecution been informed and what are the further actions on the case described and what is the final result if it is finished? And in addition, when and who raised Mr. Emurlov's immunity because, as a candidate for the MP, he has immunity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u181	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Rashkov, within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, the Political Party GERB considers it its great political achievement obviously that it would ask me 100 questions, 300 questions, 20 thousand questions, something I am not worried about. [[DRF lines]] If he wants a million questions to come up with...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u183	It's DPS, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u184	DPS, pardon. ...to bring them in here and waste parliamentary time. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Have a little patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u185	Please, no yelling from the auditorium, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u186	Mr. Chairman, I would like to say on the occasion of the statement of a Member of Parliament, who, apparently, according to Mr. Karadaye, behaved himself in the media this morning, lied that I did not appear to be in parliamentary control. I just want to say for the sake of the audience and my respect for you that my appearance here has written answers that I have given to your questions, their number is 74. There's law enforcement, there's administration in parliament, and everyone can see if what's said is true. So let us still keep a good tone, and when we evaluate someone in the media, at least tell the truth. I don't think we're infallible, but let's not lie there that I wasn't in parliamentary control. This is only from the moment I am a regular Minister of the Interior. About Aytos. What, though, do I notice in these hundreds of matters that are raining down that the representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms refer to the two names of the people? In the Republic of Bulgaria there are three names of the people who own, fatherly and last name, and point to two and somewhere we find it difficult to find out who these people are. On the question of Aytos here is Behchet Emurlov. What answer can I give to what Mr. Karadaye put? On 7 July 2021 around 21,40 we have a signal in the respective District Police Department, we know the name of the person, for unlawful acts, I stress this, in the village of Karageorgievo, related to the electoral process. The signal refers to two persons, including this person Mr. Karadaye asked about. Yes, he is indeed an activist of the DPS, but does not put him in any privileged position compared to any other Bulgarian citizen. There is a file on this case, dear Mr. Karadayi, at the Aytos District Department, that is, no one hid the actions of the police authorities when they had to take corrective action. This is registered police work, as is the usual activity of the police in our country. Second, these verification actions were under the control of the District Prosecutor's Office, which, in the case of the investigation, gave specific instructions. This is also a practice in prosecutorial investigative work. On 8 July, the sender of the alert provided additional information on these two persons, however, he specified that the person was not originally named Emurlov, who was asked by Mr Karadayi, and another person named, that is, the verification is also directed there and indicates from which place it was inhabited. The latter was called, of course, to be able to clarify what is the signal, which is also normal practice. In conclusion, there is no legal obstacle in carrying out a verification by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and a candidate for an MP, even if it is from the DPS, to be asked about circumstances for which clarification is required, including on the basis of an instruction from a prosecutor who are mandatory for enforcement under the law. It is true that Mr. Emurlov has immunity as a candidate and so on, but this immunity you all know what it is about, and not to be asked if it is true or not. Thanks to this verification, and to this issue in practice, the verification is directed in another direction and is not in depth towards it. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] And another kind of terminology. If you like, you don't get used to it, you don't get used to it, you don't get used to it, you can get used to it, but here's the summoning.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u187	The weather, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u188	Yeah, I'll keep going if I have to.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u189	Okay, maybe in the back. Mr. Karadaye, for a line, please. Please, fellow Members, don't make a fuss about this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, as far as I know, including Mr. Emurlov, have not received subpoenas, but have been summoned by some officials from the Ministry of Interior, but in art. 29 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, where are the fundamental rights 32: The personal life of the citizens is inviolable; art. 38: No one can be persecuted or restricted in his rights because of his convictions; art. 57: The fundamental rights of citizens are inextricable. Mr. Minister, you are probably aware that today in the district of Burgas are called again, not called upon are all those people for whom we have asked questions to you....................................and the young people and the elderly, including Mr. Behchet Emurlov.... How can we understand this as discrimination on the basis of political beliefs?! On what grounds, even today, they are called to the police, because even to you, Minister, it should be clear that all legal deadlines for investigations have expired and if there were evidence of violations of the law, they should already be in court. So, Minister, that is why we have asked for from 29 July when I started, from 8 December, from 15 December, and I continue to ask for the documents for each of the specific cases, so that we can make an assessment of the actions of the Ministry of Interior authorities when the police acted legally and when the police acted militia based on your political instructions. And one more thing for the finale, Mr. Secretary. You know I didn't forget you were chasing me during the election? And I will ask this question, but this question for me will finally be about persecutions after we go on the list of Bulgarian citizens, who were being bullied on the basis of their political beliefs. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u191	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u192	I won't be able to do it in two minutes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u193	A little more, I gave everyone a little more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u194	Our law, honourable Members, provides for several forms of summoning not to be called upon. The summoning can be carried out both by subpoena and by phone, so if your member, MP or deputy candidate has been called over the phone, it is a perfectly legal form to provide one person who has to appear on one occasion or another in the respective police department. So don't look here for the room under the volley and read when you're about to ask a MP who's a lawyer and knows more than you... [[Noise and lines from DPS: You're not a lawyer!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u195	Please don't shout! I'll make a note if you continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u196	...in this area. Secondly, you are quoting the Constitution, however, as the Devil's Gospel did. Read art. 30 of the Constitution and you will see that there really are restrictions that provide and guarantee the rights of the Bulgarian citizens, but then there is one addition at the end of the sentence of the Order: That's what you read. You are lawmakers and you must know the law very well. As far as the specific question is concerned, I will tell you that this file, which is there for your municipal councillor, my respects, has actually been carried out, of course, under the management of the prosecution and the file has been reported, and has been decreed by the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, with which it refused to initiate pre-trial proceedings. This case file, dear Mr. Karadaye, I do not say kadajina, I tell you respectfully Mr. Karadayi, this file is in the prosecution, I do not have access to it and if you wish so much to protect your municipal councillor, contact the relevant prosecution. Do I have time, Mr. Chairman, to ask Mr. Karadye how you run your party that commits crimes in connection with the election process? [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] This is where I pulled out a few...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u197	Now, Mr. Rashkov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u198	...several cases I've filed for convictions of individuals to whom you have given funds, and these persons are currently indicted and convicted. Thank you for your attention. [[Replys from DPS. Claps by "Keep On Changing."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u199	Mr. Rashkov, wait a minute. In general, in parliamentary control, however, the MPs are asking the ministers, not vice versa, so I would like to take this into account. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Wait a minute, we'll get to that, and there are already enough questions where these topics can be developed enough. I think we should try to contain our nerves and run the controls so that people understand why we're doing this. So, please, colleagues, let's not call from the House, there are many opportunities here to say what has to be said. Would you like to conduct yourself? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u200	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman, to you. You should have paid attention to the Minister that we are still a parliamentary republic and the parliamentary control over the executive power is of the National Assembly, not vice versa. And one more thing to remind him of Mr. Minister. As of July until now, Mr. Minister, I've been waiting for my papers. Whether you will be a minister for three days, three weeks, three months, three years, thirty years your time will still run out, but these young people on whom you are repressing, they will come after us, and on the grounds of art. 111 You are obliged to present those documents which I have asked of you to judge. And not from this point on from the National Assembly's platform to make suggestions, because, as I have said more than once, I will say it again, the 200 cases that you claim to have reached the procedure and have the appropriate order, there things are okay and the procedure will be carried out, all those over 20 thousand other cases, however, we appreciate them, Mr. Minister, as a moving fascism in our homeland. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u201	Mr. Karadayi, I can say that you have slightly abused the procedure, but hopefully this will end the exchange of such assessments and focus on the real issues that are to be asked and answered. The next question is from MP Mukaddes Nalbant on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Here you go, Mrs. Nalbant.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister of the Interior, before I ask the question, I would like to include two things here. Indeed, in support of what Mr Mustafa Karadayi said, those present in this House of Members of the National Assembly will turn the words and say they are representatives of the people. So they're broadcast, they're chosen, and they have the authority here. Ministers, yes, they have their powers, but outside this building, and here they answer the questions that the people ask through their representatives and the people are sovereign. In addition, for the two names, yes, there are really three names in Bulgaria, but your second name I do not remember, Minister Rashkov. As all present colleagues are represented by first name and last name. The absence of the middle name doesn't make them different people. My question is: on 11 July 2021 in Borovets district in the town of Kardzhali Mr. Ayhan Sally, an activist of the DPS, has signed a protocol that he will not participate in the transportation of people to the electoral premises. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions: what is the legal basis and what is the expression of the existence of sufficient data............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I note that the questions asked are related to possible unlawful actions by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Questions do not affect the personal rights or interests of citizens. I would also like to add that on the same day I was in the town of Kardzhali and we learned about this incident immediately, but as people who deal with politics in legal and legitimate frameworks, we decided to put the issue in a legitimate way. Thank you in advance for the answer I hope will be correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Nalbant. Mr. Secretary, come in. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Nalbant, yes, it is true that when we say: Baden-Baden, we know what this is about. [[Laughter]] But when we say Ayhan Sally is an activist of the DPS, I don't think it's the same. And that is why I quite rightly paid attention to the fact, because sometimes we find it difficult to find the face, especially when there are faces with the same names. It is for this reason that, as in my previous reply, I have pointed out, and I will now stress, we can find it difficult to examine a particular case in view of the individual. This is your case, Madam Vice-President of the Bulgarian Parliament. I do not dispute that all Members of the House represent the Bulgarian people because I was here years ago. In this regard, I fully agree, but then, when the MPs raise incorrect questions, I do not think that these incorrect questions are put by the Bulgarian people to the Bulgarian minister. We owe each other mutual respect to be correct about each other. Only then can we serve the Bulgarian people, not with insinuations.. I do not say this on the occasion of your question. I'm talking in general. You ask for a specific person with two names, and now I'm going to say: I can't be 100% sure. I will give you an answer for this person that you are asking about, but what we have been able to verify shows the following: You're an intelligent person and I think you can write something different than what's in the form, so to speak. And that is why, because it is blank what you are asking me, and I will answer you blankly from now on to pass the parliamentary control, and it is as follows: if you have evidence of pressure and harassment by officials of the Ministry of Interior before and on the day of election on 11 July, this means that there is sufficient reason to assume that a crime has been committed under Chapter Three, Section III of the Penal Code. I am explaining, i.e. these are the so-called crimes against the political rights of citizens, the trade in votes. In this regard, you have misspelled your question, and this also applies to the next ones that I will answer, because the Interior Minister cannot carry out an investigation, even if there is such an infringement. And that is why I quite rightly want to tell you that the competent authority in this case, which can verify if there is pressure, is harassment and so on, is the relevant body of the judicial authority, which is the prosecution and the relevant investigative service. In the Ministry of Interior, we cannot carry out an investigation under the law. Otherwise, I also asked for the summer, if there is really such data in which police authorities have exceeded their powers, I am ready to look at them, or if I have to, I will send them to the prosecution to form proceedings and, of course, we will take appropriate treatment. And finally,.. for the production of the protocol. Yes, then, when signals are received at the Ministry of Interior in connection with the election and election process, which suggest that it is most likely precisely about such activity aimed at buying and selling votes, we are obliged to take appropriate measures. For this person, there was obviously preliminary data in the relevant service and a warning protocol was drawn up for him. The composition and service of such a document to a person for whom relevant data have been received is a completely lawful activity, and I do not see why we are wasting our time asking ourselves whether the duty of the Ministry of Interior officer to deliver a protocol when such data is available is fulfilled. But if you want... Do we have time, Mr. Chairman, or am I running out of time?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u205	No, in the back, Mr. Minister, you might be able to add. I see Mrs. Nalbant will take a stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u206	Yes, I have something else to say, to show you sooner.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u207	Thanks. Mrs. Nalbant, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister Rashkov, when it comes to searching for a man with two names and when you gave him the signing protocol, you were able to find him. No problem is the same person as you found him then by two names, to find him now, or to give an answer rather to your part of your competences and powers................ what was the legal basis and what is the presence of sufficient data?................................................................... Yes, the prosecution may answer, but in this part, the first part of my question concerns your powers. I was so hoping for a more complete answer, Mr. Minister. I think that here in this Chamber, all present and MPs, and representatives of the executive, represent themselves, represent the job they perform, and this must be done with due dignity. Dear Minister, this is not so insulting to me, but I find it difficult to hear from the teaching tone that you are demonstrating here from this tribune. I think with that tone you may be more irritating to people than anyone else, and I am asking you for a more dignified and more manly attitude in the answers you give. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Nalbant. Mr. Minister, do you want to do a douche bag? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u210	Dear Mrs. Nalbant, dear MPs! It seems to me that my tone of voice does not know if you will share is much more respectful, much more respectful than your leader's tone. I'm sorry to say that. He uses such a edifying tone all the time. Teaches, even speculates with my family, calling Rashkovism the actions of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, and also uses, if you notice, Mrs. Nalbant, the fasification of the actions. If that's the respectable tone, if that's the respectable tone you're talking about, I think you have the wrong address. Take it to your leader. And secondly, Mrs. Nalbant, since we, yes, well, represent the interests of the people, of the people, of course, of you, of course, my respects, is it respectful to the people to try to buy votes to take some place of parliament here in this Chamber?! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" - replica by DPS: "Hey, you piece of shit!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u211	Mr. Minister, colleagues! Wait a minute! Indeed, as Mr. Vigenin said a little... [[National Representative Mustafa Karadaye wants the floor.]] I'll give it to you, Mr. Karadayi, of course, As Mr. Vigenin said a little earlier, let's try to keep a good voice. Each course of any personal attack leads to an answer in the same direction. This will not lead to anything constructive and creative and, Mr Karadayi, your parliamentary group will again not get the answers it has been demanding for so long. [[Voices from DPS.]] Colleagues, I really call on you, including you, Mr. Minister, to keep the good tone, to respond specifically and precisely to the questions raised, and to avoid personal attacks on the Minister when putting the questions. It's the only way to preserve the dignity of this tribune. And, Mr. Kulkov, if I'm not mistaken about your name, I hope I'm not mistaken, please don't keep yelling, including making insulting remarks. [[(Noise and lines from ……]] I've made a remark to the Minister, and I'm making a comment to you. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] He has not addressed you with the words that you have addressed him. In the next call, I will impose the appropriate punishment on you. For a procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Karadayi, if you still wish to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u212	Yes, thank you. Mr. Chairman, as you have noticed, we are not getting answers to our questions. When asked, what is the expression of sufficient data? Mr President, in such cases as you notice it and say it to the Members of the National Assembly, pay attention to the ministers that they are obliged to answer the questions of the Members of the National Assembly. As for the teaching lecture, I thank Mr. Rashkov and listen carefully to him. And that is why, Mr. Rashkov, we, on the grounds of art. 111 of the Rules of Procedure, I will now read it, we have requested documents to see in which particular case the police exceeded their powers and in which particular cases acted legally and legally. But you, violating the Constitution and the Rules of the National Assembly, not presenting documents to us, cannot expect our questions to contain the factology that you should have presented to us. You know that we have requested the documents for these specific cases, documents that we have not received so far. So Art. 111, at the moment, Mr Minister, I would just like to read it to you in part and remind you of it: "All public authorities and officials are obliged to provide the necessary information and documents, even when the information is state or official secrecy. The existence of administrative, judicial and other proceedings before an authority does not prevent the provision of the information and documents. " So if you had submitted the documents, then our claims and assessments would have been based on facts and documents. Mr. Chairman, I would ask you for every particular case, when there is no response from ministers here, to make a remark to the ministers that they violate the Constitution and the Rules of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u213	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. The next question, colleagues, is from the MP Yuseyin Weyselov on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Mr. Weyselov, come in. You have two minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was born in 1993, and I remember very well how old people told me about those dark years before 1990, when the militia broke into people's homes and put pressure and harassment on them and when Mr. Sergei Yankov contacted me and explained to me what happened last year - July, in his house, I returned to those dark memories, in those dark days. In this regard, with the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the basis of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the following question: on what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings the said search has been carried out, has the prosecution been informed of the search carried out and what are the further actions on the case described? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u215	Thank you, Mr. Weyselov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u216	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Weyselov, I'm sorry you're forcing me to answer your same questions almost identically, but I have no other option. I want you to ask me a variety of questions that will benefit the entire community. It's the same thing, it's just giving orders from above, and underneath it's marching, and that's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u217	Mr. Minister, if I may be specific to the matter. Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u218	Now, somewhere we went, I don't know where there, and it came out of the question, but here's the answer. For pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on the election day of 11 July in the home, the claims of your municipal councillor in the village of Radanovo, not to be mistaken, a search has been carried out, I pay attention. You are interested on what legal basis, on which pre-trial proceedings and so on, and whether the prosecution has been informed and what is going on next. The concepts used, I will return to them again, for actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior means that you believe that crimes have been committed by officials of the Ministry of Interior, related to the exercise of political rights of citizens under Chapter Three, Section III of the special part of the Penal Code. Thus asked, your question is not within the competence of the Minister of Interior, but of the relevant structure of the independent judiciary. You can safely, in the presence of such data for pressure and harassment, contact the prosecution. In addition, if you actually have such data for bullying, there is one text, now someone will say that I am reading lectures, but I am simply being forced to............................................................................. 205 of the Code of Criminal Procedure obliges you to provide them to the authorities of pre-trial proceedings in the judiciary. I wonder why we're wasting plenary time here and you didn't send them to the D.A. in due time?! The second paragraph of the reply to Iankov. No search has been carried out against him, dear Mr. Weyselov, because a search is carried out in person, but at the same time Mr. Yankov has not been searched. Why are you asking for a search, as such an action has not been taken against him? Now, on July 8th, Polish Trembesh received operational information that three individuals had an impact on the electoral process. The people agreed to vote in return for payment for the benefit of the DPS. That's the signal. And now you want from what we have received in the Ministry of Interior that someone influences other citizens to vote not for this party they want, but for you, for the DPS, you ask the Interior Minister, smearing his own political activity there?! On this occasion, case number 319 P-91-10 has been registered on this alert since 2021 and the material has been reported to the Prosecutor's Office, where there are No 4451 from 2021. You can ask there as well. The formed police teams have checked all three persons and have actually entered the commercial premises of Iankov. There were found notebooks in which they were written... there were lists of persons with first names, multiple numbers against each of these persons. This notebook was seized in accordance with the law with appropriate protocol. That's how it's done, that's how it works. All materials collected on the three persons were reported to the Veliko Tarnovo District Prosecutor's Office, which was delivered by a decree refusing to initiate pre-trial proceedings. This is the result of the work. The prosecution did not consider that there was sufficient evidence to initiate the criminal trial. So so far, I can't see that there's been any violation by the Ministry of the Interior employees. And with such questions, which only contain reproaches against the employees of the Ministry of Interior, you do nothing to assist this ministry in doing its work by conscience and by law. And one more thing I'd like to say if I had the time, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u219	We're two minutes out of time, Mr. Secretary. Eventually in the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u220	I'll end it here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u221	Yes, thank you. Mr. Weyselov, would you like a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister of the Interior, it is clear to us that the answer will be the same to these 99 questions. This was clear to us before we asked the questions. I just want to say one thing: in order to conduct a search in someone's home, permission is required. I am aware that the Ministry of Interior can carry out an inspection without the consent of a person or a judicial authorisation, but only when this person is suspected of a serious crime. I don't see anything like that in this case. I've also requested documents on this particular case. My question was introduced on February 18, 2022, and now it is March 18, 2022. One month of his entry, and I still don't have the documents on this particular case. I want to finish with this: do you know when the DPS was created and why the DPS was created? Because someone had to bring democracy to Bulgaria. [[Laughter]] No, it's not funny! That's right. [[Relations from the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov.]] Yeah, that's right. I assure you that we representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will continue to defend our rights, our freedoms and our identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u223	Thank you, Mr. Weyselov. Mr. Minister, for the coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Weyselov, you claim that the search was done that it was intended to be a serious crime to proceed with such an act. That's not true. See there in art. 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure doesn't say that. But anyway, let's not fall... You'll say we're gourds and so on. I would like to ask you, you are a younger person: how do you think if, in connection with the electoral process, crimes are committed, exactly as we have checked in the election period and on the election day itself, when the Ministry of Interior, in order to prevent such criminal activity under art. 167 and the following of the Penal Code, do you think it is moral to ask me questions when we have cases in which there are convictions for buying and selling votes in your favor to the DPS? In a moment I will take a picture and show you what money we are talking about, and I will show it to the entire Bulgarian people to see the Bulgarian people who is asking me such questions? Who?! The one who does the crime is asking me questions?! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u225	Mr. Karadaye, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's the way it's supposed to be. Mr. President, it would be good to remind the ministers that here the questions under the Constitution and the Rules of the National Assembly put them by the MPs, not by the ministers, on the one hand. On the other hand, we will get to the point of asking: is it moral for the court to declare the police's actions illegal? But the election goes by and the court rules after the election. I don't think it's moral for the court to declare the police's actions illegal. Remind Mr. Minister that too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u227	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. [[Applause from DPS.]] Mr. Weyselov, the next question is from you again. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister of the Interior, Dear Members of the National Assembly! In the municipality of Gorna Oryahovitsa, Veliko Tarnovo District, during the election campaign for the parliamentary elections on 11 July 2021, a search of the home of Mr. Mitko Stanev, who is a municipal adviser was carried out again. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the following question: on what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings the above-mentioned search was carried out? Has the prosecution been informed of the search and what is the further action of the described case?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u229	Thank you, Mr. Weyselov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u230	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Weyselov, we have heard the question about citizen Mitko Stanev, municipal councillor, there is harassment again, there is pressure, I will not repeat. It's embarrassing for me to say that with this kind of data, I have to... The laws order this, not me, to send these materials to the relevant prosecutor's office. The Ministry of Interior is not conducting an investigation into police authorities. In accordance with art. 194 of the Code of Criminal Procedure such an investigation is only within the authority of investigators of the National Investigation Service. So I want to, and besides, since I don't have that kind of evidence of harassment and pressure, I can't respond fully. I wish I could, but that's impossible. And so, please, go to the D.A.'s office. You have a favorite Attorney General, send him the materials, he'll do your job. And one more thing, this is the second time I'm gonna say this, a house isn't searched, it's searched, so change the terminology a little bit. That's why I'm saying that your city councilman Mitko Stanev hasn't been searched. He's not searched! In his home, no investigative action has been carried out, and this is why I accept that by exporting false data with a question to Parliament, the purpose of deliberately embarrassing the Ministry of Interior officials and damaging their authority in society. In conclusion, in the District Department of Gorna Oryahovitsa, notice now, no pre-trial proceedings for crimes under Chapter III, Section III of the special part of the Penal Code, that is, under the heading Crime against the political rights of citizens, Alush-Verisha, purchase, trade in votes of Bulgarian citizens. So please keep these things in mind! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u231	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u232	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u233	Mr. Weyselov is entitled to a line before then, if he wishes. Here you go, Mr. Weyselov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u234	Thank you, Lord Chairman. Mr. Minister of the Interior, it is clear to me that there is no answer to these questions. And really, if you don't have an answer, it would be appropriate to apologize to these people, even though with this apology this militia will not be forgotten, but still an excuse I think you owe them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u235	Thank you, Mr. Weyselov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u236	It's totally unnecessary!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u237	Mr. Karadaye for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, I will address you. Mr. Chairman, please pay attention to my beloved minister, because all the state authorities are our favorite, no matter who lends them. Our beloved minister! However, remind him that on the basis of art. Art. 111, Art. 137 of him we asked for the documents and he was obliged and still obliged to present them to us to determine whether we would refer to other authorities for the actions of the militia or not. Because I am convinced that the Bulgarian police would never break the law. But when political instructions are given to depoliticized police and the police are actively involved in the elections against political opponents of government officials, it becomes political militia. And remind him of that to the Minister! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u239	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Mr. Hayri Sadakov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u240	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is to the Interior Minister on action and pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign on election day. On 11 July 2021, in the village of Lovezci this village is a village in the municipality of Madan, Smolyan district, a search of the mayor Rukie Kabadalieva is carried out, and the search in question is quite detailed, which I will address in my question a little later, after hearing the answer to the call for violation of the law and a warning protocol is drawn up. On what legal basis, Minister, and on which pre-trial proceedings has the above-mentioned search been carried out? Has the prosecution been informed of the search and what further action has been taken on the case described? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u241	Thank you, Mr. Sadakov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u242	In one way, honourable Mr President and honourable Members, it seems that when a Member of the National Assembly asks a question, in a completely different way sometimes is the answer that I will now give. First, I will repeat what I am going to repeat for a long time today in the likeness of Mr. Karadayi. The first thing you ask, dear Mr. Sadakov, is for action, for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior. And I would say again that you are not addressing an addressee who can solve the matter, but that question should be addressed to the relevant prosecutor or rather a signal to be sent there. This is how the Bulgarian laws are commanded because the Ministry of Interior cannot investigate employees of the Internal Affairs. They are investigated by the investigators of the National Investigation Service, for which there should be an act of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, I cannot say there is or there is no action for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior. Thus, your naked statement is obviously only intended to bring the Interior Minister here to answer a question that you need to address to another state authority, to waste plenary time instead of looking at bills in plenary and so on. In addition, I would like to say something quite well-meaning in this way, although you are called a Movement for Rights and Freedoms, you are not defending the rights and freedoms of your sympathizers, municipal councillors, mayors and so on, as you address their problems to an authority that cannot answer them. Second of all, you should contact the D.A., and I can tell you again. As far as Mrs. Kabadalieva is concerned, there has been absolutely no pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior. In this locality around the elections were received signals in the department of the Ministry of Interior in Madan related to the electoral process. The signal refers to two persons among whom she is also Mrs. Kabadalieva, the mayor's deputy. On the occasion of this signal from another citizen, of course, a file has also been registered in the respective police department. This file has a corresponding number. You go there, you go to your polls area, they'll tell you. If you want, I will tell you........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Otherwise, we will never be able to solve crimes against citizens' political rights in connection with buying and selling votes. And we've got dozens of cases, we've got convicts. In other words, someone who has money pays people, probably with some remuneration, more or less, and people are then responsible, and criminally, for doing such a service to a political party. And the political party has no responsibility. On the contrary, it takes responsibility from the Interior Minister why it reveals such a category of criminal events. That sounds a little cynical to me, by the way. Next, these material after verification has been reported to the competent prosecution. The prosecution shall rule by a decree refusing to initiate pre-trial proceedings. In other words, it considered that there was insufficient data to initiate pre-trial proceedings to begin the actual criminal trial. It's the truth! But on the subject, I will also say something else to make it clear to our viewers and listeners and to the entire room. By the way, the D.A. refused... It is requested by the Prosecutor's Office to provide these materials. The requests are made by Mrs. Kabadalieva herself, for which you engage the Chamber and ask the Minister: give documents. And since the materials are not in the Minister of Interior, but in the respective prosecution that was pronounced there, it archived them and stored them, but the prosecutor who observed this inspection refused to provide Mrs. Kabadalieva with any documents. And why do you want me to present these documents to you when the prosecution has not provided them, if there is an injured person, to Kabadalieva herself?! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u243	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a line, Mr. Sadakov? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u244	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In his reply, the Minister in chronological order gave so much information about everything that happened with the examination of Mrs. Kabadalieva. And you ask why we ask questions from this tribune. Because our task is to represent the public interest, to seek answers to what people are interested in in this case from the village of Lovez, from Madan Municipality and from the whole region. Because Mrs. Kabadalieva is mayor's deputy and elected mayor since 2015, I think, with impeccable past, with outstanding authority not only in her village, but in the whole region, of outstanding respect and respect as a public figure. And yet she was the subject of a search, so detailed that to preserve and preserve her dignity, I won't mention how detailed it was here from the stands. And it's become public record! It is made public that, once the search has been carried out and a protocol has been drawn up, there is no grounds for bringing an accusation. That's public knowledge, too. But it's public knowledge that there's also a warning protocol there, on the spot, right after the search. On what grounds has she been warned, although it has been verified and there is no reason to press charges on this signal that we do not know neither by whom it is nor where this signal is coming from?! And that's why we're asking you, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have carried out all these actions. Who is this signal from, what is it, on what grounds that we embarrassed Mrs. Kabadalieva in front of the whole public?! That's why we're asking you our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u245	Thank you, Mr. Sadakov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u246	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Saddakov, you are trying to blame the actions of the police officers in connection with something more specifically, the order in which Kabadalieva's personal search was carried out. Yes, it has been done, I have such a reference to myself at the moment, but the action has been carried out in full compliance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure by a person of the same sex and of the same sex. This is required by our law. This is respected! And why this had to be done is the decision of the authorities there on the spot. That is why I have started that signals have been received in this regard for actions aimed at, or an attempt to participate in, such an activity which may at some point qualify as a crime against citizens' political rights. That's why this check has been started. This check has been initiated under the supervision, control and management of the relevant prosecution there. So this wasn't done by police officers on their own. When we listened to you now, it almost appeared that someone wanted to deliberately, knowingly, commit humiliating acts with regard to this woman! There's no such thing. Once again: you ask the Minister for my respect, but I do not have it and I cannot give it to you. However, you may not know that she asked the prosecution for them, but the prosecutor refused to provide them. And now in plenary, you want them from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u247	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tsonev, do you still want a procedure? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, I want this procedure because there are many more questions. I strongly ask you to pay attention to Minister Rashkov on two subjects. Firstly, it is not his job to discuss the policy of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Answers, because he has been doing so for more than an hour in one way or another. Secondly, remind him that crimes against the political rights of citizens, as well as all other crimes, are proven in court and become consummated crimes when there is a verdict. Until then, everyone is innocent until proven guilty. Thirdly, these crimes throughout the Bulgarian transition are done by many Bulgarian citizens and by all political parties. The experience here from this tribune to suggest that this is done by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is simply going to lead to the fact that we will bring out for the entire transition to see how many convicted persons there are, how many charges and how many of them have become judgmental sentences to persons who are not from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. To recall the responsibility is personal. The criminal responsibility for committing a crime is personal. It's not a party, it's not a collective party. These suggestions that are trying to be made here, from this tribune, from the Minister, as you can see, my tone is calm and I want us to try to understand with a calm tone that we want not only those cases that have come as documentation to the prosecution and it has refused or formed, and those that have not reached the prosecution at all, and the signal has proved false. Because there are some. In order to see how the authorities act, what are these false signals; is this not the Kosharev witness calling us, or someone who is an agent, or someone who is a citizen, to carry out checks to intimidate someone? I'm not saying it's over. I'm saying it's an option. We need to figure this out. And no political suggestion. Because I can also harden the tone and say that I can speak well, and I am competent enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u249	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Thank you for your truly peaceful tone. Mr. Karadaye, and you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u250	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Chairman, we've heard from the Minister that dozens of cases have been solved. We heard that in the media too. Again, from the minister and the media, we have heard that these cases are tens of thousands, over 20,000. This is about those other 20,000, not those tens of thousands. This is what you need to remind him of the Minister, because the questions also say what is the purpose of this question: to examine and enlighten everything on the subject. Until now, we have received no response from the Minister. And we've also asked for documents, and we haven't received the documents, Mr. Chairman. In this regard, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have no doubt that we will investigate and highlight each particular case? It doesn't matter when you can in three years, you can in 30 years. We have paid a very expensive price for democracy in our country. It feels like a duty to protect democracy in our country. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u251	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Indeed, all of us here must protect democracy. That's why our constituents chose us. Thank you again. The next question is from Mr. Mumun. Here you are, Mr. Mumeun, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister of the Interior! Mr. Minister, I'm afraid I've had an answer to my question. I'm supposed to be happy, but I'm afraid because you just said something, and I found the exact answer in those things that you said. You said the following: "From above is given an order. " I'm afraid this happened during the election campaigns last year. Someone gave the order and down already machined, so inertially happened all those things that we ask questions about. My question is related to the mayor of the locality of Dolno Sadievo, Madzharovo Municipality, Haskovo District.. Mr. Seidamed Mehmed, who was called and forced to sign a warning protocol. You've given some obvious order and down the chain now the district directorates are getting all the activists, mayors, advisors and looking for something. What were you trying to find? Who should they vote for, honourable MPs from the new party? Who should they vote for in this village? You're clapping with the minister talking about buying votes. You think the mayor takes care of all these people in this place. We're there every day, we hear from each other on the phone at any moment, and they vote for the DPS. What are you saying about buying votes and enjoying the minister's claims? It's not right what you're saying, Minister. I'm not saying there weren't any cases anywhere. Find them, but not so systematized, machined. I won't read the question because you have it in front of you. That's how I develop it, that's how I ask you. Tell me: on what grounds is this mayor being forced to sign a warning protocol? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u253	And thank you, Mr. Mummyun. Mr. Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It's just Mr. Mummyun asked two questions, if I'm not mistaken. One is really about Sayedahmed Mehmed, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u255	Yes, for that face, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u256	And the other one for another person. I don't know, maybe that's two questions from one MP. Okay, I'm not worried about that. Will you allow me, Mr. Chairman, because here some are taking advantage of this for Members of the National Assembly to speak under procedure and concern me personally and personally? What do you want me to do? Should I step out of the room? I don't want to hear anyone bother me here for no reason at all and practice on my name to call me Rashkovism, fascism and so on. If I hear one more word, I would like to apologize, of course, to the other Members of the National Assembly, I will leave the Chamber. [[DPS lines.]] My dignity wouldn't allow me to suffer here. There was even a cynical call from the DPS 15 minutes ago, I put up with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u257	You're absolutely right, Mr. Secretary. I heard that call, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u258	This statement, this tossing is for a court of law, not for anything else! I haven't turned to anyone in such an insulting way! Parliamentary control is to come here and fulfill my duty, as Mr Karadaiye says, to answer questions. They may be stupid, they may be anything, but I will answer those questions. I don't dispute that, but I didn't come here, Karadye, from your parliamentary group to yell insulting things at me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u259	And the answers can be stupid, not just questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u260	They can, yeah. In your opinion, for example, it is taboo to say that you are buying votes in the country. [[DPS lines.]] A moment ago, Mr. Mumeon, I'm going to read now. This is an Agreement which has been concluded, No 23 of 10 June 2021, in the District Court of Madan, where we were just talking. There he is. [[Shows it.]] There was a convicted person who was buying votes for a movement for rights and freedoms. Here's the court order! [[Shows it.]] Anyone can look at that. These acts are public, honourable Members of Parliament, you know that. Now I'm going to give an example that by working on vote-buying checks, when signals come in, we're bound to do it. You're asking me about these particular cases. Now Mr. Mummyun says, "We don't buy votes because it doesn't make sense they vote for us. If you do, say them. " - Behold, I say. This topic will not be taboo. Dear Mr. Tsonev, I want to tell you that I am not only a minister, I am a voter. The assessment of your party and other parties is the work of the Bulgarian voter. You can't run away from this. As much as you'd like to run away to be in white, that can't happen, Mr. Tsonev. Therefore, when you ask me here, I will bring you documents with which I will tell you this: your activists, your supporters, whatever you want, so call them "they have worked during the elections for distortion of the electoral process, for receiving election results that do not meet the attitudes of the Bulgarian voters. You have paid for this money, which is not clear what origins they have! Now to Mr. Mumeon, with the greatest pleasure and attention. You're asking about Dolno Sadievo, Madzharovo Municipality, Haskovo District? Mayor Mehmed, right? I'm not wrong. You think there's been pressure and harassment on this man. Yes, you're asking a question not to repeat so we don't waste parliamentary time. That's how I'm going to answer the first part of the question. I believe that if you have such data, I best say to you: including if you have complaints about it, if this person also presents other documents, testimony, etc., etc., and others, eyewitnesses, please contact the prosecution not me. Because I cannot do anything in such a hypothesis, as I will tell you, I repeat, well-meaningly: the minister cannot investigate his employees, because, for example, the legislator "You" thought that he would be addicted to such a hypothesis. That's why he's got the D.A.'s office and the National Investigation Service investigating them. So that's it. On the other side of your question. In relation to this person, operational data has been obtained. Here's the reference they gave me. This is not something the Minister himself has made up...... about his empathy for illegal acts related to the election process. [[Mister Boyko Rashkov shows a document.]] [[(a line from the MP Mustafa Karadaye: We know how to make it up!]] In relation to the verification carried out in this respect, a warning protocol has actually been drawn up for the purposes of art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act. I have no record of any wrongdoing committed in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u261	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tsonev, please, let's finish. [[Replys from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Yes, after Mr. Mummyun made his cue and perhaps the Minister's backdrop.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u262	Mr. Minister, that's what I'm talking about. You're answering everyone that there's a signal coming in. Now, we all know what a signal can do. If you're looking for someone to send a signal, you'll probably find it. I'm talking to you about unfair, immoral actions. I'm not talking about where you really find there's some kind of violation. Of course you have to do your job. There are laws in this country that must be respected. I'm talking about some people who don't meet cops every day. They, when it happened during the election campaign something like this and made him sign a warning protocol, you know that the next day he could no longer even explain to the electoral programme of his political party due to various concerns, almost to accuse him of something else. This confuses the entire electoral process and the attitude of voters. With my best intentions, I'm telling you this isn't right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u263	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. Mr. Minister, do you want a doppelganger? You don't want to. Mr. Tsonev, you asked for a personal explanation, but for a procedure, Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u264	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, you did not remind the Interior Minister that these documents, which he has been waving here and making certain suggestions, we have asked them since 29 July so far, four times and should have presented them, because our aim and our intentions are to examine and illuminate every particular case in order to assess whether there is a police offence and an excess of rights, or not. On the other hand, Mr. Chairman, do your job as Chairman! Mr. Minister is affected by his dignity, and I would like to read here, in his explanation of his dignity, how the DPS blames and glues labels, and is already here, giving sentences for the DPS. And the DPS are all those over 350,000 Bulgarian citizens, Mr. Minister, it's not just me. And I'm gonna ask you, I'm not a lawyer, you're a lawyer. The crimes are personal, the citizen's, but more than 350 thousand people to accuse them here of criminals does not honor you and confuse you with dignity, firstly, all those over 350 thousand citizens, and secondly, did you ask yourself what happened to the dignity of all those Bulgarian citizens who humiliated them during the elections? Therefore, I will ask you, Mr President, to make remarks and to tell him that these documents have been available since July 29th, and since December 25th so far, I have been waiting for them to judge myself and to work on the basis of documents, not to come out and make suggestions and put labels on the entire DPS here, from this tribune. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u265	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I'll give the floor to Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Tsonev, however, will not be for a personal explanation, it will be for a procedure. And it will explain why at least I read the words of Minister Rashkov, based on the fact that he is a lawyer and knows perfectly well that by addressing someone personally for buying votes in this room, he will commit a crime. I read his words and they were so directed that individuals were buying votes for the benefit of a particular party. I will not say for whom, the minister pointed to a relevant judicial act, that is, that is, there is one. So I read in this context his words. So, Mr. Tsonev, I give you the floor of procedure. Here you go. It's like a line to your procedure, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u266	I didn't get any papers. I wanted...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u267	About the documents, I think Mr. Chairman Nikola Minchev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u268	... He violates the rules and the Constitution... He speaks of dignity, let them read him the words, see with his speech what he does with the dignity of Bulgarian citizens!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u269	Mr. Karadayi, as you preserve the honor and dignity of your constituents, Mr. Rashkov protects the honor and dignity of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. [[Noise, lines and shouts from DPS: Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!]] Let me finish. Please, let me finish! You have your position, the Minister has his position. There are institutions that determine who's right. And these institutions, in my opinion, are the prosecution and, accordingly, the court. I am not the institution that can decide whether you are right or whether the Minister is right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u270	Get out of the bank if you don't know!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u271	What I can do is to call on all the participants in this debate, who are forming in parliamentary control today, to respect order and dignity in this Chamber, as our Rules in Art. 152. Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor for procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the interesting interpretation of the procedure I asked for. Of course, it should be a personal explanation, because he addressed me with an answer to the topics that I put, and I would like to comment on this answer, but never mind, I will not pick on you, any procedure. I would just like to remind the Minister that the purpose of the procedure that I have made and the appeal to you to adhere to parliamentary control is not to give assessments for the political parties within this procedure. Otherwise, he has the right to express his will by going to vote, he has the right to go to the media and also to express his views on certain political parties, including those who raise him, and on the policy they conduct. As for the assessment of the DPS voters, we're not running away from it. On the contrary, they have been giving it regularly for 32 years, and we see it. And for his information, she's not always the same person. We're wrong, too. There were voters of the order between 250 and 600 thousand votes. But the suggestion made by him here from this tribune is unacceptable. Absolutely unacceptable! There's a conviction. There's a conviction. Nobody's questioning that. No one disputes that there have been crimes against the political rights of citizens for so many years now, and before incriminating the purchase of votes, and after it is incriminated. Nobody denies that. This is an ulcer, a defect of Bulgarian democracy and the battle with it is fought by all of us. So who voted to incriminate this crime as a crime? The Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Minister. But under the guise of a battle with this act of committing political repression, pressure, intimidation and so on, it is unacceptable not only for the DPS, for no political party, for any Bulgarian citizen. And we want to establish that here, we want to determine whether the line is crossed, or if it's all by law. Do you think we should ask the D.A.? Yes, of course, and we've already asked her, and we'll get the answers from there. And we've sat her down. And rest assured, we will refer her to your actions and actions as well as to your inactions. Don't have any doubt about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u273	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. You have that right, of course. The next question is Mr. Mumeun's again. Here you are, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sometimes you get into very interesting thoughts and I listen with interest. I'll only allow myself to make you one, I don't know if it's a remark, but one request to make. Sometimes look behind you and for a week the Bulgarian flag stands with the opposite side of the hall. Pay attention to these details. I think he'd be better off with the front.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u275	Here you are, Mr. Mumeon. Let me ask you a question. [[Private applause from DPS.]] Thank you for your remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u276	Because I can see that Mr. Rashkov is getting a little nervous about a lot of...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u277	Please don't go into such... And to the Minister too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u278	That's why I say that sometimes you make very interesting thoughts and I listen to you with a lot of interest. I'll tell you, perhaps what Mr. Rashkov started with, when he entered the Chamber, he said it was not true that he did not come to parliamentary control. It is good, Mr. Chairman, or Mr. Nikola Minchev, to talk to Mr. Rashkov about this topic, because maybe he is not guilty and Mr. Minchev is guilty because I will remind you of something now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u279	Is that a procedure? Is that a question?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u280	No, it's all procedure. As long as I'm listening to the chairman, you'll let me. If you want me to take a procedure to say the same thing?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u281	Mr. Mummyun, I have given you the floor to develop your question, if you wish, then I can actually give you the floor of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u282	Yeah, I'm developing my question. And that has something to do with the matter, Mr. Chairman. Please don't interrupt me! At parliamentary control on 8 March you say, on the 9th I am actually asking a question whether the 11th will be the same arrangement so made that we do not have the opportunity to hear from Minister Rashkov? Mr. Nikola Minchev told me that on a rotational basis, the spoken or heard ministers are going backwards. I'll just tell you, both on the 8th and on the 11th Mr. Denkov was first in his hearing. Is that a lie or not? So, Mr. Chairman lied to me. And, Minister, don't get nervous, maybe it's not your fault, it's the President of the National Assembly. So, my next question is regarding another mayor of ours, Shukri Kamber, in the village of Topolovo. Same identical case. That's why I said that inertially things happened down there. Not all are criminals in this country and involved in the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u283	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer. Just for the record, I have held parliamentary control meetings myself several times when Minister Rashkov was in charge, so... [[Loud laughter by the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev.]] Here you are, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u284	It's the same question, we just change people's names.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u285	We used to change them back in the day!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u286	If the questions are identical, the circumstances may be different.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u287	There was one, now Shukri Camber. [[DPS lines: This is your dream.]] Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. At that time I was too young to participate in the change of the names of the Bulgarian Muslims. [[Replys: "Come on. "]] And in a minute, I'm really gonna leave the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u288	And now you're young.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u289	Mr. Hamid, please. If you please, Mr. Hamid, you really don't have to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u290	Look who wants and who's here making speeches about the minister breaking the rules! The rules say that no one can speak from place to place. Why are you speaking out of place? Are you sick? Since the Rules say: "The person who is sick can speak from a place. " - Why not observe your Rules and give an example of how the law is observed? Because here, up to 5 minutes back, I heard some critical remarks, some critics, this one had been nervous, the chairman at the moment he was leading, didn't make the right notes, and a number of other critical remarks. Here are the most righteous not only in the Chamber, but in the whole country!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u291	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Please, let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u292	The question is... With two sentences, I'm already gonna start answering because I can see it's absolutely pointless.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u293	As you like. On the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u294	As far as Shukri Camber is concerned. And here is used the expression..... for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior...................................of pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior.............................................. I appeal to you to send them, if you have such data, to the relevant prosecution. Secondly, Mr. Shukri Kamber has received operational data on his empathy for irregular actions related to the electoral process. Here's the document they sent me from the proper service. [[Mister Boyko Rashkov shows a document.]] I'm referring to him. The fact that some representatives of the DPS do not trust the Ministry of Interior officials is at their expense. I trust the employees of the Ministry of Interior. In relation to an inspection which has been carried out in relation to this person, a protocol has been drawn up under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act. If anyone does not like this text from the Ministry of Interior Act, the possibility of it being cancelled is in your hands. Let the DPS initiate such a change, be examined by parliament and cancel. Finally, I would say that I have not turned for a moment against the electorate of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. These people do not organize what the investigating authorities are dealing with.. the prosecution and the court, and which is called buying and selling votes. And I give separate examples, bearing with me the relevant judgments. Summary that this activity is involved with the electorate of the DPS, I have not done and will not do. So please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u295	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mummyun, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I believe more than you in the staff of the Ministry of Interior because I know a lot of them, but I'm worried that even in the ranks of the Ministry of Interior, there seems to be some pressure, so that they do things they wouldn't normally do. Those were my two questions. I will not comment on whether I am satisfied with the answers, because I just said: if there is something to lighten up, light it up, but not systematically down to reach for the image and reputation of people who honestly do their job or take up the job they are elected to. We expect you not to make suggestions regarding the electoral processes and the commitment of people on the ground, but to remain in history as one minister who has made sure that there is no order in the country, no crime and a number of other things that are your obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u297	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. A hole, would you like, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u298	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u299	You don't want to. Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u300	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct, I would like to refer to you once again: these documents which Mr. Rashkov has been waving from here and trying to make suggestions with the waving of these documents, we have asked for them since July 29th, at least four times. To remind him that according to art. Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure and Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure 138, and on the basis of the Constitution, he is obliged to provide them to us, and from there we will decide what to do with these documents, Mr. Chairman. Once again I turn to you, remind him every time he waving documents here, whether he has presented them to us, because you know very well that we have asked for them more than once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u301	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. The next question is from Mr. Stanislav Anastasov. You have the floor, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Boyko Iliev Rashkov with three names, not to mention that someone else Boyko Rashkov asked. Mr. Minister, I see you're annoying us, and in this regard, I'd like to offer you an apology. Yes, I am young, there are slightly older colleagues here in the Chamber who are from the founding of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and a large part are not in the Chamber, but, Minister Rashkov, I really sincerely want to apologize for the fact that the DPS has brought democracy here to Bulgaria. Continue to be angry with us, but I assure you that the majority of Bulgarian citizens are pleased with this fact. Quite specifically in the town of Teteven, Lovech District, during the election campaign in July for parliamentary elections, Mr. Stefan Dobrevski So my question is: on what basis and what is the existence of sufficient data that has been shared with him but not presented in any way to draw up the warning protocol? Has the prosecution also been informed of any further action on the case described? By the way, Mr. Minister, with the advice of colleagues, I would like to remind you that in Chapter Three, Crimes against the electoral rights of citizens, which you so often refer to, there are also crimes committed by officials. And you, as a minister, have an inspectorate, as far as I know, and internal security, with which you can check your own violations and not have to do it Bulgarian organizations, but also international ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u303	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer. [[Mister Boyko Rashkov is looking for the answer in the folder.]] Mr. Anastasov, can you repeat the face?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u304	Stefan Dobrevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u305	Stefan Dobrevsky. [[Mister Boyko Rashkov is looking for the answer in the folders.]] Yeah, we'll wait.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u306	I'm trying to find him or save him for later.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u307	Mr. Anastasov, should we wait another minute or possibly postpone your question for later or for the next parliamentary control?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u308	Let's not put it off.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u309	Let the Minister look for the answer to the question. Let's see if the Minister will succeed after all. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u310	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, but there's a shift in the series of questions about how they were put, I don't know why it happened, but whatever.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u311	Yeah, these things happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u312	We've got a prep. It's about Stefan Dobrevsky, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u313	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u314	You ask the same question again: pressure, harassment on the part, warning protocol and generally possible unlawful acts by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. First, the answer to its first part will be as to all others, placed in this way. There, when Mr. Anastasov is spoken in Chapter 3 of Section III of the special part of the Criminal Code for an official, there is something other than an official who has carried out this work, he is responsible. That's what it's about, not that the minister walks with a briefcase, you probably know how it works, brings it to the districts, and in a moment I'll show you a picture that I have here bigger, will be seen everywhere carrying some pretty serious amounts. Where did these numbers come from? They've been drugged, they've been drugged, they've been drugged, they've been drugged, they've been drugged, they've been drugged, they've [[DPS lines: "Eee! "]] I can't tell from this tribune. They may be from somewhere else, of course, but whatever. They are worn by those people who make a commitment for a minimum wage to start buying votes as much as they can, the more they buy, the better. And there is nothing strange that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, since it has been mentioned here, I am pleased that it was recalled by Mr. Tsonev that the incriminating of these acts has also happened with the participation of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which is good, but it is better if the Criminal Code is respected the ban in order not to commit crimes. Otherwise, we cannot deal with this issue of harassment. Please contact the appropriate prosecutor. Secondly, because this is the question of the activists, he is the municipal president of DPS Teteven, he is the activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and I would like to tell you frankly, and there is nothing wrong with that, we do not share the people of activists of the DPS, activists of other political parties, they are Bulgarian citizens who are voters, they have their electoral rights. So we will treat and treat the persons who are your sympathizers, members, activists as we treat all other Bulgarian citizens. You say in general that possible unlawful acts have been committed. I do not have such evidence that unlawful acts have been committed. I can't answer that question anymore. Thirdly, dear Mr. Anastasov, you claim that your municipal chairman Mr. Dobrevski has a protocol of employees of the Ministry of Interior and you are interested on what legal basis he has a warning protocol, notification of the prosecution and so on. Dear Mr. Anastasov, Mr. Dobrevsky has not written a protocol under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act, i.e. a warning one, which brings me to an objective inability to answer the rest of your question. And there's one more thing I'm gonna afford. I don't wave papers. I am trying to be justified, I am showing those that documents, dear Mr Karadayi, have not been drawn up at the time the elections were held, these are references which I have requested from the relevant departments of the Ministry of Interior with a view to being able to respond to you on the basis of actual facts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u315	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Anastasov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u316	Mr. Minister, I must admit, I'm not very surprised by the answer, as far as there was one at all. Yes, that's what happens, Minister, when oral orders are given, there are no documents, and that's why you don't introduce us, we're convinced. I have, for example, sat a little bit on these chairs here, and if anyone asked me anything, I would present the documents to them, because in 100% of the cases, I am sure that the documents are exonerating me and that is why I have provided them without any concerns and any inhibitions. Do you know what the saddest part is? You are here trying to represent yourself as a defender of the Bulgarian police officers, Mr. Minister, well, no, you are not. You reminded them of a very sad quote by Father Matthew Preobrazhensky: "All things must be required in writing and executed only then, because the wicked turn away from the end of the quote. Unfortunately, with these oral orders, with these lists, with the rounds of deputy ministers, to give instructions on who, when, where, what protocol to be handed to him, how to be persecuted, what to be bullied, what business there is, where to send him the Economic Police, where else, so that the old principle can think about everything else, but not elections, that is to prevent people from thinking about elections and exercising their legitimate democratic rights. You have put many Bulgarian police officers in a very humiliating situation, as we have reminded you repeatedly, but you are trying not to notice it. In many places, the court ruled that the actions of the police were unlawful, given by a judgment, and from there you know what follows. You know very well, because you were an accuser, albeit at some other time. Another topic is that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has some inhibitions, because there is also respect for the Bulgarian institutions, unlike others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u317	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. I'll allow myself to say that the quote you made may not have been appropriate. [[Reply by MP Stanislav Anastasov.]] That's not what I think. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? You don't want to. Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, but I'm already making a note of you. You allow yourself to comment on every single MP, but on the other hand, when ministers stand here and do not answer questions asked, you do not make them a remark that they are obliged to answer the question asked, on the one hand. On the other hand, when they go outside the framework of the question asked and start making all sorts of suggestions from this tribune, regardless of whose address, you still don't make a remark to them. Why would I say that? Because any minister can at any time take the floor, Mr. Chairman, according to the rules and say whatever he wants. Here, at the moment, the ministers must answer the specific questions, and I remind you, again, not to make suggestions with the waving of some leaves. I am convinced and I am sure that they are documents and that is why I say that something is waving around which we have not seen, because on several occasions, Mr President, and you know very well that we have asked for these documents and they have not been presented to us and with this something is broken both the Constitution and the Rules of Organization and Activities of the National Assembly. If these suggestions and allegations of Mr. Minister, if he was right, he would probably present these documents. I'm already starting to doubt and speculate why he's not presenting these documents to us and waving them from here? Make a note to him every time that he is obliged to present these documents to us under the Rules of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u319	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. You are not objective that I am interfering with the speeches of each of the representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I've taken the liberty of making exactly two comments on eight questions and about ten or twelve procedures. So here you are not objective, but outside the specific issues being asked are coming out of both sides. You'll agree to that. This is my response to your procedure. With regard to the documents. You also know that there is an order in which they are required, respectively this procedure has been followed, as National Assembly President Nikola Minchev said. You know very well that it is Mr. Minchev who is the one who is resoling the demands you are making for the documents. Here you are, Mr. Karadaye, if you wish for a second procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u320	And what was that comment, Mr. Chairman?! Am I to understand that it is a refusal to fulfil the duties of the President of the National Assembly to hold this meeting?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u321	If you like the map, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u322	That's what I understand about your explanations and nothing else. Everything else is in the order of the documents. That is, you refuse to make any remarks to the Minister that he has not presented the documents here and is waving some leaves. We do not know them from a distance what these leaves are, but according to the Constitution and the laws of the country he is obliged to present them to us. These things that he is waving, today must be in the National Assembly and every member of the National Assembly must have been acquainted with them. I really doubt what the minister is saying and trying to insinuate. Otherwise he would have presented these documents here, we would have known what was in them and then we would have been able to address them, as he says, to the right addressees and to the competent authorities. And you are currently with all your explanations as a final result, it turns out that you are refusing to hold the meeting properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u323	And I thank you, Mr. Karadayi, but again you are wrong, because in today's meeting of the National Assembly oral questions are asked and oral answers are given. No written documents are required. And you know that the order to require written documents is different. Mr. Angov, are you here for procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u324	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the way you're being led. We are witnessing numerous procedures that have nothing to do with the way we conduct it, and you allow political speeches, suggestions and so on. So we absolutely support you in the decision that I hope you will take and begin to take away the floor when the procedure is not actually a procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u325	Thank you, Mr. Angov. The next question is from the MP Nebi Kabak. Mrs. Kabak, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! During the election campaign for parliamentary elections in July 2021 in the village of Sveta Petka, Velingrad municipality, Pazardzhik district, a search of Mr. Ali Teber's home was carried out, who is a municipal councillor from DPS. On the basis of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions: on what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings the above-mentioned search was carried out? Has the prosecution been informed of the search and further action on the case described?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u327	Thank you, Mrs. Kabak. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u328	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Kabak, this is about Ali Teber, isn't it? Ali Teber? Because there's a lot of files. Okay. The same are the questions that we are discussing here so far, and I will be brief in my answer, because I am not comfortable answering the same question anymore. In relation to the general that you write, pressure and harassment, contact the competent prosecution if you have such data. We don't have that kind of data. And I'm going to say that again, even though it makes me a little uncomfortable for him too. The house, as you say, is not searched, it is searched. There's a small but substantial difference. I'm saying this because the person you're asking from St. Petka Ali Teber isn't searched, so I'm saying it. We have information available with regard to this person that he is communioned, if I may say so, to actions relating to elections, and that is why he is drawn up an actual warning protocol under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act. In Mr Teber's house, no investigative action has been carried out at all. This is a reason for me to accept that by exporting false data with a question to Parliament, it is intended to deliberately embarrass employees of the Ministry of Interior and damage their authority in society. And one more thing to conclude. In the District Department, no criminal proceedings under Chapter Three, Section III of the Penal Code have been initiated and conducted at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u329	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Kabak, would you like a line? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u330	Mr. Minister, Mr. Ali Teber's home was actually attended by officers of the Ministry of Interior who performed a search. My question was, why was this search necessary? And when I go to my electoral district on Saturday and Sunday and this man comes before me to ask me why the Ministry of Interior officials broke into my home, why was that necessary?...............I did not understand what to say to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u331	Thank you, Mrs. Kabak. Would you like a hole, Mr. Secretary? You have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u332	On July 9 in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Pazardzhik was received a signal from a corresponding mobile phone, which is noted here that in the village of Sveta Petka, Velingrad municipality, the regional leader of the DPS, I will not say his name... [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] I ain't gonna tell him his name out here on this stand. ...has given a sum of 70 or 80 thousand. lv. This man you're asking me about buying votes for a political party. [[Applause and laughter by DPS.]] Great! Great! Enjoy. Who do you think this political party is? She's gone! She's gone! Why did you clap? It has also been reported that those individuals you are talking about and are asking so persistently, buying and selling votes for 10 years, but so far have been untouchable. And now in detail that you can check out, since Mr. Karadaye doesn't believe what I'm waving here, what I'm wearing. Here, I'll give him the data now. You go to the District and check, or the D.A.'s office, and you do checks. The signal was registered with registration No 367P-12-735 from 9 July according to the description of the Regional Government. A team has been set up to work in the same way and operational and search activities have been carried out in relation to the alert it has received. There, in the village, on Street. "Panayot Volov" 6 and a grocery store owned by this person, the same person you ask for, are established other persons. No amount of money was found in the sites. They've checked the people. The cops went and checked it out. They didn't find the money the signal was for. It's about large quantities. Neither lists, I.D.s or other items were found and those described in the alert. The corresponding constant protocols have been made for what has been established and, of course, explanations have been taken from the persons who were there, including Mr Teber. There have also been checks on cars, I have been marked, protocols have been drawn up under art. 81 of the Ministry of Interior Act and so on, art. 83 for inspection in these premises. With regard to the actions which have been carried out, Mr Teber himself has indicated that there is no request and objection regarding the actions of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and that there is an actual protocol of this person under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act because of the signal received in this direction, that is why. And other people have taken away explanations, and here is quite a detail of what I have. The collected materials as a result of this verification with all these documents, constant protocols and so on are sent according to the competence of the Pazardzhik District Prosecutor's Office with its ward in Velingrad. This prosecution refused to initiate pre-trial proceedings with a corresponding decree of 3358 last year, and other details are unnecessary here to say. From all that has been done as an inspection, it can be concluded that there is no personal search of Mr Teber within the meaning of the relevant text of the PPC and the employees have carried out actions which are included in the main activities of the Ministry of Interior and their powers under the relevant law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u333	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was a doppelganger. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Mr. Chairman, pay attention to the minister who has to answer the questions. In the form of the question, if we have made our political assessment, this does not mean that there is no precise and clear question in the writings, which says: what is the legal basis for the relevant actions and what are the data on these actions, how things went at all, and which is the final result of the actions, regardless of what we ask specifically? And that our questions were the same. They, the actions of the militiamen, were also the same, because the police would not break the laws of the country. And on the other hand, we now understand the answer, and there was no such thing in the basic answer, so I have heard, hopefully also in the transcript, and that we are undermining the authority of the police by asking such questions, but in the appendix to the answer it turned out that there is such a thing and they have documents. And these documents, Minister, you were to submit them to the National Assembly at the request of the National Assembly under Articles 111 and 138 of the Rules of Procedure. Moreover, most likely your employees, Mr Minister, I pay attention to you to check whether they implement the Constitution and the laws of the country, and in particular the Rules of the National Assembly, as you advised us that these documents are in the respective Directorates of the Police. I just want to say, if you don't know, you know, because I'm probably going to ask you one question, whether, at your direction, or on their sole discretion, they have not responded to me by the Police Directorates of the requested documents of 13 August 2021 and 26 January 2022? And from them I have asked for these documents because our goal is only to investigate and illuminate each particular case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u335	Thank you, too. Mrs. Kabak, you have one more question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u336	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! In Velingrad, Pazardzhik District, in the election campaign for parliamentary elections in July 2021, Mr. Iskren Tüfekchiev, who is a municipal councillor from the DPS, was called for questioning in the police and signed a warning protocol. Please explain to me on what legal basis has he been called for questioning, and what is the presence of sufficient data to have a warning protocol drawn up for him? Has the prosecution been informed and what further action has been taken on the case described?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u337	Mrs. Kabak, I'm sorry, but I think the question you asked before was exactly what you read now, if I'm not mistaken. [[(Nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, ……]] Yes, I'm sorry, it's my fault. [[Heckling]] Yes, I'm sorry, Mrs. Kabak. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u338	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Kabak, the same question you ask me, only with regard to the town of Velingrad and another person, Tüfekchiev, municipal councillor, called and so on, the same terminology. We need to change that terminology. We are, however, in the supreme power of the state, in the National Assembly, and here we must speak in a refined language. There's no getting used to it. There are other places where we go for a walk, one calls someone else from the other peak and so on. There is a regular call by legal means. And one more thing, before I begin, I will answer very briefly, of course. A moment ago it was said again, just critically, that you see, everyone is wrong, only Mr. Karadayi is the rightst man and the righteous one in the world and here teaches us all. [[Applause from ARGUING.]] What actions have been carried out and what results have been associated with this I have to observe, and what should he observe, he is great to the files, what is the legal basis of the Ministry of Interior, the Prosecutor's Office, what and so on? I, at 11:00 am trying to get into every question deep enough and give an answer specifically and begin to say what the legal basis is. And now, again, I will respond to what is the legal basis in order to take some or other police action, what are the factual grounds, not only the legal basis, I also emphasise this. What has been taken, what has been done and what results have been achieved. Where are these materials sent? These materials have been sent to the D.A.'s office. Ask the D.A. for them. They're there. I have said many times today, I am even uncomfortable that I repeat so many times, these materials, these files, there is or there is no crime, are solved by an act of the respective prosecution, not by the authority of the Ministry of Interior. And a few times I'd like to say quite nicely: turn to the D.A.'s office the way you turned... Or Rukie, what was it like in the village of Hunters, she turned herself over to the prosecutor to give her the materials and the prosecutor refused. Turn to you as political authority to this prosecution, help Rukier to obtain these documents. Like here, I explain everything in detail, but something like we don't get along, and it's obviously on purpose. Everyone already figured out why. But let's talk about it. This is about Velingrad, this is about Tüfekchiev. He wasn't called in for questioning, he was called in for questioning. He's signed a warning protocol, so it's claimed. And now, in terms of pressure and harassment by the employees of the Ministry of Interior, I simply leave no comment, as it has already become very clear to everyone to whom it should address. In factology. On 8 July 2021 in Pazardzhik, Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, a file with registration No 312-P was formed in connection with an alert for unlawful acts in the territory of Velingrad Municipality "Rakitovo and Sarnitsa, related to the electoral process. The signal refers to several persons, one of whom is Tüfekchiev. In the course of the inspection, Tüfekchiev was not summoned, but legally called as any other Bulgarian citizen. It shall be accompanied by a warning protocol as referred to in Article 1. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act, which is the legal basis. Since you are asking me what the legal basis is, what the legal basis is, this is the legal basis. And what is the basis for the fact that the signal is received in the police service concerned. It is interesting in this situation why are you asking me about pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior in the electoral process, and I cannot answer that question? It is likely that at night we will stay here, stay and talk the same thing, which is hardly in favor of the Bulgarian electoral who is waiting for you, of course, legal activity... Finally, Pazardzhik District Prosecution has been notified of the case and, Mrs. Kabak, pre-trial proceedings have been initiated, which has been investigated, subsequently terminated on the grounds of art. 24, para. 1, t. 1 of the PPC. These are the great questions we are dealing with and dealing with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u339	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a line? Here you are, Mrs. Kabak, and once again, I apologize for the misunderstanding earlier.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, pre-trial proceedings have been terminated, perhaps because Mr. Tüfekchiev is being questioned as to why he is handing out agitating materials. I don't understand what the problem is with handing out canvassing materials when it comes to a period in which we are in an election campaign?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u341	Thank you, Mrs. Kabak. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u342	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Kabak, get into an argument with the prosecutor who terminated the proceedings, please. Please come in! This is not the place to discuss how and why, on what legal and factual basis a prosecutor has done his job. This is exclusively the power of the bodies of the independent judiciary, dear Mrs Kabak. This isn't about me. I can't influence any prosecutor to make one or another procedural decision. You can see that from the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u343	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u344	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u345	Yes, Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor. Mr. Kostadinov, if you can turn the phone down, forgive me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u346	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Mr. Chairman, you should have reminded Mr. Minister that I didn't think I was playing the fool. It would never have crossed my mind that I was perfect or that I was sinless, that God saved me. Allahu korsun! On the other hand, I don't know who's annoying, honourable colleagues, and we say we're wasting plenary time... No! The defence of democracy, fellow Members, has a high price and we are all here called to defend democracy in our country, and this arbitrariness, which was during the elections, must once and for all have clarity and, as the Minister says, we all know what we are talking about. We're not just gonna end up with these questions! We asked a common question for everyone with the idea of getting our stuff in writing, we were answered that for every particular case we should ask a question, we have patience. We're even checking stuff from 37 years ago. Tomorrow it'll be about 50 years ago, we have the patience and we'll check it out. My call is to defend democracy, each and every one of us is called to give up our participation and this is not a waste of plenary time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u347	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. The next question is from the MP Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov. Mr. Ahmedov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, my question is also one of these uniforms, as you think, but for us in every question there is a specific person, for us each person represents a separate destiny with which I dare say that you also mocked. My question is in relation to... on July 8, 2021 in the village of Gorichevo, the municipality of Kubrat, Razgrad, Mrs. Turkian Tatar, I have indicated two names, but I am making clear that she is the wife of the mayor of the village of Gorichevo, has signed a warning protocol, I hope, that she has campaigned for the DPS or explained the engine vote, namely with the intention to investigate and illuminate every particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, we ask you the following questions: on what basis and on what basis is the availability of sufficient data to draw up a warning protocol? Has the prosecution been informed of further action on the case described? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u349	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u350	Mr. Chairman, honourable peoples representatives! Mr. Ahmedov, you're asking me about Turkian Tatar Ibryam, aren't I wrong, village of Gorichevo? The answer to your question is this: in terms of actions you know what my answer is today and I move on. She is the wife of the mayor of Gorichevo, Kubrat, Razgrad. It is subject to a check of unlawful acts in the territory of Razgrad region for which a warning protocol has been drawn up under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act. It concerns illegal inclusion in the data available to a number of persons in the territory of Razgrad District, voting lists with a mobile electoral box in the election for MPs on 11 June 2021. I think I will stop here, but I will just remind you that in Razgrad, it seems to me, there have been the most cases where voters have voted with mobile urns and currently there are investigations in relation to such cases, including with regard to doctors who have issued medical documents, or people who have issued medical real documents, I quote from memory. How far have these cases gone? We're out of the question right now, and I can't tell you, but we do have that information. Of course, the materials concerning the lady you are asking me about are sent to the District Prosecutor's Office, Razgrad, for a ruling on jurisdiction. And from what we've established in this inspection, there's no finding that any violations have been committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u351	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ahmedov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u352	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I guess you, too, and I didn't understand anything about that answer, I just found out about some suggestions that in Razgrad region it was about a lot of moving sections. Yes, we are talking about many moving sections, and you, Mr Minister, in your interview on 18 May expressed a doubt that you are monitoring this process and this doubt so little was suggesting that in Razgrad region, thanks to the organisation that has a movement for rights and freedoms, it has managed to organise and make mobile polling stations so that our voters can fulfill their constitutional and electoral right to vote, to exercise their vote. We find nothing in what you say. Secondly, of course doctors, health workers will issue these notes for people in vulnerable groups, we will not issue them. The only thing you might be worried about is that we're an organized party, and that gives you a bad impression. And the fact that you analyzed each of the sections shows that you managed during these elections, and in general as a minister of the service, to turn the Ministry of Interior's system into an election headquarters for one purpose only to benefit one party or another. It didn't make any sense to me! I didn't get it, and what's the answer to Turkian? What would I say to Turkian?! I would only say that thanks to our being brought up and organized, we will tolerate these repressions. I didn't actually hear who gave this signal, because in this room too, I can argue that this signal may have given Mr. Atanasov or Antoaneta Tsoneva or the sister of the justice minister because they have something to do with Razgrad. [[Applause from DPS.]] Let's hear these things too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u353	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u354	Do I have the right to a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u355	You weren't affected, you were simply mentioned by name, there was no context directly to you, Mrs. Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u356	There was a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u357	If you want the floor, please come in for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u358	Mr. Ahmedov, I wonder at your wits why you challenge me and pull the devil by the tail, as they say. You know very well what you yourself were calling for during the elections to civil arrests of police officers, if I recall, for they were trying to collect evidence and investigate how improperly mobile polling stations were created, something for which in this Chamber we had had a long discussion with the hearing minister, which I had provoked. In Razgrad, I didn't give any signals, although I was originally from there, but I am a candidate from the Pazardzhiski region and there I filed signals at the elections in November and a number of evidences, a number of folders I invite you to come see them....................... how documents have been accepted by people who do not meet the requirements and meaning of the Law and based on this in Sarnitsa, Batak and Peshtera have been made. So if we stick to the facts, to put aside the strong demagogy, you have a lot of sins in these elections and you should admit them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u359	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Excuse me, Mr. Minister, would you like a copy of Mr. Ahmedov's line? [[The National Representative Neby Kabak wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Wait, wait, wait, wait. I forgot to give the minister the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u360	No, thanks, I don't see the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u361	You don't want a doppelganger, okay. Procedure in the manner of holding.. Mrs. Kabak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u362	Mr. Chairman, I ask that when MPs make accusations that the health authorities issue false documents, you make a remark to them. Either way, Mrs. Tsoneva, you raised the question of Sarnitza and I think it's good to explain to the House what happened at Sarnitsa. Because...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u363	Mrs. Kabak, you don't have a chance... [[(Replication by National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva:]] There's no possibility, the procedure is the way it leads to me, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u364	I'm asking today...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u365	It was a personal explanation. Don't interrupt. We have to keep some order after all. The situation in Sarnitsa, where exactly is it discussed? Where, in what question? [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Mrs. Tsoneva was just mentioned by your colleague Ahmedov. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] On the contrary, it was mentioned. Mrs. Kabak, to me, if you have anything, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u366	Mr. Chairman, it's important what I say, a sentence won't take long. In Sarnitsa happened this: my grandfather, who was 80 years old, with an amputated leg, was forced to prove to some people that he was really sick and could not really go to the section. What if that's what you find normal?! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u367	Thank you, Mrs. Kabak. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Tsoneva. [[Reply from DPS: "What is the procedure? "]] We'll see about that. [[DPS lines.]] Mr. Tsonev, I turned to your parliamentary group, I didn't see anyone raise their hand. The moment I turn around, very please, I can't stand by you all the time and record you for procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u368	Because you're abusing...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u369	Mr. Tsonev may have given up, how should I know?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u370	...with the procedure and the rules, and I want to stick to the truth and the facts. The evidence is in our room, I invite you to come and look at it...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u371	To me, Mrs. Tsoneva, to me...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u372	...what documents are you talking about from TelK. I'm sorry about your grandfather, but what I have as folders says a lot about serious problems regarding the composition of these sections. [[(Noise and lines from DPS:) Who is this to? Make a note of it! Why didn't you interrupt it or are you afraid of the coalition?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u373	Colleagues, please, not from the spot. First of all, my colleague, I'm going to ask you to speak politely to yourself and not to you. Your parliamentary group insists that they are indeed people who respect the Rules and respect their fellow Members, including those leading this sitting. Mr. Tsonev, would you like more procedure in the manner of conduct? Here you go. Then Mr. Tashev. [[The National Representative Yordan Tsonev gave way to the procedure of the National Representative Dimitar Tashev.]] Mr. Tashev and then Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u374	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister Rashkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I've requested a procedure in the manner of conduct. She does not treat you personally, Mr. Chairman, as most procedures do today, but my procedure is related to the visit of Mrs. Parvanova, the Chairman of the State Agency for Refugees, who was here on Wednesday and who we listened to. After we introduced her to the problems in the crisis center in Burgas and the queue, which was of 600 Ukrainian citizens waiting to receive status on Wednesday morning, I am very disgusted by the inaction of Mrs. Parvanova...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u375	Mr. Tashev, to me the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u376	Yeah, to you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u377	Mrs. Parvanova is not here and that is not at all a topic of today's...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u378	My request is, I rely only on Mr. Rachev, the crisis headquarters, to resolve this case and not to have large queues of waiting Ukrainian citizens in Burgas, in the crisis center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u379	Mr. Tashev, thank you. Your cause is obviously good and well-meaning, but please, let us not abuse the procedures in the manner of conduct. That's not the subject of today's meeting at all. Mr. Tsonev, please come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u380	I understand, Mr. Chairman. Thank you so much for giving me a chance. I understand that today's sitting is difficult, difficult, and indeed a challenge to lead it. In this regard, I would like to apologize on behalf of the parliamentary group if we have broken good terms somewhere, but the situation is really nervous. Here, a moment ago Mrs. Tsoneva turned to a procedure that was a personal explanation and charged our party. It is quite right then to give the floor for the procedure of the colleague Kabak, because she did not make a procedure a personal explanation, but another procedure, but with this I just want to illustrate the complexity of the debate and its importance. I will end with this.. all replies of Minister Rashkov, or 99% of them, were uniform, the questions are also similar, for the same actions and they contained the following: on a signal or received data a check has been carried out, it is called... let us not use the other term.. the person, performed not a search, but a search, nothing was found, no data was found, no data was found, everything is closed or is given to the prosecution and it has not found data. Now do you understand why we ask so strongly? Because in the electoral process, and this will soon turn against all of you in the next election, you may be signaling these signals to be false, because nothing is established, or if they are false, they remain at least unproven. And what is the responsibility of the giver? So in the next election, we sit down and write signals against all activists, for example.Yes, Bulgaria... I see colleagues, or PP and we say...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u381	Mr. Tsonev, you're a bit of abusing the procedure because you're doing an analysis.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u382	No, I'm not doing an analysis.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u383	We're not in a hearing under art. 110.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u384	I am addressing you because all this time we have been throwing procedures, with answers, or insufficiently clear answers, and this has been causing procedures. I now refer to you as I have started very correctly, that the debate has been difficult for you, but I still have to say it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u385	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u386	No, let me finish. I still have 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u387	Yeah, sure, finish up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u388	All of this action we do not have any data, it is not established that these persons are not found in them, there is nothing, the verification has ended this way. Almost all the answers were like that. Well, who's responsible?! All this time activists get used to it, it's stressing them out, scaring them. Did you know that they refused to take part in the election campaign on the grounds that this is our asset, that our asset, by not being able to take a ladder to the voters, are you not interfering with the electoral process? You're interfering, of course, in the most brutal way. It must be clear that when there are thousands of signals and 90% of these thousands of signals are false, there must be responsibility. What do you mean?! Then we'll blam the entire election process from here on out like this. If you think there's a need for a change in legislation, let's do it. There are no sufficiently clear data, however, checks have been carried out. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The protocol has been signed and the tart has been paid. It's not a cake, it's not paid for. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u389	Mr. Tsonev, and you abused the procedure because it was of its kind in terms of parliamentary control. In order for control to be equal, I will give Minister Rashkov two minutes. Minister Rashkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, I'm leaving, but what I've heard right now has nothing to do with life. [[(Private applause from the DPS. Revelations: ……]] It's got nothing to do with it! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Since some signals have proved unproven, we need to remove the verification procedure at all, for example, whether the DPS is buying votes. [[a line from the National Representative Yordan Tsonev: Not some, all!]] That's not gonna happen! [[Replys from DPS. Claps by "Keep On Changing."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-18.u391	Colleagues, thank you for your patience. Have a good rest, guys! The next regular meeting of the National Assembly will be held on 23 March at 9.00 on an additional announced agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
