ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats! We're going to register. There are 195 MPs registered. There's a quorum. I'm opening today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]] My fellow Members, before we proceed to the procedure itself, I would like to address everyone in this House. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, honourable Members! Today is an extremely important day for Bulgaria, today's debates and the subsequent vote will determine the direction in which our country will take over, the eyes of our society are focused today with hope and anticipation. I call on each of us in this Chamber today to set a good example by showing that democracy is alive, that the spirit of parliamentaryism in Bulgaria is alive. Let us show mutual respect despite our ideas and ideological differences, let the arguments today beat politics. Dear colleagues, I ask you today to show that there are decent and decent people in this House. Finally, I would like to remind you of the warning I gave on Friday: I ask that each of you be distinguished from the language of hatred, from unworthy and indecent conduct, from physical contacts and clashes, as today we will apply the Rules in all its strictness. There are important votes ahead. I hope that there will be no MPs who will be deprived of their right to vote in the forthcoming important plenary sessions. [[(Reply by National Representative Mustafa Karadayi: Are these threats?]] Mr. Balabanov, for a statement please come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The declaration relates only to facts. Changing, reforming, fighting corruption, defending honor and dignity are all qualities that must be filled with deeds, not false phrases, the illusion of change that brings with it only disappointment. While across the street they are screaming that I am and that we are part of the mafia, it is only right to rely on the facts that will give the opportunity of the Bulgarian society to create its own thesis, without trying for suggestion and lies, because, after all, each one of us here in the most representative building of Bulgaria is sent to serve the society. Lately, when we talk freely and stick to the facts, we're mobsters. I don't know if you're impressed, but since yesterday the President is also part of the Mafia, suddenly he is GERB and DPS. Why? Because he's free, independent, and he's telling the truth. Because she, the ugly truth, does not like Kiril Petkov and Assen Vassilev, so the President is part of the mafia. This media illusion, which has been imposed in recent days, is the fake front behind which are hidden the carelessness and incompetence of those who would change. Therefore, honourable Members, only facts, and conclusions will make them public. Who serves the mafia and protects the mafia interests of Captain Andreevo? The independent MP Georgi Georgiev has since yesterday respected and moral, pledged allegiance to the Change, and a few weeks ago in the Commission voted with GERB, serving the mafia. Fact! Whose proposal is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to release 2.5 billion. BGN who, according to them, sank for illegal construction? The proposal is by Kiril Petkov and Assen Vassilev, supported by a legal vote from parliament. I don't know which mafia the prime minister is fighting when he proposed such a decision himself? Fact! The judicial reform. Have you heard recently, honourable colleagues and fellow journalists, did the Prime Minister comment on Chief Prosecutor Ivan Geshev, have he talked about him? The answer is no. Why? That's your job to ask. How many people who held senior government positions and were a symbol of corruption were detained by Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov, as promised at the beginning of the government? None. Sorry, one has been detained and the result, unfortunately, is that you have hardened your constituents. Transparency in the fight against corruption. A few months ago, according to the latest report of Transparency without Borders, Bulgaria has the highest corruption in the European Union. Fact! Inflation is unfortunately double in our country over that of the European Union. The $9 billion sunken. Lev, spent nine days, where are they? They showed me a tab...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u3	Mr. Balabanov, the economic indicators are part of the agenda, which is not acceptable for you to do in a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u4	Thanks for the remark. I'm moving on beyond economic evidence. They're facts, but I'll deal with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u5	Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u6	The appointments, colleagues, at the top of the line. Family circles that distribute the posts among themselves. Fact! Mr. Nikola Minchev and the fact that he is no longer President of the National Assembly is not because I repeat not because he is not respected as a person on the sidelines, but because he does not comply with the law. [[(Noise and lines from..) We continue the Change.....................................................................................................)]] On the contrary, colleagues, you've run him over. He did not allow us to be aware of secret information and facts in a closed session [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] ..as is the law...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u7	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u8	...and tried to get the Foreign Minister to commit a crime. Why? Because it depended on someone's decision in the Council of Ministers. Fact! Northern Macedonia. [[(Reply from..) We continue the ……]] The evidence of national betrayal has been in place three months ago. [[Noise and lines from "We continue the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] That's not news anymore. The news is a French proposal which aims to clear the guilty conscience of his architect Kiril Petkov. First, dear, why is the French proposal, why is it not Belgian or Italian? Where is the Bulgarian proposal, honourable Members of the National Assembly? Or is it more important in this case that Macron wins?! What exactly are the French telling us? You let go of northern Macedonia, and we will promise you. We promise you that someday we will take care of the rights of the Bulgarians in Northern Macedonia. We can take care of the rights of the Bulgarians in Northern Macedonia in five years. Maybe in 10 years, you let Macedonia go, and then we will understand each other. We know that there is no Macedonian language for you, but for us in France there is. You let them go, and it doesn't matter what exists to you. You let them go, even if you're a minority to them. One day we promise you that you can become a country nation. The fact that you have a Framework Position, a declaration from the forty-fourth Parliament, a decision of the President's Advisory Council, what does it matter? Accept our proposal, French, because you do not have the guts to have your Bulgarian. The hundreds of thousands of victims we have sacrificed for Northern Macedonia, do they deserve a French proposal? Dear colleagues, people have said that in order to have betrayal, trust must first be given. [[(Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov:]] This has been given, and it has not been justified for more than six months. Six people who are now standing in the last row of the Chamber have been given confidence, even though they played them on the market, even though they have turned parliament into a market, even though they themselves could not stand Kiril Petkov and Assen Vasilev because of all these facts. In fact, honourable Mr. Chairman, considering that one person and his foreign policy team did everything they could to sell the national interest, I thought to myself, "No! Those standing in the last row today did not betray Slavi Trifonov, neither me nor Tosko Yordanov, Iva Miteva, nor Professor Chorbanov, Colonel Alexandrov, or Associate Professor Sylvi Kirilov, nor Lyubomir Karimanski, nor the rest of our colleagues who were a team and worked as a team. They betrayed Bulgaria. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria]] Based on all these facts, honourable Members, I have made my own conclusions and therefore I am no longer part of this coalition. Because, colleagues, I do say it from the heart: there is nothing greater than the feeling when you are on the side of the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u9	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u10	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u11	Just a minute, Mr. Simov. I should announce that this extraordinary plenary session will take place on an agenda. with a single point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO VOICE THE BENEFICIARY OF THE MINISTER COUNCIL WITH THE MINISTER-FREE KIRYL PETKOV. Importers: Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Colleagues, I should also announce the time each parliamentary group will have in today's meeting. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Svilensky. We are continuing the Change... 30 minutes; GERB-SDS. 27 minutes; "Movement for Rights and Freedoms.. 18 minutes;. BSP for Bulgaria....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is without the possible increase in time provided for in the Rules. For the procedure, Mr. Simov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is with you, Mr. Chairman. Please make a remark when this tribune comes out a member who thinks this is the studio of 7/8 TV and concerns us with moralistic essays throughout the world and national policy. We must have some morality and shame. This isn't a TV studio! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u13	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Colleagues, let us not go into direct attacks on each other, as I called at the beginning of the sitting. I give the floor to the importers for an opinion. Who will present the Project? Mr. Kiril Ananiev. Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers! On the basis of the provisions and requirements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, our parliamentary group proposed to the National Assembly a motivated draft decision for a vote of no confidence of the Council of Ministers with Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. Although this government deserves to receive a vote of mistrust for its overall policy, we have decided to focus on its greatest failure, namely on its inadequate financial and economic policy. And it is not a coincidence that this policy is not abstract and does not work for itself, this policy is an impact on the state and development of all spheres in the public sector, public finances and the overall socio-economic development of the state. It's certainly a big subject. The proposed reasons are comprehensive, but cannot be presented within 10 minutes. Within the limited time, I will focus on macroeconomic planning and fiscal policy, the fiscal rules laid down in the Public Finance Act, the requirements of the Stability and Growth Plan and how all this affects the state and development of the public sector. The other negative consequences of the financial and economic policy will leave it to colleagues. Macroeconomic planning is mandatory and essential for the quality of the budgetary process and financial monitoring. Since October, when the budget procedure for 2022 is launched, we are offered for nine months a sixth macroeconomic forecast aimed at protecting the parameters of the update of the consolidated fiscal programme for this year. Unfortunately, it is not reliable, up-to-date and faithful. Despite the impact of some external factors, this has shown a lack of capacity not only for medium-term, but also for short-term planning, and it is certainly one of the main internal reasons for considering and discussing a third iteration of the consolidated fiscal programme, an overvalued economic growth, an undervalued inflation, an undervalued deflator in view of the growth of the domestic producer's prices, the high budget deficit, a huge and enslaving future generations of government debt, a negative current account for the first quarter, because imports are increasing twice as compared to exports and the contribution of net exports to gross domestic product is worsening, unrealistically reducing unemployment by 4.5%, a critical amount of fiscal reserve and other inaccurate assessments of macroeconomic planning components. To explain all this, it takes time that we do not have today. At the same time, I'm not sure you have the competence to understand us. At least pay attention to the forecasts of the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the Bulgarian National Bank and a number of international financial institutions. Optimistic growth planning is undesirable, as all fiscal indicators are expressed by the size of gross domestic product, deficit, debt, level of government spending. Bulgaria occupies 28th place worldwide in the highest inflation rate of 185 countries and fourth place in the European Union. In the world, we fall among 15% of the fastest-growing countries in inflation. Inflation as of May this year compared to May 2021 has increased by 15.6%. Record inflation after Bulgaria's bankruptcy in 1996 Inflation is more than 23% for food products only. By the end of the year inflation on an annual basis will exceed 13%. Bulgaria ranks second in the European Union in year-on-year price growth. The most affected are pensioners and low income groups, which mainly spend their available income on food products. With regard to the high budget deficit, the opinion of the European Commission is the same. The Commission is to take a decision and will recommend the launch of an excessive deficit procedure against Bulgaria in the autumn of this year. Currently, the proposed update of the state budget does not comply with the provisions of art. 24 of the Public Finance Act. They state that the medium-term budgetary objective for the sector of the government under consolidated debt of less than 40% of gross domestic product should not exceed 1% of gross domestic product. Currently, in the current law, the planned structural balance for 2022 is for a deficit of 3.1% of gross domestic product. With the measures envisaged, most of which will not have a real one-off nature, this level will be exceeded again in violation of the law. According to art. 25, para. 2 of the Public Finance Act, the deficit of the public administration sector on an annual basis, calculated on the basis of a European methodology, cannot exceed 3% of gross domestic product. The expected deficit of the government for 2022 is currently 5.3% of gross domestic product, and the budget update envisions 5.4%, which is a violation again. In accordance with art. 27, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act, the annual budget deficit under the consolidated fiscal programme calculated on a cash basis shall not exceed 3% of gross domestic product. The planned deficit of the consolidated fiscal programme for 2022 is within 4.1% and exceeds the previously planned deficit nominally by around 330 million. lv. On a charged basis, the deficit at the end of the year will exceed 7% of gross domestic product. The derogation of fiscal rules from the European Commission must be a temporary phenomenon. While most of the additional costs provided for in the update are of a permanent nature, which condemns the following governments to carry out severe restrictive measures in the spending part or raising taxes in the revenue section. Deficit on a charged basis will be significantly higher, at least 2.3% above the planned on a cash basis. This means non-compliance with the Maastricht criteria and putting at risk the date 1 January 2024 for entry into the euro area. For the first time in many years the debt issued for 2022 will exceed 10 billion. lv. The trend is even worse, given that some of the social talks in the coming years will have to be provided by a new additional debt. Let us not forget that in 2023 and 2024, without the update measures, a debt of 9 billion is planned to be issued. 100 million. lv. At the same time, debt is managed incompetently and inadequately. Interest payments will be twice as high as in Central European countries. The significant collapse of the main macroeconomic indicators mentioned by us and by international institutions is due precisely to the risks that were described in previous macroeconomic forecasts and the lack of adequate and timely government action to overcome them. Risks are grouped in two main directions: the risk of accelerating inflation, which may hinder and limit consumption in the structure of gross domestic product and lead to a reduction of the added value created by the economy; secondly, a delay in investment in the structure of gross domestic product resulting from the suspended implementation of infrastructure projects and a delay in the funds under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and operational programmes to be invested in the economy. Unfortunately, both major groups of risks to the Bulgarian economy came true with great strength. The government also failed to attract international investors. The strategic investors promised by Kiril Petkov in 2021 not only did not appear but also certified investments under the Investment Promotion Act announced so far are only 115 million. lv. By June 2021, under the management of the Political Party GERB, certified investment projects were worth 840 million. BGN, or we're down 86%. To date, we have not seen any legislative or other measure in favour of attracting foreign investment. Bulgaria is already missing from the international map of investment interests. During the discussion of the budget update, I had the opportunity to share many facts, conclusions and concerns. I won't do it again today. However, I cannot fail to confirm my belief that the lack of an updated three-year budget forecast and management programme with its priorities and policies is a symptom of management weakness and only legitimizes behind-the-scenes games in the coalition. In this way, the rules of publicity and transparency are destroyed, and short-term populism is becoming a major tool for the survival of this governance. Because of the inadequate policy of the government, the population loses rapidly its wealth and purchasing power, dramatically declines the competitiveness of the business. The draft update lacks reforms that are valued and dressed in public reforms, we are offered a piece of work that can lead to the expectations of citizens lasting social effect. On the contrary, inequalities and opposition will deepen. You've shown that you're the best at this. The budgetary update also provides for a zero year for municipalities. There's no money for them. According to the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria in autumn there will be bankruptcy of municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u15	Mr. Ananiev, just a moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u16	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u17	All right, finish up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u18	Unfortunately, the government cannot cope with any of the crises in Bulgaria, followed the events, and the measures were inadequate and insufficient. I'm done. The conclusion is that the government's fiscal policy is of an election nature, totally remote from the real needs of society and neglecting the need for the state to remain financially stable. We therefore believe that government policy in the field of public finances poses a threat to financial and hence national security. In relation to the above, we propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision for a vote of mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Cyril Petkov on the failure of the government in financial and economic policy. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Let's move on, guys. I'm opening the discussion. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u20	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Members of the National Assembly! What we heard puzzled me. I have carefully read your motives. These are really amazing. I quote: There is a record export, but with a nominal figure, which is the result of the lost uncontrollable inflation. "You have economists with you, what does that mean? It means that some Bulgarian companies have managed to export their goods and services at high prices on the external markets. This can happen for two reasons: one is higher added value, the second is inflation on the external markets, but it cannot be based on inflation in Bulgaria. This cannot be an economic argument. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] This type of wrong economic suggestion has been constantly made in the last six months. Let me quote another line from you and another one from your motives. Quote: The preliminary data of the NSI showed us that the growth in the first quarter was 4%, not 4.5%, and signaled that the economic collapse had really started.! The same fact can be presented as follows: Bulgaria has had higher growth in the first quarter of 2022 than Germany, which is growing by 3.7%, but we will never hear this from you. [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] So let me give you some real facts that were part of the achievements of this government: we increased the minimum wage from 670 to 710 BGN.; we supported the young families with additional tax relief; for the first time in Bulgaria we have free nurseries and kindergartens; 100 million for sports and cultural camps; we continued the program together. For pensioners: the minimum pension was increased from 300 to 370 BGN, and now in July in the update we offered to reach 467 BGN. This is an unprecedented increase of 55% within a year, which has not happened in the last 12 years. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] We've increased the budget by 315 million. lv. and for the education system, which ensures that the average teacher's salary will be 25% more than the average salary in the country. For doctors: a dignified remuneration, which, as an integral part of the collective contract, will become BGN 2000 as the basic salary of a doctor, and for a nurse - BGN 1500. For personal doctors there is a 38% increase in incomes compared to last year. This is a prerequisite to attract young specialists and this is mostly in the interests of patients as well. For people with disabilities, we have provided additional support of 282 million. lv. The measures that we further foresee with the budget update - zero per cent VAT for bread; 25 cents reduction of gasoline and diesel; exemption of excise duty for electricity and liquefied gas; reduction of the rate of 9% for heating. For business, we have adopted programmes to support and mitigate unstable electricity and gas prices of a total of 3.5 billion. lv. The prices for the electricity business did not really rise above the electricity prices from last October. For the domestic consumer, electricity prices remained the same. All this while oil on international markets rose 54% from the beginning of this government, and the price of gas in the last 12 months went up three times, and you know very well that this is the real reason for inflation, but you also do not share it. In all this social support and support to the business, the Bulgarian government has managed to accomplish all this, keeping the deficit at 4.1%, and with the new update, and with the new measures this deficit will remain unchanged. The debt is falling! The debt is reduced by 31.2 billion. lv. at the end of last year to 30.5 billion. lv. According to Eurostat, Bulgaria is the third country in the European Union with the lowest debt, as a percentage of GDP after Estonia and Luxembourg. [[Applause from the Council of Ministers Continue the Change.]] It is absolutely false the claim that the treasury has run out of money. In the fiscal reserve we currently have 9.3 billion. lv. with a minimum legal requirement of 4,5 billion lv. Unlike the information that you submitted, the positive credit rating from Finch and SNP is confirmed. For European funding. In December 2021, we completed a zero year for fresh European funds without submitted operational programmes and with a blocked recovery and development plan. In a few months, European funds have been cut off, the 13 billion recovery and development plan has been approved by stopping the construction of a new gas plant and not shutting down coal plants. [[Applause from the Council of Ministers Continue the Change.]] The Partnership Agreement for new operational programmes of 22 billion. lv. it was finalized. Some of the other good results of the government: The Bulgarian Development Bank, which we talked so much about, came to profit in the first quarter and gave over 80 loans to small and medium-sized companies. During the Fund Fund we announced another 96 million for the Recovery Program, we activated support for startups, at the end of the first quarter 170 Bulgarian start-ups received funding. In the field of tourism, we are seeing growth of Bulgarian and foreign tourists "about 40%," while the growth of foreign tourists is only 2.5 times. In the field of transport we restored the stable parameters for the operational financial functioning of the Bulgarian railways. We've suspended inefficient contracts for infrastructure construction. We created new plans to improve border crossings and launched a new ferry connection.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u21	And a plane.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u22	We agreed with the Romanian country for the first time for pre-project fames for the construction of five new bridges over the Danube. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Health care. Although healthcare is not directly in the focus of economic indicators, in this case I have to share that the new model of management of the mold crisis based on intensive beds has given us the chance to go through the fifth wave without a national lockdown, with full optimal load on the health system and without interruption of the educational process. [[((Applause from the Council of Ministers Continue the Change.)]] These are just some of the economic results we achieved in these six months during wartime, unprecedented energy crisis, cod, huge inflation introduced due to high gas and oil prices. In this sense, I suppose that today's vote of mistrust is not a real function of the achieved results in the field of economics, but really based on other results of ours. I suppose the reasons are perhaps the following: the conquest of the border with Captain Andreevo in the last 10 years of the seven ministers, no one had noticed that a company close to the person named Razi Chekaryan or the so-called Ami had actually privatized the entry point between Asia and Europe. [[Applause from the Council of Ministers Continue the Change.]] As a direct example for the last 12 months, only 2200 thousand were stopped under this private laboratory. er ng vegetables and fruit with pesticides. Today, in just 30 days, the levels of detection of vegetables and fruits with pesticides are four times more. As a result of the checks, we also found restrictions in the free competition of illegal, opaque, non-economic spending of public funds of 8.3 billion. lv. And let me say, more specifically,....three billion. lv. illegal inhouse awards under the Project of the Motorway?Hemus?; one billion for Vidin? Botevgrad; 569 million illegal in house awards to strengthen landslides; 2.5 billion awards of major repairs under the cover of current repairs; 908 million orders by the 27 largest municipalities based on only one rated bid. Or is the vote because of the first steps of judicial reform? We shut down the Specialized Court and the D.A.'s office...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u23	You? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u24	...we closed the gold passports, Mr. Tsatsarov resigned from his post, we introduced a new KKCONPI Act with a proposal for Mr. Rashkov to head this anti-corruption commission. Together with the Recovery and Development Plan, we have set up a mechanism for investigating the Attorney General, a procedure has been launched before the Supreme Judicial Council on the early release of the Attorney General and the ongoing judicial battle. Or maybe this vote is because of the total revision of sports and sports federations, clubs and sports property and companies owned by the Ministry of Sports? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Or perhaps, perhaps, the vote is because of the real diversification of Russian gas? [[Applause from the Council of Ministers Continue the Change.]] The Greek bond that you could not build for so many years will now be ready in July. [[(Applause from the Council of Ministers Continue the Change.) Laughter, noise and lines by GERB-SDS.)]] The actual filling of the gas has already begun. Or that we started an investigation into a Turkish stream, which, apart from costing us 3 billion. BGN, didn't give us any diversification, and maybe we'll find out why exactly the contractor of this project gave a new SUV to Mrs. Arnaudova's husband? Dear Members of the National Assembly, the truth is one thing: this government will not allow itself to be stolen from the Bulgarian taxpayer [[(Applause from.. We continue the Change..........................................................................................]] , and those who have done it before will sooner or later come to real justice. Unfortunately, because of these motives, you must make your decision tomorrow, and you have the real chance to bring the state into a political crisis during war, to miss the historic time to move judicial reforms, to bring back Russian gas, despite payment in rubles, not to adopt 23 laws that are needed to absorb 13 billion from the Recovery and Development Plan. Here I would like to address all MPs, especially those of "There is such a people." We know that many of you have entered with pure goals and thought and did not think that your leaders would throw Bulgaria at random at this critical moment. You are the ones who depend on seven million Bulgarians at the moment. I call on you to think again of your oath as MPs. There is neither Mr. Trifonov, nor Mr. Borisov, nor Ahmed Dogan, nor Mrs. Mitrofanova. You have said the following words: I vow, in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria, to observe the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. Thank you. [[(Bourney and long applause by the Council of Ministers We continue the Change.) MPs Tosko Yordanov and Stanislav Balabanov are becoming and clapping continuously to Prime Minister Kiril Petkov.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u25	Mr. Yordanov, Mr. Balabanov, please take your seats. [[National Representative Toshko Yordanov continues to applaud, looking at Prime Minister Kiril Petkov.]] Mr. Yordanov, please take your seat. [[National Representative Toshko Yordanov continues to applaud, looking at Prime Minister Kiril Petkov.]] Colleagues, for a statement? Mr. Yordanov, you are disturbing the court! To address Mr. Nikola Minchev. Here you go, Mr. Minchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u26	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers, Members of Parliament! We are facing the first vote of mistrust of the current government. As you know, in our new history, not a single vote of no confidence has been successful so far, but judging by the preliminary demands of political leaders, we may also have a breakthrough this time. But let's see. What I would like to mention is mentioned by the Prime Minister at the end of his speech to think about the situation in which we are looking at the current vote of mistrust and what we can achieve with the political instability that we would inevitably cause if the vote were successful. Is it a good idea to throw our country into a political crisis at a time when on the territory of our continent, less than 1,000 km away, there is a war going on, the consequences of which we know little only from our common culture, but never from personal experience. Would it be useful for the state to throw it into another early parliamentary elections with questionable potential to produce a clear majority? And would it be responsible to leave the country without a working parliament at a time when the Recovery and Sustainability Plan requires reforms that, if we do not, we will block billions of euros? And since the motives say that the current government is a threat to national security, let's think about it, if what I've described happens, how it affects national security. Let us also think about what the Bulgarian citizens sent us to parliament because the citizens sent us here for a mandate and in the mandate the implementation is according to the mandate. Did they send us for a political crisis or to give them stability, predictability and reforms? These are questions that each of us must answer and find answers within ourselves before we approach the current vote of mistrust. Because, colleagues, if last week was the dress rehearsal, this week is the correctional. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] Finally, at the beginning, I started with previous votes of distrust................... At the beginning of 2005, in February, the new majority in the then Thirty-nineth National Assembly voted the early release of the President of Parliament. A few days later, there's a vote of no confidence. The vote doesn't pass. So there's a return. Thank you. [[Applause from the Council of Ministers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u27	Thank you, Mr. Minchev. Are there any lines to that statement? I won't. Any other speeches, colleagues? Anyone who wants to make a statement? Venice Angova. Here you go, Mrs. Angova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The lives of us youngsters this week are at a crossroads, a one-way ticket. My schoolmates have long gone, they are already far from their home and family. My godparents are gone, I don't know their children and they don't know about me. Young doctors left because there were no specialization places in Bulgaria, but who would blame them? And yet some of us stayed. I stayed here because here is the house that my grandfather built with both hands; here is the home of my son; in this land are buried the bones of my father; here is the family that raised me, and the family that I created; despite the ruined roads, despite the falling tiles on the pavements, the missing children's hospital, the little ambulance; although three times in a row there is no room for my child in a manger! It's not just me. There are still enough people in Bulgaria and abroad who want change. We want her here to stay, they want her to come back. We won the elections because the majority of voters demanded and believed that Bulgaria should and could be a normal European state. We have borne the burden of our country's last hope. But now we know what we are doing is changing Bulgaria and the result is the resistance of the new opposition coalition. They're in pain and they've done everything they can against us. Today is an example of this. A one-way ticket, but not an escape ticket. A ticket to change. The people have banned the opposite turn to the status quo. Because what will be the future of Bulgaria if we continue along the same trajectory as in the last 12 years? Fear, dependence, poverty, corruption. Here's what awaits us if the gray cardinals succeed in pushing their interests to a sustainable level. Social policy. Social policy will probably not be there, because in the words of our opposition leaders in crisis, money is not given to the needy, because if you see, it will increase inflation. Justice. Justice will be pseudo-justice. It will continue to be a pillar of quiet conversations during white and mothball cap parties, hiding the baldness of our justice system. Finance. Public finances will flow like full-water rivers, but not towards people, but towards a handful of feudals in a cycle of financial slavery. Economics. The economy will be an economy of absorption of funds through corruption and low wages, without developing the potential of Bulgaria, again last in everything! Education. Everyone's gonna be high school students, so what? These young people won't be able to think. Health care. There will be no medical people, they will have emigrated outside, where they will live decently according to their profession. Children's hospital won't be there, but hospitals and ambulances for MPs will be there. Media. And the little breeze of hope will really be gone and the heavy choking fog of suggestion, untruths, and conspiracy will be caught. And the saddest, esteemed colleagues of the Bulgarians will emigrate and remember the poor Bulgaria, but no longer with the songs of Slavi Trifonov. No, absolutely not! This dark future of idiocy I do not accept, this is not my future! We are fighting for another future for the future of normality. In our Bulgaria public finances are invested in the tunnel below Shipka peak, in new trains, in medical helicopters and worthy remuneration for young doctors. In our Bulgaria, the best minds in the world are created and we are proud of our inventions and our achievements. Our Bulgaria is the best place to raise your child. In Bulgaria, you are not afraid to grow old because you will live in your last years with dignity and high head. Our Bulgaria is the rule of law and the law is for everyone. Our Bulgaria brings people home because there is no better place to live. This Bulgaria is possible if the dream is stronger than fear, if will is stronger than passivity, if truth is stronger than disinformation, if faith is stronger than despair. The vote of mistrust today is not an attack by the opposition against the Bulgarian government. The vote of mistrust today is an attack on the non-change against change, the convenient against the progressive, of the deep state against the just state. It is not an attack on the cabinet's common policy, not on our budget plan, not on economic policy! This, honourable partners and opponents, is an attack against something much bigger "This is another organized attack of the status quo against the faith of Bulgarian citizens that after 12 years of roadlessness Bulgaria can really be another! I am Venice and I became a member of parliament at the age of 32 because I believed that Bulgaria could be our Bulgaria. I'm here, I still believe. And you? Thank you. [[Applause from the Council of Ministers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Angova. Mr. Balabanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Angova, from your words and zealous speech I realized that you yourself are worried about your own future as a young person and are wondering which direction to take. Don't worry, you are appointed to parliament and you are a member of parliament, your husband is appointed to parliament and is a member of parliament. At all, your family is well at the moment, as you are getting enough. What are you worried about? Or maybe you're worried this will be over soon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u31	Are there any other lines, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angova, the truth is that all those things you said are not true. Bulgaria was thrown into an accident only because one person and two of its employees decided so at this time. It's not Macedonia, it's not the crisis, it's just their ego. And when we learn that when we enter this room, we must leave the ego at the door and think about the interests of the Bulgarian people, only then will we move forward. Thank you. [[Applause from the Council of Ministers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u33	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Is there a third line, colleagues? I can't see. A hole, Mrs. Angova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u34	I'm going to be very brief. I'm actually just going to say a few words. Desperate is clearly so intense that when there is nothing else to attack, the individual is attacked. Thank you. [[Applause from the Council of Ministers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Angova. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u36	My speech is directed at Mr. Ananiev and the rather clumsy motives for this vote. Colleagues, you should have chosen something else, not economic policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u37	What prognosis is not correct?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u38	Okay. Let it begin from there, Mr. Ananiev, you said that at the moment the government is leading, I quote: "Policy of high deficit, growth of imports, enslaveing debt and that the fiscal reserve is at the critical minimum. " End quote. Let's start in a row. High deficit. The deficit is 4.1% with a form of measures, 2.5% without a form of measures, just as it was approved by Parliament at the end of January, and you also voted for this budget. This is the deficit in Bulgaria. It is, I would like to point out, one of the lowest deficits in the European Union this year.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u39	What's on a charged basis?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u40	It's about 1% higher than what I said. [[Noise and lines.]] Import growth. With 55% increase in fuel prices and three times increase in gas prices, we both import them, I don't know if that's news, it can't help but increase imports, which is good that exports are growing a lot, and exports, even when we remove the effect of inflation, are growing by 20%. He's growing up in absolutely all the stock groups. The total increase in exports to third countries outside the European Union is 27.5%: food and live animals.. 25,6%; non-alcoholic, alcoholic beverages and tobacco....13,5%; animal and vegetable fats, oils and waxes....14,8%; chemical substances and products...40,5%; machinery and equipment.. 19%; all other diverse products and so on.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is, colleagues, exports are growing and it is not growing because of your prop that you say is growing because of arms exports, but it is growing in absolutely all areas of the economy. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Slave duty, Mr. Ananiev. We have found a debt of 31 billion. The Commission therefore concludes At present, the debt is 30 billion. 462 million. leva, or he's reduced. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] If the debt we have at the moment is enslaving, then you have enslaved the state. [[(Applause and cheering.) Bravo!......................................................................................................]] But he's not enslaving. It is not enslaving because Bulgaria continues to have the third lowest debt to gross domestic product in the European Union, because our debt to gross domestic product is 25% on a minimum requirement, i.e. the maximum allowed debt of 60% under the Maastricht criteria. Croatia was accepted in the euro area with 80% debt to gross domestic product. Is Croatia enslaved, too?! Germany has more than 100% debt to gross domestic product. Is Germany enslaved too?! What we're seeing right now is a debt that's low. This is due to a long policy that you have conducted in Bulgaria. This policy can be congratulated in its aspect of keeping the main parameters of the state low. As you know, when we adopt the budget, we have a very serious difference with you in whether the low parameters as a self-target are worth it. And my answer is no. The low debt and deficit parameters should not come at the expense of impoverishing people and should not come at the expense of the state not making the investments that are needed. These low parameters, along with the huge amount of theft of public resources, are the reason we don't have roads, no hospitals, no doctors abroad, no normal education. And the pensioners, when we found them, a million and a half of them would be below the poverty line. Now they're not. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And as people may wonder if the philosophy that you offer them, by the name of a finance minister whom your party broadcasts, is this philosophy that you offer to the Bulgarian people or the balanced policy that this government is leading is better. Let me read to you how they relate to this policy those who should lend loans to Bulgaria, international investors. Fitch's rating from June 18th, fresh-pressed, everything inside. Economic development in the first quarter of 2022 remained surprisingly well. Fitch Ratings continue to expect moderate growth acceleration in 2023 to 3.8% due to much stronger investments related to the EU funds that we have negotiated and which are already being spent in the Bulgarian economy. Fitch Ratings predict that the budget deficit will increase to 4.9% on a charged basis, as you said, of GDP driven mainly by support measures. These measures against which you have declared yourselves to leave the poor poor. They expect the deficit to decrease to 2.9% of GDP in 2023 with a reduction in spending pressure. Despite the large deficits, Bulgaria's level of public debt will remain very low compared to the EU countries and those with a BBB rating. Nobody's worried about the deficit or the debt. If you don't trust Fitch, let's see what our German colleagues think. Mr. Lindner, Germany's Finance Minister, here in Sofia, said: I highly appreciate Bulgaria's efforts as a partner. We support Bulgaria and congratulate it on the stability of the state finances, which is an inspiration for us. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] One more thing. It is extremely impressive what Bulgaria has achieved in terms of financial stability. We can only learn from the Bulgarian experience and from the implementation of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Do you know why this is so, Mr. Ananiev? This is because our Sustainability Plan was adopted and in our Sustainability Plan we managed to keep our coal industry and did not pass on gas. That's why colleagues take it as inspiration and want to learn from us. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Because if we had adopted a sustainability plan, in which we would now have to enslave 1 billion. 200 million. For the construction of a gas plant...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u41	It was the caretaker government, your caretaker government.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u42	...then we would be wondering where to get gas and for this gas plant and we wouldn't be able to keep electricity prices either for bits or for business. Regarding the so widely quoted recommendations of the European Commission to Bulgaria. I will read the recommendation, which you most often quote: "In 2023, to ensure Bulgaria that the growth of the current expenditure financed at national level is in line with a generally neutral policy position, taking into account the ongoing temporary and targeted support for the most vulnerable groups from the rise in energy prices for households and businesses and people fleeing Ukraine. To be ready to adapt the current costs to the changing situation. The exact same recommendation was given to Germany. The exact same recommendation, identical language, is given to France. This is the recommendation of the European Commission to all Member States. In the 27 countries there is exactly this recommendation with these exact words, to the comma the same. I can guarantee you that the European Commission will not initiate an excessive deficit procedure against the 27 Member States. And that is clearly said, so stop speculating on this topic! Let's go to investment in Bulgaria. In the first quarter, investments this year are 883 million. Euros.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u43	Where did you see them?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u44	From BNB. This is BNB's data. I haven't seen Kiril Ananiev's data. I work with BNB's data. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Last year, for the first quarter, it was 244 million.. 883 compared to 244 last year. Open BNB, read the data and stop lying to the Bulgarian people! Investments went up more than three and a half times last year. That's it, according to the BNB. The investments also went up by one and a half times compared to 2020. 2020 was 647 million, now 883. Once and a half compared to 2020 Should I tell you in 2019? Twice they climbed 431 million is 2019. And 2018 was 53 million. They climbed a little over 15 times compared to 2018. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] So we can go back in line by 2010. Let me tell you, you still want to know them: 2010. ==References=====External links==* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further reading* "Further readings. "Further readings"* "Further readings. .. 10; 2012............................................................... The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, ==References=====External links==* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* Or in each of the previous 12 years foreign investments were in times less than foreign investments in the first quarter this year. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Mr. Ananiev, I'm continuing on your point of reference. You say that the interest payments that Bulgaria will pay this year are twice as high as those in the countries of Central Europe. Even if we issue debt today and apply the spread we have on German bonds, we will be at interest rates that are about half as much as Hungary's interest rates. Right, Central and Eastern Europe. You know very well why Bulgaria has not come out on external markets so far. Bulgaria prepared to go to external markets, the preparations took about a month after the budget, the adoption of a budget, then a war broke out on February 24th, which closed the external debt markets especially in Eastern Europe. Are we going to be able to handle the gas shut-down? We did it. Will we be able to cope with the presence of grain in the country? We did it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u45	Do they have nipples? Do they produce nipples?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u46	Will we be able to cope with not getting into inflation similar to that in Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia and so on? We did it. You know what inflation is in Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia? Shall I tell you? If we go to Estonia, just to find out where my data is, so I don't have to speak by heart Romania just to say it is 12.4%, that is, 1% difference we have with Romania. Inflation is a pan-European problem and a global problem, as we have seen. We saw that there was an extraordinary gathering of the European Central Bank to take measures so as to reduce inflation throughout Europe. Inflation can be easily reduced when interest rates rise, you know it well. Interest rates are raised by the European Central Bank and this has a direct impact on BGN as we have a fixed rate lev-euro and you know that. I know that it is politically convenient to talk nonsense, but if we want to have a real economic debate on how the crisis can be better managed, we are open at any moment to this debate. What I hear from you is not a suggestion of how better to manage the crisis, it is not a proposal how people who are most hit by inflation can be protected. What I'm hearing is populist slogans and economic philosophy, which, if I can sum up in one sentence, is: "Fuck the poor." [[Voices of ARGUMENT: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u47	This is Ivan Kostov's.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u48	That's your economic philosophy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u49	Mr. Vassilev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u50	I apologize for the rude language.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u51	This language is not suitable in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u52	But this is the economic philosophy that you are preaching: let us not raise pensions because inflation will rise. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u53	No, we didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u54	Not only would we have destroyed the foundations of Bulgarian financial discipline, if we raised pensions, you said so.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u55	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u56	Let's not help the businesses that are in need. Let's cut the budget deficit. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u57	Colleagues, I ask for silence, you will have the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u58	So there is no money for business, neither for teachers, nor for doctors, nor for investments that need to be completed, nor for social programs and the poorest in the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u59	Don't manipulate people. Substitute Minister-Presiding Assent Vasilev Such economic policy this government will not lead. You have led it for the last 12 years and as a result we have achieved the greatest division between the poor and the rich in Europe, the largest! The inequality ratio has increased from 30% to 40% to the Ginny index. This is what we find in this country, and that is why some 400,000 people are leaving the country and looking for the future outside Bulgaria, because the policy that you have conducted for the last 12 years has been aimed at making the rich rich richer and the poor remain poor. The policy that this government is currently leading is to help the poor so that they are not below the poverty line, to invest in education, in health care and in infrastructure, so that all the people of Bulgaria can benefit from both the EU funds and taxes, and not the money to flow into bars, stacks and drawers. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u60	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. With regard only to this line, which you made at the end of your speech, you are perfectly aware that it is extremely inappropriate, and you apologized accordingly. Please don't do this again in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u61	But by the rules of procedure, it's a resignation, it's not an excuse.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u62	Lord Ganev, are you in? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u63	Mr President, you have opened today's session with a clear threat to everyone, especially the opposition, of course, that they will be expelled from this House as soon as we vote on the resignation of this government, by making one eviction for two days, tomorrow will not be able to vote on the one you expelled. You started with a clear warning, you threatened us directly that you would chase us because of this kind of cynicism. And if I say out of this tribune, "Fuck the poor!" You'll turn your tongue and kick me out right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u64	Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u65	But this thing that is happening at the moment of a no-confidence vote, to become the minister of finance and with cynicism to speak such things, to use such expressions, and to address others who are in this room, and to the people who are outside, is, to put it mildly, cynicism. I didn't think if someone in the opposition had said that thing what would happen next?! And those in the ruling coalition would be up right now lynching someone else. So I ask you very much the next time you threaten us both by chasing us and by fighting yourself that you will do your best to prevent a fight and whatever happens next, because here your colleagues from your parliamentary group have caused the last fight thanks to the expressions of each other...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u66	Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u67	... Marching with the flag of Azov from the BSP, I ask you very specifically to take away the word of anyone, to anyone, let alone to the Minister of Finance to insult and say lines of the type: to suck the shit out of the poor!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u68	Mr. Ganev, you don't have the honor of repeating those words twice from the stands. I made a remark to Minister Vassilev. The use of these words was unacceptable by this tribune was not a manifestation of cynicism, and you know it perfectly well in the context of the whole speech. And I didn't scare anyone off. I warned that there would be no tolerance for aggression, regardless of which parliamentary group. I didn't say in my statement the opposition. My call was to everyone. Are you here for procedure, Mr. Mitev? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u69	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. The truth is that cynicism is when you say that you are for the Bulgarian people and you vote against the update of the budget. That's cynical, Mr. Ganev! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Not telling the truth from the stands. You're cynical with your vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u70	Mr. Mitev, and to you a verbal remark because your procedure was not for me and you entered into a direct dialogue with Mr. Ganev. Is there anyone who wants to speak? There were a lot of comments from the place while Mr. Vassilev was speaking. [[(Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria]] Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u71	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, honourable Members! My speech will be entirely of the coalition agreement, I will be pragmatic and constructive according to what is signed as a coalition agreement. First of all, I'm gonna go with the financials part and the economics part because I think this is today's debate. In the part of the finances, I would just like to present the defaulted and violated points in the financial sector as well as in the economy. Firstly, we had a section of budgetary principles in Finance. It is recorded: by mid 2022, a time plan had to be drawn up for the reforms proposed by the other groups with estimates of their financial security by mid 2022, as I said. It refers to all those sectors that are applying the coalition agreement. No such plan has been presented. Such a plan was not made. Secondly, there is not a quote: the introduction of total capital budgeting in the country until mid 2022 and the adoption of a multiannual capital programme as part of the budget. Mandatory use of cost analysis supposed benefits, taking into account the effectiveness of capital investments to the public. " At least in the coalition we have not discussed such a plan. I'm moving on. Third, in t. 9 of the application "Financials" it stated that by June 2022 it was to be developed and financially provided Capital Support Plan for the Bulgarian business through grant schemes and financial instruments in the field of production and services. I personally have not seen such a plan and my colleagues also hope, because we were at least until the beginning of June in the coalition and such a plan was not presented. Next thing you know, I want to focus. Point 11 in the coalition agreement. There is no indication of the execution of a t. 11, and in particular, I quote this. 11: Active work with municipalities to develop a model for fiscal decentralisation, ready for introduction with the new budget in 2023. No such active cooperation or work has started until at least the middle of the year, but only until the introduction of the new budget for 2023 I mean, there are less than three months left. The next thing I would like to highlight, this is in control and, in particular, this. 27. Notice, there I have insisted the most on this point, I have insisted that there be such an interinstitutional council on inflation processes in the country, minimum meetings every three months, which an interinstitutional council, which must also monitor the process of introducing the euro. Such meetings have not been, we have not had, that is to say, this is another reason why the dynamics and the level of observed inflation should be the subject of discussion at the relevant meetings. We have not once had such a meeting with a discussion on inflation dynamics in terms of such an interinstitutional council. The next.................................................................... 30 of the coalition agreement. Point 30 provided for transparency and traceability of the criteria, the announcement, implementation and reporting of the results of public procurement to citizens and, I stress to citizens, the removal of the necessary legislative changes for publicity and control, including on the inhouse award. If a ministry like the MRDP didn't do it, then the Ministry of Finance didn't do it and didn't do it. 30? I'm going this way. Personally, I have insisted on removing duplicate functions and structures in the state administration, setting up shared services centres, which would lighten things up and end corrupt practices, repeating to end and eliminate corrupt practices, but notice the deadline we set ourselves by June 2022 to analyse the possibilities for the state population optimization of the public sector by 15%. I've never seen such an analysis, and it still doesn't have that analysis. Point 35 of the Coalition Agreement. For this point in particular several times in the last two years I insist that it is related to the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, on several occasions I insist that the convergence report of the European Central Bank says what needs to be changed in the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. And, notice, the draft Law on KKCONPI has not changed the part about the Bulgarian National Bank. Is this the change of the law? Is that the change? If we wanted to change the KKCONPI Act, we had to comply with the recommendations of the European Central Bank in the convergence report. I'm moving on so I don't waste too much of my colleagues' time. In one of the last points for the euro area was written: the Finance Department and the Bulgarian National Bank to prepare an analysis of the costs and benefits of the adoption of the euro. I'm going into economics to be precise about what we're debating today. In the part, the economy was intended to establish uniform standards and I have personally very much insisted that there be uniform standards of processes in public administration and the introduction of controls for the purpose of eliminating, stressing, corruption. The discussion of uniform standards has not yet begun. Which working group has discussed uniform standards so far? Not one! Next thing you know, I'm preparing a 100-day project to remove 100 obstacles. How many obstacles have been removed, how many days have they been removed after seven months? The next thing I would like to talk about is the establishment of an interdepartmental commission between the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the private sector and other stakeholders for analysis and taking measures before arbitration procedures against Bulgaria are initiated. Notice, there is no interagency commission at this time. I won't! That's the truth. What have you done for seven months on this interdepartmental commission? This is a point in the Coalition Agreement in the Economics section. Next, an analysis of the update of the Public Enterprises Act and precise preparation of a regulation implementing the Public Enterprises Act. We haven't discussed this kind of analysis yet, not done that kind of analysis. I'm very clear and specific, and I insisted that this get into that point, but at least six or seven months there is no analysis. Didn't we say that by the middle of the year, these analyses will be over?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Yeah, I'm coming. As the last thing that is very important is attracting European and international equity funds for large-scale growth of Bulgarian start-ups. Well, tell me how attracted they are, who are these international funds, where can start-ups turn to them? Finally, this concludes, stimulating transformation processes in terms of investment savings in order to increase local and foreign investment. How do we stimulate these transformation processes? So far, no programme has been presented for these processes exactly how they will be stimulated. Finally, Bulgaria had to become a logistics and financial hub by opening financial centres of multinational companies and attracting those with transport networks. Please inform me how many such companies we have accepted in Bulgaria, how many companies have established themselves, how many have created such transport networks? That's what I'm done with. I have a lot more points, but my time is limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u72	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Are there any lines, coworkers? Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Karimansky, don't be so angry. There are things to be done. Ask and we'll answer. Now you'll be very pleased. I take occasion specifically for the topics that you and I have discussed together at the Coalition Council and then at the beginning of their realization. As we have discussed many times with you, after decades of discussions and analyses on shared services in the administration, the first pilot unit for shared services in the field of human resources in the administration of the Council of Ministers has actually been created. It serves the Ministry of Innovation and Growth, the Ministry of Electronic Governance and... [[Relations from the National Representative Toshko Yordanov.]] I'm sorry, do I have to answer the lines they're tossing?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u74	Mr. Yordanov, members of the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u75	I respond to specific accusations of unfinished business under the Coalition Agreement. Mr. Karimansky and I have discussed these measures during the negotiating tables. So I want to refer to the things that he claims are unfulfilled, and to tell you where the things that I have a commitment to are. Twelve employees in the unit serve administrations with a total of 1153 employees. So the first unit has been created and it will in fact in the coming months involve other ones of its own, to call them already, customers, that is, administrations. By 1 August 2022, that is to say, within the next two months, he is also working on a Centre for Shared Accounting Services in the Administration of the Council of Ministers, and he will serve the Ministry of Finance something that you can see in their Rules of Procedure, which is already uploaded for public consultation, all 28 regional administrations, two state committees and all secondary officers with a budget to the Administration of the Council of Ministers. That is, the Centre will replace more than 40 separate units. Specifically for the restructuring and optimization of the administration. As you yourself said, until this month there was a process in which all administrations had to submit their restructuring plans, and we are discussing them and looking at them in the Administrative Reform Council. The truth is that there are a lot of administrations that actually plan smaller optimizations than what we have staked below 15%, which is why we asked them to revise. We give ideas and we work with them on where they can take and make bigger changes. What has been my particular commitment, along with the prime minister's team, is that we have actually drawn up a draft for the overall restructuring of the Council of Ministers administration, whose structure has not actually moved since 1998, and there we have found nearly 200 employees in the general administration, 62 of which are working in the office, including internal couriers on each floor. So within a month and a half the administration of the Council of Ministers will actually be optimized by over 15% of the total number of employees, with optimization in the general administration being over 28%. We presented this to the Administrative Reform Council a few weeks ago to all our colleagues. I would like to tell you, which you will also very much like, specifically, because we have spoken on this subject, is that despite the optimization, with the new Rules of Procedure we are also introducing many key strategic functions that have been lacking in this country so far. Three new units are such for better regulation in order to facilitate administrative burdens, such as strategic planning, which is something you understand very well, and coordination with other departments that fully correspond to the recommendations made by the OECD in their latest report, if you have seen it. Thank you. [[Applause from the government and we continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Konstantinova. Dear colleagues, does any of the groups want to express their attitude to what Mrs. Konstantinova said? One moment, Mr. Bojankov. Do you really want to talk about the same thing? But in the context of what Mrs. Konstantinova said? Another topic. Colleagues, does anyone want to express their attitude? [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Wait a minute. That's not true, Mr. Karimanski. 59 is given. [[Heckling]] Svilensky, yes, excuse me, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Bojanov, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u77	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen of Parliament! In the Ministry of Electronic Governance, we have drawn up a Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, which is discussed in coalition. It includes all the transparency requirements that we agreed on in the Coalition Agreement, which are machine readable data in structured form, opening contracts for all, except under the CPO under art. 13, 14 and 15. Literally today or tomorrow his impact assessment will be approved and will be uploaded for public discussion, so this job is done. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u78	Thank you, Mr. Bojanov. Yes, Mr. Karimansky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u79	It's a single sentence. Notice, we have spoken very clearly and we have recorded it even in the document, if I have to quote again: However, this is not covered by both the Law and you. [[(Shows the government and the parliamentary group of..) We continue the Change.)]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u80	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Is there any lines to Mr. Karimansky's statement, my colleagues? [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor.]] Mr. Svilensky, we've already exhausted this procedure. We're going into lines to Mr. Karimansky's statement. Ivo Atanasov for a line. Mr. Svilensky, then I can give you the floor of procedure, if you like, or a second line. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u81	I'd like to ask Mr. Karimansky this. This is a man who is extremely respected as an expert. Those things that you said from the stand, were they made in writing as a request to the coalition partners? Because I've heard this, I've understood this, I've thought this doesn't work for me. The Parliamentary Group of "There is such a people" is not familiar with what you said.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u82	You're not in this group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u83	I was three days ago, and I'm not talking to you. [[Noise, laughter, lines and applause.]] The only person who raised the question of non-compliance with the Coalition Agreement on a proposal from Teddy and Cezzo in social policy was me. And then whoever is calling here said: "No, we should not be asking these questions right now. " - These two people left our party and are now in another party. Mr. Karimansky, you're an honest man. These things weren't put in a group. What I heard in the room when you were going to negotiations on the budget was Eva Miteva, Mr. Karadzhov, Mr. Toshko Yordanov and so on. Mr. Karadjov dictated the money needed for the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and Toshko Yordanov said to you: "Lyubo, you are going to the negotiations if the money is not given to our ministers in energy and in the Ministry of Public Works, we are bringing down the government. Tell me in front of everyone: was this the occasion or those things that you say? Thank you. [[Applause from the government and the parliamentary group of.. We continue the Change..................................... Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u84	Wait a minute, guys. Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Yordanov, for a personal explanation? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u85	The negotiator lied because I didn't say that we were bringing down the government. I said: "If there is no understanding of the budget, this budget will be difficult and we will stand up for the things we believe are correct. But I didn't say we're bringing down the government. Now, if I say the word everyone knows about a man who speaks untruths, you'll probably punish me, but we'll all think about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u86	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Are there any other lines, colleagues? Here you are, Minister Laurer, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u87	What about the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u88	I'll give you a chance, Mr. Karimansky. [[Replications from the MPs Lyubomir Karimanski and Toshko Yordanov.]] The Minister's statement is in the context of your speech so that you can take some attitude with the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u89	Mr. Karimansky, unlike Deputy Prime Minister Konstantinova, what I have short to say, you won't like it very much. You obviously don't know what's going on in the investment environment or in the start-up environment around us. Over 170 Bulgarian companies received funding this quarter. The first Bulgarian unicorn happened in this quarter, a unicorn funded by huge foreign funds that believe in Bulgarian companies. What is not clear to anyone is why you and your parliamentary group are making public harakiri at the moment in front of the entire Bulgarian people?! You were part of this coalition in all these six months, you could raise all these topics to work actively on them, as was happening on all those you really wanted to insist on. It seems to me that in order to have more foreign investors in our country, the most important thing is trust and stability. On the subject of trust, it is the fight against corruption and the establishment of the rule of law that will really bring it back. So the resistance from the "There is such a people" of the anti-corruption legislation that was supposed to happen in this Parliament all these six months and is raging is yours to explain. Absolutely incomprehensible resistance from you specifically to Bulgaria's entry into the euro is the next question that everyone asks: does Bulgaria want to enter the euro, does the former parliamentary coalition want to enter Bulgaria in time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Karimansky, come in. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, my first line is to Mr. Ivo Atanasov. The coalition agreement is therefore an agreement to be respected by everyone, there is no need for anyone to remind us of anything. Everyone follows the dots in the coalition agreement and when they follow the dots, they must be respected. Personally, Mr. Gurov, if I'm lying, you'll tell me. How many times have I insisted on t. 27 of the Annex - Finance - I have spoken to you personally?! How many times have I insisted on t. 46 of the Coalition Agreement? Here are two specific examples I have insisted on and I have personally insisted on this to you. So much for this, and I think I'm specific. Dear Mr. Lorre, I agree with you exactly on trust. That is why my speech was in the so quoted very often unsuccessful choice for the Bulgarian National Bank. Trust is most important, but when we build the trust of not telling the truth or not telling the truth, because the one who is not telling the truth is a liar. That's nothing but a lie. And how do we explain the fact that in t. 36 is written:......................................................................................................... At the same time, you did not present to any of the coalition councils the Draft Law Change which you yourself accepted. Well, where's the trust then?! I thought we were supposed to have coalition trust between us. Why didn't you introduce us to him? Why didn't we discuss it?! In this way only one is being done, yes, it is probably improving the result of the Bulgarian Development Bank, but at the same time the Deputy Prime Minister as the Minister of Economy has accepted a limit of 5 million per company, we welcomed this thing and I personally welcomed it, but with the change of the Statute it is given the opportunity to exceed this limit of 5 million. And any credit after the second and third months can be found at least one reason, I guarantee you, within the contracts, to be restructuring to bypass the five million limit that has been set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u92	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Here you go, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, ministers, honourable colleagues, dear citizens! My name has been mentioned here and here about t. 46 of the Coalition Agreement. However, I would like to point out to Mr. Karimansky that when the truth is told, the whole truth should be told, not to speak to each other and to quote things exactly as far as it suits us. To read you about those of you who don't want to go online to read. Point 46 of the Coalition Agreement states: "The Ministry of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank to prepare an analysis of the benefits and negatives of the introduction of the euro one year before entering the euro area. " You know very well that the Ministry of Finance and Bulgarian National Bank are currently working on this analysis. It will be drawn up in the next few months exactly in time, as recorded in the Coalition Agreement. And to give you the point to the end: on the basis of this analysis, what needs to be done is to be the basis of a large-scale explanatory campaign before entering the euro. This does not call into question at all the date of entry into the euro, which is in the last sentence of that same point, and it says: "Incoming the euro area as soon as possible. So, Mr. Karimansky, when you quote the Coalition Agreement, please do it in full and do not speak with half-truths. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and cheering "Bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u94	A personal explanation for Mr. Karimansky. With this, we can close this topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u95	Dear Mr. Ghurov, what I have read for a personal explanation... [[Noise and lines.]] I have a right. I do, I do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u96	I've given the floor to Mr. Karimanski.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u97	Mr. Ghurov, what you read, you did it with a break in two places. The first place you interrupted is an analysis of the costs-benefits and one year refers to the information campaign, as written in the National Plan for the adoption of the euro. I guess you haven't read it. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u98	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Here you are, Mrs. Trifonova, for consideration of Minister Laurer's statement you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! Provoked by Minister Laurer, I'd like to share a few things. Firstly, he told us at the end of 2021 that he had a list of investors for very serious figures. As a result, six months later he had certified projects for only 115 million. BGN, and that's five projects. At this time last year, the projects were worth 840 million. BGN, i.e. we have a 86% drop in terms of certified companies, not to mention that up to now only two foreign companies have been certified from its activities. In six months we have two foreign investors, and also that one of the investments that Minister Laurer certified is to a company in whose warehouses the Investment Agency keeps its records, Minister Lorere, I don't know if you're familiar with that fact. As of May 2021, you were bequeathed with GERB input applications for investments of 2.1 billion. lv. So far 1.6 of them have not been certified at all and are staying at the Investment Agency. And that, unfortunately, is not the worst of it. In more than six months you failed to draw up a law, a provision even to encourage investors to come to Bulgaria. You promised amendment of the Investment Promotion Act, instead you took away the Bulgarian Investment Agency and the Bulgarian Development Bank with you, Minister Lorer. You promised one-stop shop service and the introduction of silent consent for business, and it has become a silent inaction of your institutions, Mr. Prime Minister. You were going to speed up the state's payments to the business and speed up the absorption of EU funds. Instead, you stopped them first, and the second you slowed them down and corrupted them. You also promised to stimulate entrepreneurship, and as a result, there has been a 14% drop in newly registered companies since the beginning of the year, and for the first six months compared to 2021. 3331 less registered companies. At the same time, investments of 440 million were announced in Romania. euros in just two months, and in Greece for $4.2 billion. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Trifonova. Mr. Svilensky, you have a say in the statement of Minister Lorer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since there's no other procedure in which to deal, I'm going to use this one and I hope it's the last one for today. Ministers have the right at any time to talk about the topic on the agenda, and parties are not allowed to talk about the political groups. We are entitled to attitude when it is off the agenda or if it now becomes a minister and starts talking to us about Northern Macedonia for example. Ministers shall be entitled at any time, after each Member of the National Assembly, for as long as they wish to take the time to take the matter. I ask you to follow the rules, because otherwise the procedure will go in a completely different direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u102	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. It was rather a procedure in the manner of conduct. Any other speeches, colleagues? Minister Laurer, come in, I hope ten minutes will be enough for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u103	Again regarding Mr. Karimansky's statement. You are aware of the situation in which we found the Development Bank and the change in the Statute of the Development Bank has only one objective of protecting the interest of the state. The change contains only one thing? existing exposures of the Bank, which are already over-limited over 5 million. lv. and may be amended by full agreement of the Council when it comes to a syndicated loan. This is necessary because the heavy legacy of this bank and the loans that are in it from the past force the current leadership to do so in order to protect the state interest. In terms of investments. Under the Investment Promotion Act, I would like to clarify, as the opposition speculates successfully with the numbers, but they are relatively easy to understand. Until the moment of March, when we started certification in view of changes to the Investment Promotion Act, which required an update, in relation to the new structure of the Council of Ministers, we have encouraged not two but eight companies. The figure is 150 million, and the jobs are 1,300. Please don't manipulate citizens with false numbers. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] The next manipulation. The promotion through the Investment Promotion Act is a small part of the investments that enter Bulgaria for the period during which we continue the Change.The Ministry of Innovation and Growth is led by the Ministry of Innovation and Growth, which is announced to be more than 400 million. lv. Last but not least, the Bulgarian Investment Agency, which we found in a miserable state, and have undertaken to turn it into a real motor for promoting Bulgaria not only to foreign but also to domestic investors is currently working on opportunities for investors of over 1.4 billion. lv. In general, foreign direct investment in Bulgaria, which has been repeatedly commented, but you repeatedly ignore these data - foreign investment in Bulgaria during the period of January - April - are triple higher than last year. Three-year-olds, ladies and gentlemen! Triple-larger means that despite the triple crisis we've been having in the country, crises you haven't seen in 12 years. You managed comfortably and still the growth of Bulgaria never reached the levels of Romania, while there grew by 7 This is the result of 10 years of growing chatter. This quarter we are 4% despite the triple crisis and this must be said clearly to the Bulgarian public. [[Reply from the National Representative Kiril Ananiev: "Don't lie to people! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u104	Mr. Ananiev, please! I'll give you the floor after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u105	Mr. Ananiev, Kovid of the crisis, inflation and war in Ukraine created an unprecedented situation and yet we succeeded in this quadruple coalition, which part of our partners are currently promoting and protesting, but they were with us all this time, although we were working at different speeds, we managed to achieve 4% growth for Bulgaria in this quarter. This achievement is worth noting. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Statements, coworkers? Mr. Panev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! It is good that the debate is conducted mainly on the topic of the vote of mistrust, because in the last two weeks it seems that the agenda of parliament is not the right agenda of Bulgaria. The overcoming of several serious crises, which were mentioned by the ministers, namely the high inflation caused by the long years of zero and close to zero interest rates of the major central banks; the war that violates supply chains; the pandemic, which hopefully subsides. On top of that, we also serve ourselves another crisis of ours, internal, political ones, and I don't know if it's the right time for that. That is why perhaps the confidence in parliament is at extremely low levels because MPs enter parliament, then break their promises and leave on a completely different agenda, not the agenda of the voters who have chosen them. Since I am responsible for the vote of mistrust, I have reviewed the numbers of which the importers are talking about, and I can quote some of them: the government debt is currently 21.4% of gross domestic product, comparable to the expected gross domestic product for 2022. To compare, one year ago exactly, at the end of GERB's management was also a good level for the European Union. That is to say, in relative terms, government debt is declining and not increasing. The budget towards the end of May is at a plus of 238 million. lv. It is true that a deficit of 4.1% is set for the year, but it can be prevented by the new majority in parliament if it is decided to reduce pensions, increase VAT rather than reduce or stop road money. This is what the new majority can do if the target is a lower budget deficit. Since the beginning of the year, 1 billion more government debts have been repaid than they have been withdrawn. The State debt actually decreased in 2022. What kind of bankruptcy are we talking about?! The government deposit in BNB, which is the main indicator for the fiscal reserve, was 7 billion at the elections on 4 April 2021. BGN, currently at last Friday is 8.2 billion. lv. A billion and 200 more than it was years ago. Someone said they ran out of money in the country. The numbers speak the other way around, and they increase in the case of declining government debt. That's it, the numbers are talking. And a little bit about the economy. Exports in May rose by nearly 30% compared to May last year, industrial production is 17% higher, almost all sectors of the economy are growing. And the question is, what do we need a pool vineyard for? Along with all the import crises we are talking about so far, the inflation that may continue, as the European Central Bank is not currently able to raise who knows how quickly, because some European countries are going to go bankrupt from this; Russia's war in Ukraine is continuing; the pandemic has not been stopped yet, and ultimately we are serving a new crisis, which will mean perhaps two and a half months without parliament and without the possibility of adopting changes to laws that are, firstly, reformist, secondly, are necessary to obtain the first money under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, which will actually ensure the sustainability of state finances in the medium term. Thank you and I really count on you tomorrow in voting on the conscience of all MPs. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u108	Thank you, Mr. Panev. Are you here for a line, Mr. Ganev? [[Reply by National Representative Tsoncho Ganev.]] Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u109	Mr. Panev, I would just like to comment and quote you that we do not need a pool vineyard, and I will tell you that is the case. We do not need a pool vineyard in this difficult situation, moreover, that the inflation figures in some countries were quoted just a few years ago, which were on a currency board and are currently in the largest growth of their inflation economy. That's right, we don't need a pool vineyard in this situation. You, in your coalition, along with your coalition partners and all the other parties in this Parliament, except for rebirth, want to continue GERB's policy of entering the euro area and introducing the euro in Bulgaria. We do not need this madness to continue, and that is why we believe that this government should go away. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u110	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any other lines, colleagues? I won't. For the coat, Mr. Panev, would you like the floor? No. Any other speeches? Are there any colleagues who wish to speak? I hope we don't get to a situation where I'm gonna end it again... Here you go, Mrs. Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers! I took the floor to talk about pensions because Mr. Vassilev again tried in his emotional speech.. by the way, this is the most emotional minister of finance Bulgaria has had in the latest history, and I think that we will all recognise it.. tried to make suggestions about what was the policy of the previous government, and in particular once again tried to convince that we are against increasing pensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u112	It's a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u113	It's not a fact, Mr. Ananiev, because I've already answered that several times. In the framework of the management of Mr. Borisov in the period 2017 - 2021, the average pension increased by almost 200 BGN. and the supplement of 50 leva. was given precisely during the reign of Mr. Borisov. What we have always done is to bear in mind the financial stability and financial sustainability of the system. What a finance minister here today says is almost something we should ignore. I have one specific question for Mr. Vassilev, and that is precisely: in the case of the increase in pensions, which is currently being proposed, where will the funds for 2023 and 2024 be taken, which amount to billions and for which we do not yet have a three-year budget forecast? I know what will be said: from the point of reference for thefts, the points of support for increased income, for inflation, but let it be good to present a three-year budget forecast, so that we know clearly whether taxes will be raised, whether insurance will be raised, or more loans will be taken to pay pensions. By the way, today our parliamentary group has tabled proposals in the State Social Security Budget Act, with which we propose a 15% increase in pensions, we offer the supplement of 60 BGN. stay for the rest of the year. We demand that the supplements by the end of the year be transformed into social aid for the most vulnerable pensioners from 1 January 2023. We propose that the minimum amount of the pension be BGN 430 so that there is a comparable rate of growth of the other pensions from employment. We propose that the proposed changes for 1 October be dropped because they are not well thought out, are not coherent and have not received broad public consultation with the stakeholders. And what we also offer ultimately amounts to 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. for this year, but in the coming years, it'll be worth 2 billion less. And I am provoked by Mr. Vassilev's speech to also ask him another question, which is outside the topic of pensions, namely why Bulgaria is in the 20th place on the highest inflation in food? Why are food prices 22.7% higher than the National Statistical Institute, and why in Ukraine is food inflation much lower? Why does a country currently at war have lower food prices than in Bulgaria, if it is true that you manage well? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Are there any lines to that statement? Are there any lines, coworkers? Minister Gokov wants to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, when I hear pensions, I can't help but take the floor because you say parts of the truth. Probably 2017 - 2021 has increased some pension at GERB because it remains and does not grow, at least because of the mandatory increase in art. 100 of the Social Security Code. But you're not saying 2009 and 2010 and 2011. He once again managed GERB, with another finance minister, who was mentioned here with his famous expression the post-possible pizza and who did not make an update in violation of the Bulgarian legislation. That's not what you're talking about! You are not talking about things at all since 2017, 2018 and 2019. You are now blaming this government and this way of updating pensions, and you then applied some strange rules in violation of Bulgarian legislation. So that's what I'm saying to you about pensions. Where's next year's money coming from? You made an offer a few minutes ago, put it in the National Assembly, and there you are making not the costs that the government is proposing, but slightly larger. Well, did you say where the money would come from for that raise?! [[Applause from the Council of Ministers.]] So you can tell from your opposition position you see where the money can be taken, and this government, which has all the levers, cannot tell where the money will come from. It's a little weird! The Minister of Finance explained very figuratively what was the policy you led GERB towards the Bulgarians, towards the people. I'm not gonna say it again because it sounds really a little rough, but I'm gonna say something. And I'm going to say it very carefully, and I want you to understand me correctly. It was formed as a result of the huge number of meetings I've made with pensioners. The missionaries considered GERB's government, GERB's policy towards pensioners as genocide towards them. Even they claimed that you were waiting, with your policy, that you would be in power forever and waiting to die most of the people in retirement age to fix pensions then.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u116	How could that happen?! This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u117	That's a rude thing to say. But people say that, I don't say that. I'm just bringing him out of the stands, and it's true. If you want, you can go out with a microphone outside and ask the pensioners what they think about your policy and whether they will repeat the words I say to you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] So very carefully when you talk about pensions and when you talk about incomes to Bulgarian citizens, because you have spent 12 years in your management, already at the last one or two years you have become aware of each other, but all the time you have been leading a terrifying policy for the Bulgarians, putting the financial stability of the systems, including the pension system at the heart of it. There is absolutely nothing wrong with stability, but always and only at the expense of people. Never for anything else ever and only at the expense of the people! Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in, and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u119	Mrs. Sacheva, you may be right that I am a more emotional finance minister, but when it comes to Bulgarian citizens and the most vulnerable groups, I can't help but be emotional. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] I apologized for the rude speech last time, but I urge you to apologize for the rude policy you have had for 12 years. [[Applause and cheering: Claps from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In 2009 GERB came to power, the minimum pension is BGN 136. [[Voice: "Au. "]] On March 31, 2021 GERB goes out of power, the minimum pension is BGN 300. For 12 years.. an increase of 164 BGN. From this 31 March last year until now the minimum pension with the proposed update is up to 467 BGN, or 167 BGN. 12 months increase. In 12 years you have failed to do what our incompetent governments have done in 12 months because of the wrong philosophy, as I said, to Mr. Ananiev just now, I will not repeat the phrase. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria and We are continuing the Change.....................................................................................................]] [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] How are we going to finance this? The share of pensions from gross domestic product in Bulgaria with the envisaged increases that we are betting in the update is 10.4%. The average share of pensions in the European Union is 12.7%. That is, despite the increases, we cannot achieve the mid-European share and give the pensioners what they have worked out and what they deserve. And do you know what caused this? You can't make up for 12 missed years in a year. That's the reason. Neither the state will go bankrupt, nor will we have problems. All this talk we listened to last year during the update. Not only did the budget calmly take over the new pension payments, but there is an opportunity to further increase pensions. But, as you've seen, that's because some 3.9 billion doesn't go into bars, cash register and all kinds of things, and the money goes to the pensioners. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] And if I have to choose as a finance minister between the bars and the bills or between the zero budget deficit fetish and that pensioners can live fairly dignifiedly, I will always choose that pensioners can live fairly dignifiedly. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u120	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, may I ask for the last time, is there any lines to Mrs. Sacheva's statement? There are no lines. You, Mrs. Sacheva? The statements were in the context of the topic of today's point, so I see no basis for the issue. [[Replications from the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova, from the place.]] Mrs. Sacheva's statement wasn't. Am I supposed to take her word away, Mrs. Atanasova? I left her because she assumed she was part of the agenda item. In the same context was Minister Gokov's statement. For a statement, Professor Gechev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My speech is based on systematized information, including this morning only by recognised international financial institutions, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. To what has been said in this House, one of the key macroeconomic indicators, a major one, I would say, when comparing the effectiveness of an economic policy, is the dynamics of economic growth. What are the facts? According to the National Statistical Institute, the facts are that in the first quarter the economic growth in Bulgaria exceeds 4%. This is above the average percentage of the European Union and is close to the percentage of former countries in Eastern Europe. Some of them, of course, have a slightly higher percentage, such as Poland. What are the forecasts, it is very important, and what are the trends of economic growth? I say that growth is important because we honourable Members are starting from the positions, together with Romania, of the last countries in the European Union. There is no way to increase the standard of living of our compatriots, of Bulgarians, no way other than the dynamization of economic growth above the average of Europe, there is no way. And that's why this indicator is key. What is the International Monetary Fund's forecast? As of 20 April 2022, the International Monetary Fund has made a second correction and says growth will be 3.2% this year. Pay attention, it is very important, compared to 2023, dynamics are growing to 4.5% according to the International Monetary Fund. This trend whether it corresponds to other countries' trends, as opposition colleagues say we are shown red cardboard. No red card, green card is shown because the economic growth of France 2022 according to the same International Monetary Fund is 2.4, next year declines to 1.9. Bulgaria goes from 3.2 to 4.5. Spain from 4.1 this year descends to 2.2 next year. In Bulgaria, it goes from 3.2 to 4.5. Portugal this year 5,4, next year 1.7. Bulgaria goes from 3.2 to 4.5. Poland, which I mentioned, is with 4.4 this year, next year the International Monetary Fund forecast based on a structure of their growth and price and investment movement is only 1.8. That is, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission confirm a positive trend of the economic growth of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is in a positive direction next year, while France, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Poland. And the question arises on what basis and who will show whom red card? The second indicator related to economic growth is the foreign trade turnover. Opposition colleagues are attacking data, saying imports are growing faster than exports. And this is absolutely true because these are the data of BNB and the National Statistical Institute. More precisely, the January-exporting April 2022 grew by 33,6 and the imports by 40,5, or there is about 6% differential. This is generally a negative trend, but I have done my work and pulled the data of other countries and peoples from the European Union. And what's the data? The data is that in the European Union's motorcycle, which they keep quiet, colleagues know it from the opposition, but I do this service for them, in Germany imports are growing by 25.2%, these are all data from the European Commission, growing by 25.2 imports, and exports are only growing by 9.2. That is, in the Republic of Bulgaria, the differential between imports and exports is more favourable than the motor of the European Union of Germany. How are things in Italy, which is in southern Europe? In Italy, imports are growing by 42.4% and exports are growing by 14.9%, January "April." So the differential is 25.5%. Bulgaria, with regard to the changes in imports and exports, stands better on this indicator from Germany, Italy, Spain, Portugal. So there is no way to attack this indicator. In addition, it is quite logical for all these countries that exports will grow faster, as the analysis shows that the structure of imports, everyone knows, the main reason is the increase in energy prices. In addition, colleagues said that on the other key indicators of financial stability at the moment we have repeatedly explained that there is no way to impose sanctions on Bulgaria because the budget deficit is 4.1 and not 3%. They then have to go to the nearest unit of their Ministry of Interior and surrender, as their budget deficit is significantly higher. And the debts of European countries are between 90 and 180% of gross domestic product. Bulgaria and Estonia, for example, it has been said a hundred times that we have times four, seven, eight, nine times lower debt compared to gross domestic product than most euro area members. So by this indicator, we have no way of worrying and there is no way the European Union can punish 27 countries 24, to introduce sanctions on them. I mean, they have to decide for themselves. Moreover, as you rightly pointed out, colleagues, in your attack on the government, in the motives, you pointed out there that the public debt is growing, which is unfounded, as it has already been said by the Minister of Finance that the public debt is actually falling. And I'm going to say, once again, yes, if the debt is accepted to grow with an additional loan of 2 billion and something this year, it is because of the fact that March month next year the debt will be paid and we will pay categorically, there are no risks in this. The interest will be higher in the coming months as there is no analytical institute or international institution to predict lower interest rates. Moreover, colleagues from GERB, you withdrew, requested permission from parliament and received 16 billion. lv. 2015 for three years ahead, with one of the arguments being the payment of such debts. In addition, in your motives you use the argument for high inflation and this is justified, this is a very worrying problem, as inflation in Bulgaria is higher than the average for the European Union, but it, unfortunately for other countries, is lower than euro area member states, former countries such as Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. They are members of the euro area, they have control of the European Central Bank, why their debt is more than 20% Finally, one of the attacks, as I said, in the motives is the index of production prices, because, according to colleagues, they are very high. Let's see what these production prices are. April 2022 compared to April 2021, colleagues say the production prices, the index is 40.2%, and this sounds disturbing. Well, let's see how it is in other countries and nations. In Germany this May this year the index was 33.6 in May last year, but the month April "April 2022" - 2021, I recall, in Bulgaria is 40.2. It's in Italy. It's 42.5. In Spain, "Women One." In Romania,.. 47,11. In Belgium, in the heart of Europe, 74.3. So by comparing colleagues, Eurostat, International Monetary Fund, world banks, the parameters of Bulgaria give you no reason to claim that we are in some crisis and destabilization of financial indicators, as the indicators speak for themselves. So you have no reason to ask for a vote of no confidence for fiscal reasons, and I wish you a good day. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u122	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'll give you 20 minutes to prepare for the other speeches. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u123	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. Are there any willing to take the floor? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u124	Honourable Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Chairman, published Eurostat data per month showed that nine member states have a two-digit rate of inflation, among which, unfortunately, is Bulgaria. The rise in price levels is a ubiquitous phenomenon, but the pace at which it develops in individual countries is different. Colleagues, inflation in Bulgaria is rising significantly faster, reaching 12.1% for the previous month, and in May it is 15.6% for the European Union average slightly over 8%. And while, colleagues, the measurement of inflation takes place at different time points and apply different methods, usually the deviations between them are not so drastic. Usually the deviations are not so drastic, but under the current conditions of accelerated price increases, more significant differences can also be observed. It has been repeatedly recommended by experts, including us, to include the assessment not only of the fiscal but also of the macroeconomic effects of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. The plan is strategically important not only for overcoming the consequences of the pandemic, but also for implementing structural reforms in the Bulgarian economy. They can also be done, colleagues, and through budgetary policy. However, at this stage, there is still no detailed analysis, although funds are already envisaged before the end of the year, possibly. And while the vote, colleagues, is in terms of the financial and economic policy pursued in the last six months of this government, this is a third attempt by the current finance minister to make policies through a budget. And we are currently in a budget procedure, and anti-crisis measures are a key part of them, at least that's how it was advertised by the government. But let's hear the facts regarding these anti-crisis measures. The anti-crisis measures were presented as aimed at supporting the most vulnerable members of society in conditions of ever increasing prices. In macroeconomic terms, higher final prices would limit consumption and thus cool subsequent increases. However, the problem is that in more vulnerable groups, further reduction of consumption is undesirable. Therefore, if the fiscal policy instrument is allowed at all to be aimed at controlling inflation, it is generally assumed that the just quoted approach by the government would be optimistic. This is because there is always a certain risk that the measures will have an opposite effect, and they have proved so several times. Some of the measures take the form of tax relief and others take the form of state transfers. Both types of costs are not productive. That is, colleagues, it does not bring about a rise in gross domestic product, but only to its redistribution. The increase in government spending further stimulates consumption, which, in turn, fueled further inflation, what we talked about as early as February, that the budget made up of the government was pro-inflation results. Colleagues, as a rule, the financial justification must contain information on the source of funding of these costs, some of which, you know, permanent It does not exist in the proposed budget and its update on how these expenditures will be financed, which are longer and are laid down for the following years. This, colleagues, is disturbing and I think that from today's debate and in the course of the debate it will become clear that there are no such sources, there is no such justification and all this is done to blur the eyes of the Bulgarian citizens, but it is not in line with an optimally guided policy of fiscal stability in terms of the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u126	Mr. Ivanov, just a few details. Obviously you didn't see inflation on Eurostat. According to the harmonised index inflation is 13.4% and not 15.6%. The average for Europe is about 9% and there are 12 countries with double-digit inflation, so we are about in the middle. Given that we are the poorest, and most of our basket is in food and energy resources, where shocks and external inflation are, it is normal for us to outrun inflation in the European Union. As regards the sustainability of the proposed social costs, we have already discussed this. In Bulgaria, with the proposed increases, pensions payments reached 10.4% of gross domestic product, average European values were 12.7%. So despite the increases in us, what we set aside for pensions is significantly less than what separates Europe as a whole. This in no form threatens financial stability and we have repeatedly shown estimates of how the collection is increasing and how tax revenues are increasing, including in the update we have additional receipts, despite the reduced tax rates, so there is no problem with the parameters of the update. Moreover, you know that there is no problem with the parameters of the update, and that is precisely why Mrs. Sacheva just said that the same amount should be placed as a 15% increase in pensions, that is, you say: let us spend the same money in another way. If this really threatens the financial stability of the country, say what you have been doing for many years, and say: we will not increase social costs despite the crisis. But say it right so people understand what the economic policy that you want to conduct is. Don't pretend, say it! They'll hear you and understand you, as they've already felt on their backs for the past 12 years. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u127	Are there any lines for Mr. Ivanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u128	Dear Mr. Ivanov, if you can affect the other anti-crisis measures, the impact of inflation on the real purchasing power of social payments, which is speculated here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u129	Is there another line? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov, you have the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u130	Dear Mr. President, honourable colleagues and replicating colleagues, this will give me the opportunity to reply a little to Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the real assessment of inflation is given by Bulgarian citizens and they experience it on their backs every day when they visit the store, use some service or at least fill their cars at the gas stations. You say that we are below the threshold of the paid share of gross domestic product for pensions, but it is also nice to explain to workers and pensioners what the tax burden is in those countries of the European Union that you are quoting. Forty percent is the golden rule, and the Public Finance Act fixed 40% to be redistributed through the budgetary procedure, through budget policies from gross domestic product. Your governments, including that of the office, have broken this golden rule and we have already reached 43.1% redistribution through budget policies of gross domestic product. We, as a ruling party, have always in the last 12 years of fiscal stability and a conservative policy in terms of public finances, sought to redistribute less than the public good. You're doing the opposite. I mentioned the tax burden. In inflation we feel real impoverishment and that we are, there are other countries with two-digit inflation growth, we as a position do not calm us, I think that Bulgarian citizens do not feel at ease as well. I said it, I think the Bulgarian citizens feel the inflation pressure every day in the store, in every field of services, goods and consumption it is felt. Naturally, it is mostly felt by low-income citizens or those of social payments. And this proposal that we're going to make in terms of social payments, you've twisted it, you're not correct. Mrs. Sacheva said that our proposal will be sustainable because you want to completely change the model, which, however, also involves the coming years. We will make it anti-crisis, to actually meet the needs of citizens now, not to buy with your methods. For us you prepare with an election budget, we told you in the debate then. To a colleague replicating my group, Mr. Valchev, the other measures will not be enough time to list them. I also did it in the debate on the budget.. 150 million. lv. are disposed of by the government, are given directly to oil traders and gas stations, and fuel producers in Bulgaria. It is one, with some 0.25 centimeters to blindfold Bulgarian citizens, each liter of fuel is one lev above the real value, one lev above what real Bulgarian citizens have to pay. At the current levels of excise duty, which have not been increased, at the current levels of VAT, which have not been increased in recent years, at the same prices of oil exchanges in Bulgaria, the petrol market is one lev more. And this is from them collected all Bulgarian citizens, including pensioners, who will not have cars during their consumption will be collected taxes and will be given 150 million. lv. How even this methodology of redistribution from the budget will function did not become clear because it says: recording some invoices. So, imagine if whoever went to load the car, they'd write him an invoice?! I don't know how this is gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You're right at any moment, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please. It's good to know what's going on with this lev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u132	Mr. Ivanov, you obviously didn't look at the budget in detail. The re-allocation from the state budget is 39.3%.. less than the 40 percent you are talking about. The additional redistribution comes from European programmes and European funds. What you are saying, let us not take European money so that we do not increase the share of state intervention in the economy. Let's not take European money. Say it here from this tribune, let us not take European money, because this will exceed the 40 percent of redistribution. You're talking about how citizens feel inflation in the store. They feel it, all citizens feel it, and what we offer as anti-crisis measures is to leave more money in citizens' budgets when they pay less taxes, for example working families and the most vulnerable groups, such as pensioners, to get more money so that they can buy goods with increased prices. What you are preaching as a philosophy is, let us not give people any more money despite increased prices to reduce inflation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u133	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u134	Well, we're not doing it. We will give enough money to people to meet the increased costs. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Specially for pensions. Let me translate to all the pensioners what the word "sustainable" means that you used. We want to raise pensions permanently and forever. You want to raise them this year and next year they stay lower. That means the word sustainable. Every year the pensioners will depend on the favor of your party, unless God forbid she returns to power. [[Applause from.. We continue the Change.............................................. Replies from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u135	Mr. Ananiev, why don't you take the floor to explain what this is about?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u136	All he talks about is lies.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u137	Is there anyone else who would like to take a stand? This tactical waiting can lead to this at some point to ring the bell. [[Laughter]] So I'm asking you for activity! The Minister of Education? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u138	To be honest, I expected today to be very violent, very dynamic, as a vote for mistrust is being tabled to the Bulgarian government. What does it turn out, fellow Members, that you have nothing to say to this vote or when you are answered, nothing to add? [[(Voices from "We continue the Change": "Bravo!" Bravo! (Applause) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Applause) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) (Laughter) Replies from GERB: We can't take the floor from you.]] Since many other untruths have been spoken along with the arguments that have been written and formally presented, to use the softer word, one of which is that the government is not working intensively and has no results, let me just say for these six months what was done in the sector for which I am responsible. I will not only talk about that from April 1, 2022 the teacher's salary on average became BGN 1958. [[(Voices from "We continue the Change": "Bravo!" Bravo! (Applause) (Applause) (We are continuing the Change) (BSP for Bulgaria) (Democratic Bulgaria, ministers.)]] I will not talk about the first time since April 1st that kindergartens are visited, with parents being released from paying fees. [[(Applause and cheering by.. We continue the Change............................................................................................................................................................................... Bravo! (Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria, Democratic Bulgaria, ministers.)]] I'm not talking about increasing national education programmes by 90 million. lv. And now it's 260 million. lv. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And I would say that this increase will go to 70,000 children who will for the first time have the opportunity to do free sports and arts in schools outside the classroom and another 40 thousand children will be able to go free to the sea if there is no problem with the pandemic again. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", "Democratic Bulgaria", ministers.]] I'm going to talk about the fact that we have adopted 20 more national scientific programmes, some of them completely new. For example, the Program "Development and validation of Bulgarianism abroad." Where are the patriots and why didn't they find her last year or the year before? This is the program for Bulgarianism that we find! From pole to pole for Antarctica, the Program for Public Activity, with which Bulgarian scientists will receive support so that they can publish abroad and stop complaining that they cannot do so because they have no funds. [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] Together with you, but on our initiative, we have adopted a law on depolitization of the school system. Why? Because she's been outrageously politicized by you over the last few years. Moreover, as a result of this activity, we have an uploaded regulation for a new way to choose school directors, so that we stop choosing them again on a party line, so that everyone can see how the exam is going, so that everyone can see their strategy. [[Relations of the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] Everything I say is true and very easy to check, so the lines are meaningless. We introduced for the first time in February an electronic system that covers the entire information system of school education for teachers, students, directors, exchange of correspondence. Nobody understood because there were no scandals. Safe attendance training provided in the fifth coat of wool. I thank Minister Serbenova, she and I agreed and from 1 to 4th grade nor for a day stopped attendance training during this period. [[(Applause and applause) (Applause) (Applause) (Applause) (Applause) (Applause) (Applause) (Applause) (Applause) (Applause) Bravo! (Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria, Democratic Bulgaria, ministers.)]] In the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, money for education was made available to the public. lv. And again: it's not just about money, it's about what we give them for. STEM training, new schools and kindergartens, repairs all of this is programmed and will soon start applying for this funding. We'll open the invitations in July next month. I hope we'll be the first, but if we're not, better still, there are others ready. Program "Education". If there is a meeting of the Council of Ministers tomorrow, it will be adopted with 3 sections. Pre-school and school education - 472 million BGN, inclusive education - 561 million BGN, vocational education BGN 457 million, higher education lv. Do we want to accept them? We must want, only in order for it to happen, the amendments to the European Funds Act must be adopted. Well, if there is no parliament, we won't accept these changes, there may not be any funds by the end of the year. Upcoming tasks. Full overview of the general education training programmes. And here today, a colleague from the educational system told me: "Teachers do not believe that this will happen. " - Do you know why they do not believe? Because everyone knows it's a huge problem, but it's not easy to do. Well, we're going to do it, and if we have a chance, we'll finish it. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", "Democracy for Bulgaria", ministers.]] On September 15th, the electronic cloud has to start working with educational resources. Everything's set up, we need to get the system in place. This is the cloud that will begin the disappearance of private lessons, because students will have a place to learn without paying the parents. Quality standard in education. Did you know that under the 2016 law that you adopted, there must be a quality standard? And up until this year "6 years later, we do not have a quality standard in school education. Why? Because it's not easy! We'll do it! I have more on that list, but I think it's enough to understand that all the talk that this government doesn't work intensively is just to throw dust into people's eyes. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", "Democracy for Bulgaria", ministers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u139	Thank you to Minister Denkov. Mr. Valchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the Council of Ministers! Of course we have something to say, but we don't have this opportunity as ministers to talk unlimitedly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u141	You had your chance last year.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u142	Last year or the year before, we probably had that opportunity. The vote is not about education. I most cohesively congratulate Minister Denkov for some of the things he listed that were actually done, but, unfortunately, he was tempted to respond non-executively. He wasn't honest enough to say that almost all the things he said were started earlier. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Both the information system and the educational cloud was developed as a project. He could have said that the project was from 2019 and the programmes. In our time, so many programs have been made. There's a very good meter. These are the costs of education as a percentage of gross domestic product and the costs of education as a percentage of budget expenditure. They show the attitude of a government, of a government to education. By 2021, education expenditures were increased to 4.5% of gross domestic product. This year, after the update, is rounded to 4.2% of gross domestic product. This clearly shows how education is treated. You remember how much we had two updates in the last year proposed by Asen Vassilev and one budget. Only in the budget there was an increase in expenditure for education, but this growth is lower than the growth of gross domestic product and lower than the growth of budget expenditure. At all, development costs have been ignored in this budget. Yes, our pension costs may be lower, because of the lower average pension survival rate, which is much lower than, unfortunately, in other European countries, but you have not been correct, Mr. Vassilev, to say that our budgetary policy is most dependent on pension costs in terms of the budget transfer and this crushes all other costs and what you do is substitute for development costs and infrastructure, and education, and culture and mass sport. You crush everything to implement social policies. But you don't really realize social policy because you didn't understand one main thing that the most antisocial policy and inflation, that inflation tax, half of which is your tax inflation, is the most antisocial policy that water, and all social increases do not compensate. Look and see that all social payments are updated at a lower rate than inflation. There's a term for purchasing power. In your case, the purchasing power in the last year has decreased. In the previous years it was increasing and when we increased wages by 100%, Minister Denkov, it was 90% real increase in 4 years. Because cumulative inflation over 4 years was nearly 9%. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB-SDS.)]] Now that you've increased by 12%, and only to teachers, you have no other budget policy. Only the teachers have increased by 12 percent.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u143	And the doctors.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u144	Inflation is 15%. Inflation will be for a year and a half almost 30%, because the producer's prices are already 40%. Because you didn't understand that your most important social policy is to cross the penetration of raw materials inflation and energy carriers into final prices. If you had done this, your most important anti-inflation and social measure was to support the business. It may sound paradoxical, but if you had supported the business, you would have made the best social policy. But you didn't because you like inflation. You like inflation, you're tempted to generate revenue from it. [[Reply from the ministers.]] Yes, it is because inflation is a ubiquitous tax, Mr. Petkov it takes from everyone, full budget, return one part of the social payments, update, report here policies, speculate with social categories, demagogize, act socially oriented, offer us updates of three months and people with reduced purchasing power! And you speak of poverty most unceremoniously! Poverty is the reduction due to the inflation that you provoke and which is your official policy. Thank you. [[(Shouting:) Bravo! Bravo! " and loud applause by GERB-SDS.")]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u145	Any lines to Mr. Valchev? Line! I don't see any lines. [[Heckling]] You can take the floor again. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u146	I'll say two sentences about the things I understand. I don't think it's a good idea to race who started what. [[(Shouts from GERB-SDS: ……]] Because if we go back to who started what, we have to go back to 2014 when no one believed that there could be an Operational Programme - Science and Education - which financed these activities. Then we can see who contributed what. [[Replications of the National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] What I can say is that when I entered the Ministry, there was a concept of this electronic cloud. This concept wasn't good enough, we revised it, we prepared a public procurement, we made our public procurement, so let's not compete who started what, because we have to go back a lot. We've done some things together. I am talking about 2014 - 2015. For the economic price of inflation, I'm sure the Deputy Prime Minister will say. What I can say is, yes, you didn't have inflation, you didn't have war. [[Alexander Nenkov: "Stop this war. "]] Enough of this war?! That's the most cynical statement I've ever heard. [[Applause from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria" and the ministers.]] That's the most cynical thing I've ever heard! You should have at least read books so you know what war means. [[Heckling]] No, you haven't read. [[Applause from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria" and the ministers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u147	Procedure? Attitude? [[Relations of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev.]] No, no! Let's work this out. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Do you have a statement? What attitude? [[Replications. National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov is approaching the stands.]] Mr. Kostadinov, I didn't give you the floor. Get down here! [[Definitions between the chairman of the meeting Atanas Atanasov and the MP Kostadin Kostadinov.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will only say two things as regards what has been said by the Minister of Education and which has no direct relation to the vote, because it has come to the way in which this ministry is working. Two things I'm only going to say quite indicative of the way it works at the Ministry of Education. Last week there was a huge, spectacular failure in the National Outdoor Training for 10th grade. What happened then? To be very brief, I will not take up almost any time. The exam starts at 9:00 p.m. in 10th grade mathematics, that is, at 9:44 p.m., it turns out that there are wrong formulas, and new ones must be sent, as there is a mistake in the formula. Ten o'clock. One hour after the exam started, regional inspectors from the regional education management paid an email to all school directors that they would receive new formulas that were sent within the next ten minutes, that is, an hour and ten minutes after the exam began. 10:31 p.m. One minute after the exam should be over, as it lasts 90 minutes, an email comes from the Ministry of Education, which says that for the beginning of the exam the second assignment will be considered, not the first one, only at this point a large part of the children have already handed over their tasks since they have come out. The question is who will take responsibility for the failed exam if anyone has the opportunity to answer at this time? Secondly, because it was pointed out for Bulgarianism abroad as a huge contribution of this government, I asked this minister a specific question, which I still do not have an answer to. I actually asked that question before I don't know how much time, exactly last week or the past, and again I asked the minister personally about the notorious $1 million, which was increased from 300,000 to 1 million. This is the subsidy to the Tarakli University of Tarakli. The only Bulgarian university outside Bulgaria that has not yet been granted and the university agonizes. So it's nice when they say things like that, but it's time to say things as they are. The truth is, there is a huge problem in the work of this particular ministry. That's why I'm taking attitude, and not to mention the fact that the government isn't doing its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u149	Mr. Minister, you want to take the floor again? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Wait a minute. Under the Rules of Procedure, the ministers can at any time request the floor, so we have no right to refuse it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u150	If I hadn't brought up a new topic, I wouldn't have taken the floor, but there's a new topic coming up here. For this one month, in the last one month in our Ministry, 108 national external assessments and state maturity exams have been conducted and there is no grand scandal. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] Yes, it's our job, but because of the law that you passed, we had to organize three times more exams this year than they've been organized so let us have some small problems. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u151	Thank you. Take procedure, not attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u152	Dear Minister Denkov, you said to go further back and indeed, if we go further back, I have always considered your contribution and your work. But it was good for you to be a little more objective, but obviously here the tribune in this case draws you towards something else in the most incorrect way blame the law, justify the law and so on. But I tell you once again that there is one subjective measure, and this is the government's attitude to the education system, the social costs have been suppressed, you have failed to adequately protect the budget for education and science, and this is the big problem of this budget, that it is damaging future chances of development. You also withdrew the money for infrastructure or minimized it on the basis of real implementation and all this will lead to lower growth of gross domestic product in the future. You build debt, you increase deficit funding. Mr. Vassilev, you have been praised by the German Finance Minister, but I do not know if you have understood that he has actually praised the budget policy for the past 25 years. [[noise and lines from.. Continue Change............................]] , which you have called the "fetish" or "self-target." This budgetary policy was painfully lived in 1996 and there was a consensus that we should pursue a prudent budgetary policy. All governments and finance ministers who were then may have had all kinds of problems, but they had the responsibility to conduct a prudent budgetary policy as a framework for making reforms, to develop business.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u153	The pensions were 160 leva. For 12 years!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u154	The missionaries had a real growth in pensions, then they had a real growth. Mr. Ananiev, there is a term for purchasing power...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u155	Mr. Valchev, do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u156	... Look and calculate growth minus inflation. It's very simple growth minus inflation, and this is the first time we've been minus in 25 years. That's it! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u157	Here you go. You're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u158	Mr. Valchev, financial and budgetary policy, which since 1998 the waters have made Bulgaria the poorest country in the European Union and with the biggest inequalities between the poor and the rich. [[Applause from.. We continue the Change.............................................. Noise and lines by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u159	Mr. Bikov, can you not yell at me in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u160	There is a reason why the current budget policy, which is significantly more balanced and is trying to bring up the handicaps of recent years, is applauded by Europe, but not by you. You like inequalities because you take care of a small group of companies that serve you and fill your lockers with bars and bills. [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] instead of taking care of all Bulgarian citizens. As for investments in education, they are sufficiently high and just as much as the Ministry has requested. You can ask Minister Denkov if we turned down a lev for education. From now on, what you said that inflation had eaten the increase in pensions, let me remind you of what I said to Mrs. Sacheva. In 12 years, you raised your pension by BGN 164. ...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u161	What kind of inflation?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u162	... In 12 months, we've raised it at BGN 167. With any inflation, this is a significantly greater increase. And you know what? The missionaries see it! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u163	Adrenaline has risen in the hall, and this is useful for the debate. Are there any speeches from the House? Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is such a people that we expressed the attitude towards this government before GERB asked them for a vote of mistrust. We withdrew our trust before GERB tabled a vote of mistrust. I'm saying this, if you could stop practicing in being a coalition with them, and I say there are causal links, we were before that. Secondly, our no-confidence vote, of the "There is such a people" to this cabinet, is on two points the bad financial policy and the violation of the coalition agreement on the topic "Northern Macedonia." [[Reply from the ministers.]] Maybe you won't take it from there! Mr. Karimansky explained about the financial policy, so I'm not a financier and I won't talk. With regard to northern Macedonia, the coalition agreement has been broken, so our withdrawal of trust in this government is practically because of two people........................................................................................................................................................................... Kiril Petkov worked single-handedly all the time with his flock of councilmen against Bulgaria's national interest in Northern Macedonia. I'll give you two examples I've witnessed. One is how he told me: we have to come up with something about the language with Northern Macedonia, because the Macedonians want it. The other is how at a meeting with Ursula von der Lyon, where I and the other political leaders attended, he talked about a Bulgarian minority. I had to interrupt it and say that Bulgaria does not accept that it is a Bulgarian minority, and this is recorded in the Council of Ministers because it was an official meeting. So, colleagues, we've withdrawn our trust from this government on these very two subjects, and any other nonsense, whatever they're saying, is just bullshit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u165	Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It's already quarter past three, and what arguments did I hear? You want to overthrow this government because we have raised pensions and we propose to raise pensions to 467 BGN and this is inflationary?! Because doctors' salaries shouldn't have been BGN 2,000. And that was pro-inflation! Because nurses shouldn't get £500. And it's pro-inflation. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] Because the 13 billion had come, but they were late, although we were currently congratulated on the best recovery and development plan, which is the greenest, by the way. Because in the last few months we should apologize to you that the world's markets have climbed 55% the price of oil and you know it very well. We are very sorry that a person like Krasimir Valchev and I say this about a person who should normally respect economic terms, very clearly know that this inflation has been introduced. And when rhetoric is done, which is almost a function of our government, it's just an ugly lie! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] At the same time, Mr. Ananiev, I regret the economic collapse that happened in the first three months with growth of the economy of only 4%, I am very sorry about this! At the same time, let's speak the truth. We've heard this about Macedonia a thousand and eight hundred times, and I'm not even gonna talk about it. We have said a hundred times that this will be decided in parliament, but these people are practicing on the same gum because they know very well that they asked 40% of the estimate of the billions of roads to be in a dark room in MRRB. Well, it didn't work out. I'm sorry. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And that people in your group said why you were taking down the government clearly, and then Mr. Yordanov was making excuses here, and I didn't even understand what he said. The fact is, the money didn't go where you agreed to go. Let us speak the truth and in fact the real reason for this vote of mistrust are four people who are not here. The first, Mr. Borisov, is afraid that justice will come to him. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] The second, Mr. Peevski, is afraid that his companies will not receive these construction billions, for which he may have a deal with someone else in this room. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And for the people who have been silent so far, they have tried to say something about the euro, but we do not understand it. Mrs. Mitrofanova isn't so scary, and sometimes you don't have to listen to her about everything she tells you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Tomorrow, however, it is up to you, people who are really up to you. The history of Bulgaria is currently being written. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Do not allow Bulgarian politics and where this country is going to depend on four texts of four people who are not in this room. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u167	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Yordanov, you? [[Reply from the National Representative Toshko Yordanov.]] I'll give you the floor of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u168	Brief procedure, Mr. Chairman. Remind the Prime Minister to listen nicely. I said what he said about what he said was a lie. I said it politely so you wouldn't punish me. Like I'm saying, what he said right now is also a lie because there are rules and there are... There you are, you have your minister, let's go out and say, but there the things that have been accepted are not as they are, so these are lies. The only reason we withdrew our trust is because of Macedonia and financial policy. The rest is lies. And the guy you're quoting lied. You lied! I didn't say we'd ruin the government for this if you didn't agree on the budget. I didn't say that! I said this budget... And pointing at me with a ring and not pointing at me is the truth! [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u169	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Prime Minister, you have the floor. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I can't hear you, guys! If you want to take an attitude, please come to the stands. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u170	Sorry, I didn't tell you who the fourth text came from on tomorrow. From Mr. Slavi Trifonov! And if I have to trust either one of you today, I certainly trust the man on my left, because you have told so many lies today, that every word of yours no longer has value. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u171	Thank you, Prime Minister. For procedure? Wait, wait, wait! One at a time! Mr. Bikov, to what? [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] I will give you the opportunity for a procedure because it was a response to a certain extent to Mr. Yordanov. I'll give you the floor of procedure because that was an answer to what Mr. Yordanov came in with. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] I'll give you the floor for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u172	No, about attitude!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u173	When the Minister speaks, do we have the right to be treated?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u174	Mr. Bikov, if we start... To all colleagues now, let's get one thing straight. If every time a member of the Council of Ministers becomes a member of the Council of Ministers, we give the opportunity to take an attitude for two minutes... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Let me finish. ...to each parliamentary group, this will extend the meeting to a few days. As I recall, at the Presidential Council last week, we commented that the opposition insists that the no-confidence vote be dealt with and ended as quickly as possible. In the end, each of the ministers, including the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers, may, in the end, have the right to take part in the topic of 'Wot of mistrust', because, regardless of the reasons given, this is an overall assessment of the work of the entire government, i.e.... only when it is spoken on a topic which is really very, very far from the topic of 'Wot of mistrust', then it can be considered, to compromise and to go by the order of art. 59. [[Reply from GERB-SDS: "Not true! "]] Mr. Bikov, now for these two or three sentences by the Prime Minister to give an opportunity to treat all the groups, I do not think it is reasonable and justified. I will give you the floor of procedure, if you wish, take advantage of what has been said.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, then in the manner of conduct, if it is a procedure. First of all, it's not fair to me. We've been listening to the ministers here for several hours, the Prime Minister. We don't mind. That's entirely to their detriment. That's why we don't take the floor much because we have enough protection to have all the arguments to vote no confidence. Secondly, regarding what the Prime Minister said. Prime Minister, you should know that justice has come. The Bulgarian court announced the arrest, your arrest, ordered by you and executed by this communist there [[Replication by Minister Boyko Rashkov, applause by GERB-SDS]] , for illegal and illiterate. Not just illegal and illiterate. And illiterate third time! Third, you're talking here that we're writing history. You don't write a story, be absolutely sure. Bulgaria has, I think, over 90 governments. Your government can remain only as a paradox and an anecdote in Bulgarian history. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]] There will be no one to record you there, be assured. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] No, not corrupt, let it go. I'm interested in history, unlike you, and I know who he writes about in history. It usually says something about someone who's done something, and you, besides talking nonsense, will do nothing else...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u176	Mr. Bikov! Mr. Bikov, please stop...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u177	...and you will remain in the history of the Bulgarian press eventually. On the Internet, if someone knocks, they'll find you there, but in history, don't be so pretentious. And don't insult us, this building here, because she's already been pretty offended in the last few months. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u178	I will give the Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev an opportunity and then Mr. Karadjov. Mr. Vassilev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u179	Mr. Bikov, you said you were into history, I'm not into history...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u180	I can see you!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u181	...but I do remember a book of yours.. The dictatorship of a dictator.... for Mr. Borisov. [[(Applause and cheering by.. We continue the ……]] I only have one question for you, Mr. Bikov, how did you become the cartoon of this dictator? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u182	Wait a minute, guys! And to Mr. Bikov, and to Mr. Vassilev, I appeal to stop. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Yes, I'll give Mr. Bikov the floor for a personal explanation. I appeal to stop personal assaults and insults! Here you are, Mr. Bikov, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Vassilev! First of all, it's not a book. It's an article. I write articles to this day every week and publish them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u184	Anybody read them?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u185	By the way, if you start reading them, you might start to understand why what's happening to you right now is happening to you. As far as I'm concerned, what have I become? That's none of your business. [[(Speaks and cheers by.. We continue The Change......................................................................................................]] But do you know when I started to sympathize with Mr. Borisov? [[Laughter]] During the reign of your coalition partners from BSP, when Mr. Oresharski was Prime Minister, then. Then! [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]] That's when I realized that the big change usually comes to an end, usually it's a replacement. Those who talk a lot about what will change, how everything will become a paradise, what you did three or four months ago, now you do it for another seven months, but with each passing day you seem more unhappy in your talking. That's when I got up. By the way, if I was once again a critic of Mr. Borisov, within your management I would probably like him again. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Just like it happened to a lot of people. Just because we're complaining about you, it's like some electrician complaining about the price of electricity. You've been doing us such good work for a year now that we've managed to get our party back together and structure our organization, and we're ready to rule again. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]] It doesn't have to happen, but outside of everything else I'll tell you one more thing: You have a weak sense of humor. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Don't use it because it doesn't work for you. Thank you. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u186	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Are they all for procedure? Mrs. Petrova, come in, then Mr. Svilensky asked for the floor and Mr. Petkov. Mr. Karadjov, I'm sorry, but you'll have to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u187	For procedure, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members! I am extremely happy to take this procedure, especially after the series of artistic procedures that the opposition has taken, but one thing has become clear, gentlemen, isn't it? Clearly, this is not a debate about economics. This debate is over. He ended up between the experts, ended up in society, ended up in the media, in the conquered media that you bequeathed to us. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] This is a procedure for what kind of debate we're having here today. This debate, the economic debate, is over, and he has a winner. The winner of this debate is what the facts are! The coworkers already talked about them. In space there are a few clackers who are helplessly trying to support the thesis in this direction of what out of fear! This, Mr. Chairman, is a debate on fear, colleagues. Remember, this is how we started back in the day with an initiative that was called, "No to fear! " - It's no accident that I remind you of it. Patron was President Zhelev, face was artist Donnie, the '90s. Are we still here, Mr. Chairman? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] People in 1990 refused to be afraid. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] The year was 1996, then our friends ran abroad, fled our beloved homeland. This is a debate on this, Mr. Chairman. We all clearly need to remind ourselves who we are, who we are, where we come from and what the puppet show is. [[GERB-SDS lines]] June 21, 2022, the dolls aren't out, the dolls are in. That's what the debate is about, Mr. Chairman. Images like holograms appear from rooms without windows, the speech is 90 years old, and the taste in the mouth is of crime. That's what the debate is about, Mr. Chairman. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] This is not a debate about mistrust, so I'm taking a procedure, this is a debate about complete conviction. At first you thought Mr. Prime Minister was just talking idealistic election stuff, but no. Today you are completely convinced that Bulgaria is breaking up with the dependencies of the big and small. This means that the well-oiled corruption machine will stop working. What will happen to you gentlemen? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u188	Colleagues, I'm describing it as a statement and I'm going to give you an opportunity for a line. Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u189	You are convinced that the media will be released because you know that we are working for legislation, no matter what, will ensure that the Director of National Television will no longer be a leader of manipulation, the public media will carry out its mission. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] How's the intrigue with Mr. Koshlukov's choice going? Are we gonna blow up the public again? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] You are also convinced that the nature of Bulgaria will no longer be your father's... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u190	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u191	...you are convinced that legislation is being prepared to ensure the restoration of the disfigured face of the Black Sea, which you have bequeathed to us. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] You worked there with great experience, didn't you? You were wondering where to shut up the people who dedicated their lives to enlightening corruption on the front line of our constitutional shores. You found out this was gonna happen, but what about the laundry hotels right next to the waves?! You have found out that the Law on Cultural Heritage and a new code of inheritance is being worked on. The debate is also about this because what you neglected on purpose does not meet any international standards, no conventions, and it actually serves the destruction of our history, our image, your memory. You were scared about the strawberry house. How strangely connected things are... So this isn't even a debate, Mr. Chairman, it's a sign in history. He'll mark us all forever. We're not afraid. We are continuing the Change. What about you guys? I have deep faith in you, and I am waiting for you to be free. That's what today's debate is about. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Colleagues, I'm really asking for silence in this room! Let us show respect for those who speak. As far as this procedure was actually speaking... [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski stands on the stand.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Svilensky! ...qualify it as one. I must ask if there is a line to Mrs. Petrova's statement? Mr. Dilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u193	No, no! I want a personal explanation to Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u194	Mr. Svilensky, I'm sorry, we have to finish this procedure. I'll give you a chance too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u195	Let's finish the previous one, he insulted the entire parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u196	Mr. Svilensky, I'll give you my word in a moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u197	Otherwise, it doesn't make sense after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u198	Mr. Svilensky, how can I expect this to happen?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u199	Let me make my procedure a personal explanation for 30 seconds, even 20, and I'm sitting down.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u200	For a personal explanation? Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's been a bit of a mix-up with the procedures. Mr. Bikov, I'm taking a personal explanation as chairman of the parliamentary group. Because you can hardly explain your transformation and do not try. I've been trying to talk to you friendly. I understand you found a good place, so... But do not try to explain it with BSP and with the management of Oresharski, which was supported by BSP, because the same year 2014, Mr. Borisov proposed to BSP a large coalition there in that hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u202	I know, I remember.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u203	You remember. So, you are disappointed with the management of BSP and you come to Borisov. He offers a large coalition and you are already impressed with Borisov. Borisov then proposes that the President of the National Assembly become Mrs. Nino, you are still impressed and continue. So, Mr. Bikov, transformation is hard to explain. BSP is not your fault. BSP was looking for control, only BSP with you couldn't rule. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u204	I can see that the debate, if nothing else, is alive. Mr. Dilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! I'll try to replicate a procedure, which is fun. I think that three things are not spoken of, for example in the house of Slavi Trifonov there is no talk about a hairdryer, probably in the house of the Prime Minister there is no talk about a Constitution, in general it is not nice to talk about the management of BSP in Bulgaria. Several times we have heard here, I catch a line that in the last 11 years GERB have made the Bulgarians the poorest people. No, BCP and BSP made the poorest people Bulgarians! Let me get this straight! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] When people cried out: "Democracy" in the National Assembly square in 1990, Radoy Ralin walked and shouted: "Ask for the pension funds." Let it be, it democracy will come......... the confiscated pension funds entered the budget of the People's Republic. We haven't been able to fix it since. [[Heckling]] Argu with Radoy Ralyn. Don't argue with me. Ms. Angelova, in your previous speech [[speaking indistinctly]] Maybe it was a procedure again, because there can't be two speeches, right, as I recall?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u206	Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u207	Petrova, I'm sorry. I'm confused. I'm very confused. I'm sorry. I'll buy you a shirt. You stressed that you were young and that you look great. And that's why I'm wondering where this Komsomol flame came from? Come on, I've been to Komsomol and let's say I have memories. Where did you get them? For this whole debate, which was about what the debate was about, that it wasn't about economic issues and that you set up a whole name-caller of topics, you're actually absolutely right, and I want to admire you. The debate on the economic policy of this government, for which we want a vote of mistrust, is held every day in the supermarkets of Bulgaria and the gas stations. There is nothing more we can say to the Bulgarians here. Nothing more! But we expect the Council of Ministers to tell us why gas is one lev more expensive, given that this account does not come out anywhere, and where does this lev go, we expect them to tell us at what price this secret gas is, where it is unloaded and which is four times cheaper than Russian gas? These are the things we expect them to tell us. And how will they explain to the Bulgarians why everything is so dear to them... I hope they don't have a chance to explain it in 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u208	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Are you here for the line, Mr. Petkov? Wait a minute. Are there any other lines? Mr. Gutsanov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u209	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Ministers, Dear Members! That's weird. Do you think that people have such a short memory and have you forgotten last year how the squares were filled with protesters against the arrogant, incompetent and rapacious government of the Political Party GERB? Do you think this is forgotten by the people? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No social policy?! Isn't it social policy to raise pensions in just one year with as many percentages as you have in 12 years? Isn't it a social policy of two million and one hundred thousand Bulgarian pensioners in two weeks to receive 20% more pensions? Isn't it a social policy for young families with two children to receive more than 100 leva. A month? Isn't it social policy and is it a policy to have free kindergartens and nurseries? We didn't help the business. How, then, is nearly two billion more exports than last year at this time for the first quarter? 7.3 billion now, and it was 5.3 billion. Euros. If this is not a better economic policy and it is not economic support, I do not know what is. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear colleagues of the opposition, with you and without you the government will succeed. And be assured that if necessary, we will re-elect the President of the National Assembly again so that things can move in the right direction, despite you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u210	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Third line? Mr. Stoinev, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Petrova, I think we need to explain something very important, because there is a myth, a lie from the time of the transition that continues to repeat that, you see, someone stole some pension funds. This is a lie because there has never, ever been a accumulation of pension funds, because our system, Mr. Dilov, is on a cost-covering principle. These are not capital funds so that they can be stolen, and you can never accumulate funds. Remember this once and for all! Stop speculating with him! Never have such money been stolen for a simple reason because there has never been such money and they have never accumulated, and who is now working, he pays the pensions. That is the principle of solidarity. [[Heckling]] That's right, and that's why it's nice to stay on this model that's been invented since Bismarck. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u212	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. For the doppelganger, Mrs. Petrova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u213	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! My hole is on you, Mr. Dilov. Do not confuse the Komsomol flame with the absolute intolerance of mine and of the people outside, and of all those who are just fed up with all this theater that is being played and which you so skillfully and experiencedly rule. Don't confuse them! I know that you yourself are a little confused sitting under the shadow of a leader who, I would say, does not suit you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Now, Mr. Karadjov. Mr. Petkov, the Minister had asked for the floor a long time ago. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u215	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I wasn't going to take the floor until at one point I heard lies being told again to tell lies from the Prime Minister. [[(Sighs:..aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa]] And since I've only been listening to lies on my behalf for two weeks, I also have a file of documents. Mr. Petkov, Mr. Asen Vassilev, both of you have told too many lies on my behalf, and I have brought myself a document to answer you very clearly. On the issue of outrageous public procurement at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Prime Minister Kiril Petkov's touching account of how he talked to Slavi Trifonov about the orders, for 40%, for 60% weight, how hardly 40% would evaluate the quality of filling the holes and so on, how, you see, he wanted 100% weight, the lowest price and so on, there would be no room for any manipulation. This is a wonderful idea, and when we talked about it, I proposed to you, Prime Minister, introduce it by law, give a decree to the Council of Ministers and in all departments, to introduce this wonderful idea to all agencies. Do you remember that? When you look me in the eye, will you lie to the MPs who elected us here? Are you gonna lie? [[Reply.]] Yeah, go out there and tell me exactly what happened. I am not here to explain in expert terms why in public procurement, where there are 230 different activities, these 230 different activities have 230 single prices. Anyone who has at least a little knowledge of the Public Procurement Act will understand me in the first word, and I'm sure one part of you knows it. However, I would like to ask: why did we not introduce this wonderful idea and concrete it in a decree of the Council of Ministers? Why should only the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works apply this 100% lowest price? [[Noise and lines.]] Why shouldn't it apply to all ministries? For the Customs Agency, why shouldn't it apply? Why shouldn't it apply to the NRA and to all government agencies and companies? I took the trouble of getting out for the ministries. It is quite easy reference to take out for ministries and see what public procurements and what conditions they have passed them. There is not a single structure that has bet only at the lowest price as a criterion of choice. Not one! Get in the register, check it out. On the contrary, in most of them the price has even less weight than the quality assessment, Prime Minister. Even smaller. [[Heckling]] Where is this principle now? What's going on? Let me tell you about it. In the Ministry of Interior, Mr. Rashkov, [[noise and lines]] , 50-50. What do we appreciate? Delivery of equipment worth 15 million lv. What do you value from the plus to the minus is the current running, or the minus to the plus? What is it, exactly? What is the quality you value by 50-50? Mr. Petkov, Mr. Vassilev, how do you rate these things?! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] So, my employees can't offer 60-40, but we keep the Change going. You're a Ubernation, you're the high class. We're the low class. We're just like Hitler and Goebbels, like Hitler and Goebbels did like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u216	Mr. Karadjov, we're passing a little bit of good tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u217	I'm sorry. I'm really sorry, but that's where these principles of demeaning some people, insulting them to the chalgarians, insulting them to lower beings. And these lower beings, forever they're the thieving ones, forever they're the bad guys, and the upper class we're the best. I'm sorry. At the Ministry of Environment you have an order to map habitats for 8 million. lv. in terms of quality, how much, Mr. Kiril Petkov? [[Reply.]] 70? [[Laughter and lines from GERB-SDS.]] At 30 for a price... [[Voices from GERB-SDS: "Bravo! "]] How do you estimate them in advance, Mr. Petkov? You're principled, aren't you? Isn't that the only thing we're bad at? You're a senior. Sorry. I won't say it again. You're the seniors. In the Ministry of Education, let's go on, I won't read them all to you. There are hundreds of them. Like I said, I have papers and I can get them out to you. There's over 50 of them. [[Heckling]] There's time, yeah. You'll listen now that you're pulling the lion by the tail. [[Laughter and lines.]] Okay, come on, it's not the lion, calm down! Don't let it cheer you up a bit. [[Noise and lines.]] So, in the Ministry of Education you have an upgrade of an electronic system. You mean software of the same brand. What's the quality assessment? But you estimate it by 60%, and the price is 40. [[Laughter]] And you're mad at me for the other way around. Why? Because I brought the experts to your office, five people to explain the difference between 238 single prices and one single price? Fine, you didn't agree. Did we accept yours? We accepted it, but why didn't the others accept it, so I could ask? Customs Agency, Mr. Vassilev. The Customs Agency has five orders where the ratio of technical offer, i.e. quality, varies 60% for quality and 40% for price or the next one is 70-30. [[Radio, noise and lines from GERB-SDS and ITN.]] Okay. How do you evaluate the quality of filling holes there, Mr. Vassilev, how do you evaluate it there, and the MRDP couldn't?! Wow. Finally, I'll tell you about the NRA. [[Noise and lines.]] The NRA has an amazing order. An order to provide services for 7 million. BGN, where the ratio is 50-50, 50% for quality, 50% for price. So, I ask you, Mr. Vassilev, how do you measure the quality of xerocopy services in advance? [[(Radio.) Laughter from ISN and GERB-SDS.)]] But how will you know how to shoot each of the companies in advance? How do you evaluate quality, and you can't evaluate holes? Wow. So we get back to the double standard. The double standard is the one who put a pole in the coalition's wheel, and you didn't understand it all the time. There is such a people's attitude as to third quality people led to this collapse, I have repeatedly told you in direct conversation. At least I don't know how to lie and I don't lie in front of you. When we talk about the double standard, I'd like you to listen to me. You are very big fighters against corruption when it comes to.There is such a people and there is a MRB, but not when it comes to ministries and agencies that are managed or controlled by. In the end, I want to return to the famous conversation with Slavi Trifonov, who you tell so fascinatingly and touchingly. Maybe that's right, he was between you, I'll tell you a conversation between me and you, and you'll remember it, and now you'll remember it as you want... I look with my eyes at each of the MPs, with my eyes I look at the Bulgarian citizens in whose interests I have sworn to work and have worked. And you, by the way, know that. So, in your office, we once talked about these issues and you told me in your office: "Look, do you want me to tell you why we want to have checks by the National Assembly on TRP payments?" It was a moment of revelation, but because you're telling such frank conversations and I'm recreating it. [[He addressed Prime Minister Kiril Petkov.]] It's not because we don't believe you, you told me then, we don't believe that you're going to steal money and...... well, well, let's move on, I didn't steal and I'm not going to steal, and what you think is already in your head. [[a line from Prime Minister Cyril Petkov]] [[crowding, laughter, lines, applause from GERB-SDS and ITN]] [[speaking indistinctly]] But then you said, "I don't want if the cabinet falls, the one in the other building to pay off the companies. " [[Applause from GERB-SDS and ITN.]] Here's the truth about your notorious control, about your notorious corruption in MRD and everything. This is the truth why it was all this theater here before the National Assembly to have control over this committee, to have control over that committee, to enter the Chamber? Why? Because you're afraid of an office? [[Heckling]] But wait, I'm not afraid, let anyone come in tomorrow who wants a repairman, let them check me from top to bottom, let them not stay on paper. Are you afraid? [[Applause from GERB-SDS and ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u218	The Prime Minister has asked for the floor, therefore there is an advantage over the MPs. Here you are, Prime Minister. [[Booking and chanting by GERB-SDS: "Mafia. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u219	Dear Members of Parliament, I will now tell you something very simple. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] . Do you know how this government, how this government can be the most stable government in our history right now? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] With a few very fast moves. First move, we pay 3 billion. 900 million. lv. of Mr. Karadzhov with his 40% assessment in the hidden rooms of MRRB [[noise, lines, applause]] Toshko Yordanov immediately forgets about Macedonia. Step two, Mr. Borisov calls the phone and we call him and we say, "OK, Mr. Borisov, we will agree, we will not investigate you." The right side shuts down and becomes more organized by the best coalition partner. And on the left, by the DPS, the only thing that shouldn't be said is about the Magnetian. There's the big fear, there's the big worry. So, colleagues, the only thing I'm going to tell you without explaining in detail Mr. Karadjov's words. When I asked Slavi Trifonov why 40%, why not 20, why not 10, why not zero? He said, "You don't have a problem with Mr. Karadjov, you have a problem with me because Mr. Karadjov is just a broker." [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u220	Thank you, Prime Minister. Wait, wait, wait, let's see who I'm gonna give the floor to. [[INN noise and lines]] First, I will give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Karadajov, then to Mr. Karadaiyi and then to Mr. Toshko Yordanov in this order. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u221	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Lies go on, lies go on. Who wanted to pay 3.9 billion? lv.? We have documents on this matter. Of course, you've all heard it's me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u222	We voted in the House!?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u223	Yes, that is right, we voted in the Chamber, however, despite everything the Goebbels principle says: "Repeat a lie many times and a hundred times, and it will become like the truth. However, honourable Members, here in front of each one of you with a high forehead and in your eyes I say: "No matter how many times a lie is told, it will remain just a lie and it does not matter, and it does not matter, and it does not matter, honourable Members, how many times this lie will be sold to people. You all remember that here in Parliament the decision was made for 2.4 billion of this amount and it in the document which I have signed and which Mr. Vassilev tells me, I see that nervously calling me, there are recorded the deficits already assumed by the National Assembly. You remember the crisis, I am extremely grateful to Nastimir, to Terziyski, to the people of IHN, to everyone who signed it, because we really would have killed a lot of lives. But now let's go to that thing that the Prime Minister said and which is a lie and for which we have documents, so I'm going to ask you to be patient to see them, and I'll show them to you. On 10 September last year, here in this room, the Deputy Prime Minister, only then he is the Minister of Finance, proposes, quote, the ministers of the service offer another scandalous solution, writes in this article: lv. [[Shouts by GERB-SDS: "O, oh. "]] Here's the proposal. Okay. It does not say for control, it does not say for any inspection by an interdepartmental commission, as I had proposed since February, the order with which the Interdepartmental Control Commission was introduced is on my initiative and signed by the two of us, so at least there was some control. But then you do not offer control, Mr. Vassilev, on the contrary, the other day I saw you very cheerfully telling about major repairs under the cover of current repairs. I'm absolutely solidarity with you, but my question is... on 10 September last year didn't you see these major repairs when you wanted to spend 1.3 billion without any control? Didn't you see them? Then the illegal construction, Mr. Vassilev, didn't you see them? Illegal construction?! Why didn't you say a word? Here's the whole transcript: the 4th and 6th National Assembly. Why haven't you said a word, Mr. Vassilev? So. At the time, Mr. Vassilev, I wasn't in power, you were, I didn't even know I was coming in, I honestly told you. [[noise and lines]] , but many of you were MPs in that parliament and you remember this scandal, this real scandal, as the media defined it. That's not my word. A scandal with a smell of corruption is something I read in the media. Even one more thing, next to your photo, the media ask the following question: "So far it is not clear what caused the regional development ministers Violeta Komitova and the finances Assen Vassilev to reverse their opinion to 180 degrees? " But further down the line there is a billion and 300 million reasons why you should have turned your opinion back then. For me, Mr. Vassilev, corruption is always corruption, no matter who it is done by, and I do not know whether this is the same for you.We continue the Change and for you, but I know that if someone is promoting the interests of road companies, of road-building companies, I am neither I nor there is such a people and if someone is a broker, it is neither I nor there is such a people, the brokers have started the work since the summer of 2021 and as I look at you and until now you have not stopped, the brokers. [[Applause from the "There is such a people" and the DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u224	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Wait a minute, let me just explain how we're doing from here on out. I will give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev and with this theme on which we are already...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u225	No, no, no! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u226	What does no mean, Mr. Cholakov? What do you mean, no? The topic of the debate is a vote of no confidence, a vote of no confidence, is not what the media wrote last year. I've given Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov enough time, I've given the Deputy Prime Minister enough time to clarify his position. Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev has the floor and then we will clarify the procedures and give two minutes to each group to express their attitude. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u227	Mr. Karadjov, you have been forgiven. You were not in this room, but most of the people here were. Okay. If you remember very well, this proposal on behalf of the Construction Chamber was entered. What I've said here, from this tribune, is that this is a violation of the law that it's coming in so that the ERPs can be unstopped. What you neglected to say was that a company by company, contract contract were listed the companies in this draft decision and it was said that API would do a check before paying the money a company by company, contract by contract, so that there would be no judgment on who would get the money and who would not get the money. The National Assembly is a company by company, contract by contract! Mr. Cholakov went out on the stand and said: "I do not know who these companies are, I will not support this decision. " So much for real estate. When the National Assembly decides a company by company, contract by contract, after checking the API there is no one to broker. This is not a solution that says: the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Finance, at their discretion, will decide who to pay, when to pay and what to pay. Everything here has been imported, again I say, firm by company, contract by contract, with the clear opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which to this day prevents you from the fact that these contracts are illegal and that they have been concluded in violation of a number of laws. Check the transcript. Check Mr. Cholakov's statement, then... [[Replication by MP Radomir Cholakov.]] Yes, come out, tell me. You said, "We don't know who these companies are, we don't want to approve their contracts. " - And we don't know who they are. So take it easy on the speculation of who's doing what. The other thing I want to tell you, Mr. Karadjov, is that this conversation wouldn't have been held if I had said yes to that 3.9 billion. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Only I said no. So much for who's the conductor of which corrupt interests. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u228	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Petkov had asked for the floor before Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov came out. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Mr. Karadaye, it was far before you. It was for procedure, wasn't it, Mr. Petkov? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is for you. I'm asking you, when there are people who are lost, to navigate them, because things are not good. I will seize this function and remind Mr. Yordanov that we are not in a meeting of the group and the protocols for Macedonia cannot be imposed here in the National Assembly. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] To Mr. Bikov and Mr. Dilov there we can't navigate them, they're totally lost. The fact that GERB and DPS are clapping at his speeches so zealously shows that the match has long been lost there. Thank you. [[Applause from the Council of Ministers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u230	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You stated this morning that you will follow the rules today, but alas, you do not. I appeal to you, Mr. President, from this tribune, when a sworn criminal and a transgressor of the Constitution goes to shovel lies, the least you have to do is make a remark to him. But as far as this liar and the sworn criminal is concerned, we still need to remind him...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u232	Mr. Karadayi, if you please, without insults, personal...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u233	...that the theme "Magnite" is a topic of interest, interesting, curious and it is good to know, only not to lie. Otherwise, Mr. Peevsky is doing his business in America. It is a democratic state, it has its own legislation. There are certain procedures going on there. But let's remind this liar that he signed papers saying that Mr. Peevsky had nothing to do with it. Is that when he's lying or now? Let us remind him and the company, who have been ministers for a year and are in power that their acts our court, the Bulgarian court declared them illegal! Those lawbreakers! From this point of view, Mr. Chairman, please come to the subject of the debate. This topic was interesting, which we heard just now, and I understand the place of this topic is not in this room, but in the prosecution, the prosecution! They blame themselves for corrupting one says he's corrupt, the other says he's corrupt! Therefore, honourable Members of Parliament, I call on you to implement the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Rules of the National Assembly and to remove them from power. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u234	Mr. Yordanov, you have the floor of the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Procedure in the manner of conduct. It's really nice... I know the Prime Minister can talk whenever he wants. But if one of us here starts lying so brutally, there's bound to be a punishment. It's just not right. From my personal experience with Asen and Kiril, although I have had serious clashes with both of them while we were in coalition, including I stopped going to the council because of Mr. Asen Vassilev, but from my personal experience with this whole thing I can't say that Mr. Assen Vasilev, when I talked to him about business and he made a commitment, didn't keep his word or lied to me. Again, we are generally against financial policy and the results it has brought to the country at the moment. But I can't say that he looked me in the eye and lied to me, unlike the person standing next to him who looked me in the eye many times and lied to me. And he's lying right now. He swore on his word and then spit on himself. So please hold them off, because if I start talking like them, I know you're stalking me and you're gonna take me out of three sessions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u236	We are moving on to attitude from the parliamentary groups. For the procedure Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. I expected you to take the attitude you didn't. So, let me remind you when insulting qualifications are used, Mr. Karadaye left the room, but make a remark to him. You said you would follow the Rules at the beginning of this sitting. I think that a repeated violation of the Rules should require punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u238	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. For expression of attitude, Mr. Ananiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u239	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My attitude is to Minister Karadjov's statement on actually several different topics that he mentioned. The first is the comparison with the various public contracts. Both at every airport and at every customs office and in the government there is a corruption risk. Corruption risk in the Regional Ministry is the biggest thanks to these colleagues here from GERB. [[shows]] Fact! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Because of this high corruption risk, everything that happens in the Regional Ministry should be seen under a magnifying glass. We all know what happened with the Inhouse. By the way, Mr. Karadjov had promised an investigation of the In House. We never heard it. But I heard that for the highway we will pay more than 400 million, which surprised me a bit, because I only knew that the road Botevgrad Vidin will be paid, not for Hemus. Apparently, the inhouse procedures continue there. At least it's not right for me personally. The other thing, which is the fact that in the Regional Commission we have discussed the budget several times with the various amounts, but the amount of 3.9 billion has never been mentioned. At the last discussion of the budget came Deputy Minister Penchev and handed us a document in which half of the numbers we had never seen. Another problem that is very important to say that there was no parliament during the service cabinet, there was no one to control, as the parliament was disbanded! Currently, the report, which came out, 79% of the repairs for ongoing repair and maintenance, are in fact major repairs, which in the Commission GERB and the DPS are defending against violence because they want this money to be paid as ongoing repair and maintenance! But that's the taxpayers' money. There's no way we can go out there and pay them without reservation. The system, which has come up with 50% so that the roads can start to get better at the moment is the summer season, we have too many travelers! And 50% to guarantee public resources! This was the best option for guaranteeing these funds! Corruption risk is very high because terrible outrage has occurred in the Regional Ministry for Road Construction! [[Reply: "Search! "]] Regarding the quality of road construction in the last 10 years, you can say it all you who use the roads and know how it was built irresponsiblely because it was stolen! Bulgarian citizens were stolen and killed on the roads across Bulgaria because of this corruption! Corruption kills and everything that needs to be done will be done to stop it! Thank you. [[Applause from the Council of Ministers Continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u240	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. From GERB-SDS? Mrs. Atanasova, you? Here you go. Colleagues, don't call the time!.................... because now Mrs. Atanasova will delay it.............................................................. You have the floor, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u241	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I didn't expect this debate to bring out the lightened railings of power! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] One hour Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister are telling things from the kitchen to the extent that the President of the Republic is involved, with the words, I quote Kiril Petkov, according to Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov: If the cabinet falls, the one across the street will pay!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u242	A woman said!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u243	It's not a woman! There's the deputy prime minister, and the prime minister didn't deny it. Is that why, respectable, for several days for you, the President of the Republic is a man who has been confused; is he a complete disappointment according to the Bozinka or the Bojan, excuse me, in politics?! [[Happy tidings in GERB-SDS.]] And some called him a villain! And you have the confidence to talk about mafia, you! You! [[He addressed Prime Minister Kiril Petkov.]] The man who violated the Constitution with his first clash with the oath of the Constitution! Are you going to talk about zero tolerance for corruption, corrupters! That's my comment. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS. Prime Minister Kiril Petkov stands up and heads for the stands. Loud noise, shouting from GERB-SDS: No! No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u244	Colleagues, Mr. Bojankov has the floor for a personal explanation. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u245	Mrs. Atanasova, I didn't expect this from you as a parliamentarians with a longer experience. Now, it is your right, you have taken a sharp interest in President Radev, you have become very sympathetic, why this is due to me, I have no idea. But you're particularly emotional today. I also follow you in the hall, track and your Facebook profile, write: Assen Vasilev's scandal and unacceptable statement and quote a few things. But, Mrs. Atanasova, you are a parliamentarians with experience. Every time you hear a vulgar word or blow, you can't go out on the stand right now. It doesn't work that way. [[(Radio.) Laughter. We are continuing the Change (BSP) and the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u246	Mr. Bojankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u247	And here you seem to feel discriminated against because it's about the poor. Obviously, you want to hurt yourself there, and you're not the poor. I'm sorry about that, too. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u248	Mr. Bojankov! [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] Colleagues, if I impose on Mr. Bojankov's punishment, I will have to return to impose one on both Mrs. Atanasova and Mr. Karadayi for the insults Mr. Karadayi and Mrs. Atanasova addressed to the representatives of the Council of Ministers. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] For attitude by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor. I apologize for you finding microphones like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers, Ministers! Mr. President, it was a very nice call for a good tone, for a bon tone, but if this is a bon tone, I don't know, let them judge those who are watching, because it seems to me rather like another bottom that we are digging here in the Bulgarian Parliament, both as a tone, as a content, and as a statement, and as everything that people do not want to see. The attitude we want to take to what Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov said is that what he said, we have been seeing him for six months now. We also see it in that famous decision that wanted to turn the Bulgarian Parliament into an audit firm. We warned and so on. Because someone doesn't want to be held responsible. I personally have no reason to sympathize with Mr. Karadjov, we were political opponents, nor do I think he's lying because he hasn't lied to us before. Personally, I didn't see any public proof of his claim to be a lie. However, what we see otherwise from this tribune today, said by the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, I can also describe the interpretation of the figures and all that we hear from this tribune. 1989. Some of you weren't born, there was a wonderful film that was nominated even for the Palmat in Cannes, I can't remember if you won the Palmat in Cannes, but it was a great movie, the movie was called Sex, lies and video. That's what we've been seeing from this office for six months now. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]] With the addition that the video will continue to be watched, I promise you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u250	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. And you, as the most experienced parliamentarians among us, are setting this tone of non-compliance with the good spirit in this House. At least you could resist the temptation to do so. BSP Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Prime Minister, Ministers, Members of the House! Now it's clear why we're meeting for five hours. Bulgarian citizens watch and do not understand what we are discussing because neither the importers of the vote want to protect it, they want to expose the government in a misguided financial policy, nor those who withdrew their support from the cabinet, say why they have withdrawn. And the fact is that for five hours of debate three hours we are not talking about the motives of colleagues from GERB, three hours they are silent because they know that there is nothing to say, but we are talking about these things that they really want to bring down the cabinet. And chat-pat includes the topic "Northern Macedonia" which is not the topic of the National Assembly this week, stated by everyone, including the Prime Minister. But we keep talking about something going on somewhere, continuing private conversations, private conversations, in offices or on phones, telling each other about them from this tribune. That's the ugliest thing in politics, by the way. Guys, don't do this! This does not set a good example for anyone ahead of you to tell your private conversations about what you said in the study or on the phone on a occasion. Communication must be public, it must be clear and it is public. The rest is not for society. And since I have taken the floor, I will also address my colleagues from the age because they said they would support the vote of mistrust. Colleagues, on the first page of the statement of reasons, wrote: The time limits for membership in the community are at risk. The accession to which was a top priority in GERB's management mandate, along with the entry into the European Banking Union and the ERM2. Tell me when you are honest when you want a referendum on the euro when you want to leave the European Union [[Applause from..We continue the Change..... BSP for Bulgaria...............................................................................................]] or now when you want to overthrow the government, which according to GERB slows down all these processes? You have to be eloquent here. The voters outside, who are waiting, will watch him, how you vote, whether against the delay of all these things that GERB says this government makes them and pushs them through time, or you will support this vote of mistrust. And the vote with the DPS colleagues as well. Look, because your supporters outside are watching you carefully! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u252	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. There is such a people, colleagues, will anyone want the floor? No. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? No. From rebirth, colleagues? Mr. Kostadinov and then the independents will also have the opportunity to express their attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u253	Mr. Chairman, when the debates on the resignation of the President of the National Assembly passed here last week, many of us probably thought that it could not get worse than what it was, because indeed then the current Bulgarian Parliament hit the bottom, but today it turned out that there is a double bottom. Unfortunately, what we are witnessing here is really something extremely impersonal and something that hits on the authority of Bulgarian statehood. We will not talk about parties here, we will not even talk about personalities, because the interpersonal attacks end up at the expense of all of us, because when here, from this tribune, or inside the Chamber, some people who far from everyone recognize them on the street, start fighting, get offended, yell at each other, eventually the huge part of the Bulgarian society learns that there is something there that MPs have exposed themselves again. From this point of view, I think that... and, of course, our opinion, of rebirth, is such that at present this Parliament has completely exhausted its moral mandate, of course. The government, for its part, by repeating again well-known, told repeatedly and unfortunately, never proved in practice statements that are gradually growing into serious lies, cannot convince us that we must give our trust to this cabinet. From this point of view, the best solution that can happen is as quickly as possible all of us with the clear responsibility that here each of us represents tens of thousands of Bulgarian voters, to do what is necessary so that we can go to new elections that will now serve as a referendum. Because what Mr. Svilensky said is very accurate to see the voters. We all have to respect our constituents. No one has said that we should respect each other quite so much, but our voters must respect each other because we other voters have no other people. From this point of view, the best solution now, in view of the spinning propaganda machine with all sorts of lies, slanders, well-known re-known mixtures of truths, half-truths, honest lies, the best solution to escape this extremely unpleasant carousel that turns Bulgarian politics into, unfortunately, almost an analogue of a cesspool, to go to elections that we already, in conversations with our constituents, tell them clearly and categorically who wants to do what, who thinks to do it, who did what. Then we can talk about conversations and debates, including with you, Mr. Svilensky, and with everyone else we can talk about who betrayed who, who said what, who promised what and who fulfilled what. Because when the facts speak, the gods do not speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u254	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. [[National Representative Ivo Atanasov wants the floor.]] Mr. Atanasov, however, after consulting the regulations, he does not allow the independent to express their attitude. I can give you the floor of procedure. You have the floor, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u255	Probably for over half an hour, Mr. Chairman, I want this procedure because in my reply to Mr. Karimansky you allowed Tosko Yordanov to express his opinion and my reply was to Mr. Karimanski. I wanted Lyubo Karimanski to stand up for the case I described and tell Ivo Atanasov whether he was lying or not. And in relation to the attitude of the "There is such a people" at the time of the three parliaments, which is again part of this procedure, I will tell you that "There is such a people" is the only transition party that lied in the most brutal way its voters. The questions from the referendum, all the aims of the party in art. 4 of the Statute, absolutely nothing has been fulfilled, and never has the leadership of the "There is such a people" intended to fulfil these objectives. They are not placed on the negotiating table. So in today's vote you are involved in two parliaments, you cannot make a government. You are participating in a government in which the only problem today is not this vote or to be supported by such a people is some billions that are not given to our ministers. And Toshko Yordanov knows this thing very well.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u256	Isn't that an attitude?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u257	Now, if they were given, the order of Toshko Yordanov would be: How can you ask a failed state for four billion? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I want to say that Ivo Atanasov is never a liar, but all those who have touched GERB who have touched GERB, the workers of GERB, who have supported them during the years, have gone into history. This will also be the fate of the.. There is such a people. I feel sorry for my fellow Members - honest, worthy Bulgarians, MPs who follow orders and cannot express their own will. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and the ministers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u258	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u259	Mr. Chairman, procedure in the manner of conduct. Now, I understand that the newly baptized by another faith are the greatest fanatics in the new organization they are in. I also understand that the problem that the North Macedonians have with national identity is expressed in the defamation of the Bulgarians. And you are now admitting a man who until yesterday has spoken the exact opposite of what he is now saying to prove what a humble slave he is to his new friends, which has no relation to today's conversation. If whoever's talking wants to tell me something, come and tell me. About the lie you lied about. But do you know who were the ones who slaughtered the Bulgarians in Batak? They were led by Ahmed Aga, who is a pomak. So at the moment there are five, in the bad sense of the word. You understand what I'm saying, newly baptized.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u260	Mrs. Ninova... [[Noise and lines.]] Wait, wait, wait! I didn't give anyone the floor. Mr. Atanasov, you had... [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a minute. Mr. Atanasov, for a personal explanation, please. Mrs. Ninova, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u261	All MPs of the House There is such a people, you have witnessed what I have publicly said to the entire group of the Toshko Yordanov. He said in front of everyone when we'd turn off the power, pull the plug. Ivo Atanasov is not for sale or betraying the cause we were all going for. So, if there are slaves, these are the slaves that remained in..There is such a people. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Ivo Atanasov is an honest, proud, brave man, has not sold himself to And he will continue to stand up for what he has been sent to this Parliament and the citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u262	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mrs. Ninova, come on in. I'm sorry I had to bring you back. You have the floor. Now we'll get back to the topic of today's debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u263	I believe, however, that a vote of no confidence for economics will have the floor and the Minister of Economy. Dear Bulgarian citizens, today we are formally having a discussion about a vote of no confidence for financial and economic policy. I say formally because from the numbers and data that were exported at the beginning of the day, I hope it becomes clear that a vote for failure in economic policy is now a rather untenable claim. And I just got another argument as to why these debates are just a formality for economics and finance. I think that most of you "Bulgarian citizens" understand that it is about money and some principles and no debates about finance and economics. But I am still the Minister of Economy and Industry, and I want to protect the government's policy in this area, first, and then I will talk to you about corruption, behind-the-scenes evidence in the economy, and why I believe that the reason for the request to overthrow the cabinet is that the backstage was threatened because the change began and because it sees the only salvation for itself in bringing down this cabinet and the return of the status quo. But that's in a minute. First, many things have been said about economics, many numbers, always in such situations are made all kinds of interpretations. I'm offering you a different one. When you evaluate something better, whether it's worse, or whether it's status quo, you have to compare it to something else, not just represent it as numbers, but compare it. And because in the motives of the vote, the main thread that creeps is: Petkov's cabinet must go away, because Borisov was better managed by the state and were better finances and the economy. That's the motive. I decided to present to your attention the comparison between this cabinet and Borisov. Comparisons were presented with Europe, comparisons were presented inside the previous periods. I've pulled some comparisons from Borisov and now for the same period, as it is done professionally in these cases. The first quarter of 2021, and you conclude with what this cabinet is so bad that it has to go away to return Borisov, as it says in the reasons. Gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2021 Boyko Borisov - minus 1.8, decline in gross domestic product. Gross domestic product first quarter 2022 4 plus. Unemployment supposed to Borisov 6.1, unemployment is now 4-6. Industrial production supplied by Borisov 109%, now by supposed by 126. Direct foreign investment "Borisov" 244 million, now 883 million. Exports "Borisov" "16.7, export now "33.6." However, I would like to report another difference between these comparisons, the numbers speak for themselves. At the time, there was no war, no energy supply crisis, no price growth.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u264	He had a horse.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u265	Yeah, there was a Kove, but there was a Kovid at the beginning of this year. So add four more crises to the casket and look at the comparison.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u266	Colleagues, please don't move. Mr. Bikov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u267	The reasons of the vote to leave the government Petkov to return Borisov are not just untenable, they are arrogant. But, honourable Bulgarian citizens, we cannot deny that we have two open issues. Yes, the macroeconomic indicators, the financial indicators of the country are stable.Be calm, Bulgaria is financially stable and economically well-developed, despite all the circumstances outside and inside the country, but we have open issues. The first is price growth, impoverishment, inequalities, decreased purchasing power and, the second, the justice that I will talk about in the end. The Bulgarian government has taken measures to combat this first problem: prices and impoverishment, by the way, measures that our opponents criticise, but are measures introduced around the world and across Europe, the same measures to remove fuel taxes, to reduce food VAT, to support the electricity compensation business, to support young families, to increase pensioners' incomes, the same. Our opponents praise the situation in Europe, criticize us for the same things. We, as a coalition partner in the government, are satisfied with what is happening on this topic - incomes, poverty and inequalities. And I thank the coalition partners for their social sensitivity, because in the measures that the government has taken, in terms of 20 billion, one third of GDP spending in social policy in April and another two billion are now the true social face of this government. We are pleased because for six years we have fought them as opposition to having free kindergartens and finally there are free kindergartens. It's been our policy for years. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And what's more, those parents who couldn't afford kindergartens for the kids got compensation last week. We are pleased because our many-year battle for increasing motherhood and raising a child for the second year has already been a fact [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We are grateful, because our many-year battle for a fair reclaim of the pensions has not happened, for six months it has been a fact. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I know it is very difficult and no one in such times talks about culture, but remember, honourable MPs from GERB how long it took us as opposition to convince you how useful the cultural check is. You claimed it wasn't. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because billions and two hundred vouchers for workers, for food, electricity and heating can also be used for cultural events. We are pleased because our fight for differentiated VAT on foods, although only for bread, is already being applied. We are pleased that every household will be compensated by the prices and reduction of excise duties on fuel and, of course, as Minister of Economy to say something, as many things have been said by people who I am sure have not seen a living businessman or owner of a small and medium-sized firm in recent months. Tell you how it is in dialogue with these people. The Bulgarian economy has a 4% growth in the first quarter thanks to two things: the support of the cabinet for the Bulgarian business and their efforts of the business to keep jobs and not shut down their companies. This was a joint effort in dialogue, in numerous meetings at the Ministry of Economy and Industry with employers. I congratulate them and thank them for this well-meaning dialogue and for the program that we worked together to save the Bulgarian economy and preserve Bulgarian jobs. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] There have been criticisms regarding inflation, corruption and other topics, but I want you to see how they are reflected in the motives. I once called these motives political schizophrenia, and I'll tell you why. Honourable Members of Parliament, the reasons why the claim is not the money under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, and that is why the government must go away. Only when the government is gone, the money will be gone for another year. You find that it is a weakness, that they are gone, and you want the government to fall so that they are gone for another year. Secondly, there is no support for the energy business and there are lobbying interests because of RES, you say and at the same time you want the government to fall so that the Energy Act, which is waiting for you in the committees, where the overprofits of companies are seized and given to businesses. Isn't that some kind of split personality? Some good things don't happen, let's get rid of these people, so they don't happen for another six months and throw the country into chaos and political timelessness. Third, honored by the IHN, Toshko Yordanov said the reason for leaving the coalition was Macedonia, but apparently he did not read his reasons for the vote. Honourable Members, one third of the motives are against the energy policy of this government. There is a people who will support a no-confidence vote on energy, where they had a minister for six months, and not for a second have they distinguished themselves from this energy policy. And now they're voting against their own minister?! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I may have further arguments, but I'd rather tell you the more interesting thing. You understand that what is spoken here formally and is written in the motives are not the real reasons for the request of the cabinet's resignation. What took place just now between the MPD colleagues and the prime minister and the finance minister was ugly, but I strongly oppose the attempt to put a stain on the entire government. I strongly oppose the attempt to rewrite exactly what we are fighting against corruption, and I will tell you how. There is a difference between the Bulgarian Socialist Party and there is such a people. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There is a difference between the Ministry of Economy and Industry and the MRDP. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear Bulgarian citizens, what happens in the roads, one to one happens in the dams. Do you remember 500 million for the renovation of a dam? I didn't act like my colleagues in the.There is such a people, I didn't go twisting their hands. Give me another 500 million to continue pouring money into the bottomless register of corruption and theft. I called ADFI and the Court of Auditors, here are the reports. [[Shows reports.]] [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] This is how it is done in the rule of law, where you care about institutions, you call institutions and they pronounce themselves. You don't go to dark rooms to bargain for three billion more so you can pour them into the same thefts they've gone to before. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] And here I will prove to you why the mafia, status quo, oligarchs and thieves rose against the government with documents, not by texting, not by secret conversations, because this is the National Assembly, where politics is being made. This isn't a confessional. A report by the Court of Auditors, which says the following: The construction works of the ventilated dams do not fall within the definition of ongoing repairs but constitute major repairs. They do not have issued building papers required by the Law, they do not have approved projects and they do not have a building permit, that is, the construction works are illegal. I stop them and they go to the D.A.'s office. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] As a result of what happened to "Montage" EAD, a significant amount of financial resources were provided without being reliably secured and without having the conditions of prepared and approved technical projects and quantitative-valued accounts for the actual start of the repair activities. Negotiation and payment of advances representing 100% of the activity. 100% advance without any renovated dam, i.e. one, of the total price for the execution of the respective contracts, cannot be characterised as corresponding to market conditions, does not correspond to the principles of efficiency and economy in the expenditure of public funds and constitutes fraud under the Criminal Code. I stop him and he goes to the D.A.'s office. [[Applause from the government, "We continue the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] The terms and conditions for the conduct of public contracts laid down in the law are not applied for the award of the repair activities. In conclusion of the contracts, the principles of publicity and transparency have not been complied with, no conditions have been announced for participation in public competition procedures. I'll transfer a few because it's getting too much, but there are interesting ones. Guarantee of execution. As insurance policies, as well as their General Terms and Conditions, indicate that the insurer does not owe compensation in the event that the persons are connected, insurance is not attributable to a 100% interest rate on illegal constructions, to related persons. I didn't ask for $3 billion to continue it at the D.A.'s office. Something interesting that must excite the Pernians. For an object with an emergency plumbing construction from Malo Buchino to the town of Pernik together with a pumping station and tank for emergency water supply of Pernik. The construction is not complete and despite the past tests, the emergency water supply is not used. [[noise and lines]] Thus, no effective urgent action has been taken to help Pernik's population. The implementation of the construction works without a contract with the contracting entity or contractor, as well as the signing of acts and protocols during the construction by a non-participant of the construction process, shall constitute fraud in accordance with art. 209 of the Penal Code. Pernik's plumbing is going to the D.A.'s office! [[Applause from the government, "We continue the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] Other topic: "Ecoengineering and reconstruction of mines." The provisions of the Public Procurement Act are surrounded by a total over-alignment of the activities, with third parties having received the execution of the contract, respectively being made available to them a public financial resource without having been involved at all in the conduct and award of the activities and so on and so forth. Dear Bulgarian citizens, today the choice is not between whether the economic policy is good and the financial situation, today the choice is between two alternatives. We have a party alternative "GERB," "There is such a people", DPS and arbitrariness voted against the vote, against the government budget, this is the strongest indicator of who is opposition and who is together. [[Comments from GERB-SDS and ISN.]] They voted against [[noise and lines]] They voted for Nicolas to be taken down.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u268	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u269	So we have this one to call a party block, but do we have a social, economic, financial alternative? Is there an alternative to fighting corruption? We didn't hear any suggestions for a minute. Okay, this government is leaving, what do you suggest? What do you suggest? What kind of non-inflation measure do you propose? Don't give people income, stop the help of the business. Tell me! Everything is pro-inflation and wrong for you. Okay, you're entitled to a different opinion, but tell me what you're proposing, what's the alternative? You only want to destroy this cabinet so that you can unite and stop the change that has begun. Dear Bulgarian citizens, the choice is figuratively between these two folders. [[Shows two folders.]] Between their covers are stolen 1 billion. 200 million. The Court of Auditors and the Agency for State and Financial Inspection have proved that the Court of Auditors and the Agency for State and Financial Inspection. Mr. Gheshev, they've been sitting at your desk for a long time, what's going on? [[Applause from the government, "We continue the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] And figuratively speaking, the other folder, which is financial stability, economic growth, social policy and the continuing struggle for justice for the removal of the old management model - oligarchic, backstage, devastating for Bulgaria. The choice is yours, dear Bulgarian citizens. [[(Applause from the government, "We continue the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria. Announcements from the BSP for Bulgaria "Bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u270	Mr. Balabanov, do you want a procedure? For procedure, come in. [[Reply.]] You don't have time for twenty-six seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u271	Give me a minute. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know we don't have time, but I can't use this procedure the way it is, because we've just heard another lie. The Prime Minister's been lying all day. [[noise and lines]] Now Mrs. Ninova lied. Ms. Ninova, what did you just say that we did not support the budget update? Is that what you said? We supported the update of the budget in its full form, and we will also support it at second reading. Stop lying to people, please! Now, how I explain it to myself, perhaps it is lifesaving for you to remain in this coalition, but when we speak with facts, the truth, let us acknowledge them as they are, because you know very well, because you and I know each other from some coalition councils and how they took place, and what the truth is, and what our positions are. All day the Prime Minister has been lying that as part of the mob, we wanted to blow up a ministry, steal billions. Well, Mr. Grozdan Karadjov blew him up with facts and truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u272	Mr. Balabanov, one minute is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u273	So separate yourself from liars and act practically. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u274	There are requests. [[Deputy Prime Minister Cornelia Ninova wants the floor. Replices.]] The Deputy Prime Minister can take the floor whenever he wants, so I'm obliged to give it, even though it gets a replica.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u275	Dear Mr. Balabanov, I only distinguish myself from the old way in which you have been communicating with each other lately with your personal messages, with your conversations, with personal attacks, with your epithets. From this I am clearly distinguished and there is no way to get me into this dialogue. As far as the budget goes. Honourable Members of the Council There is such a people, you in the Commission have abstained from voting the budget, you have abstained from voting the budget, and you have publicly said: We will support the social measures, but we will not support the others........................... and you know that if you support pensions and not support the other measures, there is no place for pension money to come from. [[There is such a people.]] [[Noise and lines from IHN.]] So these interpretations: we supported, but in fact only social without the others, mean lack of support. Either you state plain and clear: this is a budget and we will support it, or you are not stalling. I will support the social worker in order to deceive people that you are social, but others will not. Well, that way social security measures will never get in. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u276	The Minister of Agriculture has applied for Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Chobanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u277	Mr. Atanasov, may I have an attitude towards the Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u278	Excuse me? What attitude to the Deputy Prime Minister? Her entire speech was on the subject of the debate. What kind of attitude do you take? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS and ITN.]] Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear government, ladies and gentlemen! When I was preparing for this debate, I did not know that the statement at the moment I did this would appear a sort of summary of the discussion that is being held at the moment, in two directions. The first is rather political, there the summary comes naturally from what we heard as a exchange of lines and speeches between yesterday's coalition partners. The second part is in a comparative order, because here both the government and the opposition -- that is, the voters -- spoke in this direction. That is to say, in these two directions, my very statement is also organized. Let's start with these generalizations based on what we heard. Family relations dominate the management of the economic and financial area not in the last six months, but in the last one year, as we see the performers here on the right. I mean, the responsibility lies with you for the last year. What are we looking at? We observe disregard for the Constitution, rules and regulations. There is no consistency, no adequate assessment of the economic situation, no ability to plan and therefore we are in a constant state of budget update. Here we have even heard that we have to cross off the policy that is being conducted in the country after 1998. This, by the way, means that we are also crossing this period of unprecedented economic growth and social policy, which was observed from 2001 to 2008, especially between 2005 and 2008, when pensions were doubled when wages were doubled when we had 30% direct foreign investment and we had an economic growth of 7% per year. Yes, I am talking about the management of the Triple Coalition with the mandate of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. However, by ignoring after 1998 and leaving unaddressed problems before 1997, before the currency board in the country existed, the idea remains with us that this policy is hardly supported before 1997 and now we have some repetition of this policy. I hope not! There is no management program, no reforms, no care for vulnerable groups and no focus on them, no predictability for business. In the same way, commitments were made to municipalities, which we do not see in the update how they will be fulfilled. Inflation is left to rumble with terrible force, so that there is more to be redistributed. Why is it being reassigned more, and why is it left like this? To direct their financial flows, quite possibly to back-to-back loops. It was about poverty, in a vulgar way. What we have to say is that we still have 783,000 pensions that are below the poverty line. But what we need to say is that this level of pensions, which is offered in the update, is the level that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms set during the previous budget update with 120 BGN. supplements for pensioners. Now you are trying to reach this level and maintain it, but the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is also going to say our opinion on this issue between first and second readings. Let's move on to the numbers. Why are these comparisons important, this comparative order? Yes, you can compare with a previous cabinet, you can also compare how we stand in a comparative European plan. That's what I'm gonna do in the next few minutes. If we say that we are better now than we were a year ago, we need to improve on the charts in comparison with other European countries. Isn't that right? So where were we in the first quarter of the previous year, where are we now? And then there were crises for the other European countries, and now there are crises. The same applies to us at the time there were crises, and now there are crises. That is, to see how we treat the other European countries in comparison: are we falling in this ranking, or are we going up? If we're getting on the charts, there's probably something to brag about now's office. If we want to catch up with the European average level, we need to grow faster than European indicators. Is this happening? Unfortunately, no. I'm saying this with great disappointment. Colleagues here in the right part of the Chamber know that I was one of the main critics of GERB since 2009. This can be confirmed in my public appearances. So I'm doing this comparison based on objective numbers to see what we've built up, if the model has changed and where we're now in economic terms. Unfortunately, the results are as follows: inflation reached 15.6% by national methodology and 13.4% by European methodology. Only four countries in the European Union have higher inflation than us in May this year. Let's turn to May last year and see what it was like with GERB. Like I said, I have no intention of praising them, and I've never done it, but let's see the numbers. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 14 countries of the European Union were higher inflation than us, and now there are four countries, then there were 14. Inflation of producer prices for the domestic market in April is nearly 50%, with only four countries in the European Union with higher inflation than us. This is due to the lack of dialogue, lack of coordination, lack of sensitivity to our proposals and those of business. For us, numbers are not so important to themselves, they are not self-target. People are important to us, and their lives are getting harder and harder. This inflation at producer prices guarantees even higher inflation for people, even greater impoverishment and social tensions. This inflation at producer prices creates risks for the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy. Now there are four countries with higher inflation than us in April, last year there were 15 with higher inflation. I mean, we can't brag here that we're doing better. The European Commission's inflation forecast for 2021 is nearly 12%, with only Lithuania with higher inflation than us. What was observed last year? Last year, the European Commission predicted 12 countries from the European Union to be higher inflation than us, that is, we are behind here too. We have also heard about the growth of exports and about the growth of imports, of course, which is growing faster than exports, which is important. It is important that this year the trade deficit is 3.9 billion. lv. At 1.7 billion. lv. Last year, i.e. the trade deficit deteriorated by 2.2 billion. lv. Economic growth in the first quarter of seasonally listed data is 4%, and we are 23 in terms of growth in the European Union. The European Union itself is growing by 5.6%. Ours is 4%, and theirs is 5.6%. Do you think we are catching up with the European Union or are we still falling behind? Last year we weren't in a particularly high place in growth, but we were in the 19th, and now we're in the 23rd. The European Commission's spring forecast is for growth of 2.1% and we are 22 places forecast as growth. Last year, according to the forecast, we were in 17th place as predicted growth. Potential growth, which is very important for the medium-term development of the economy, is estimated to be 1.5%, again by the European Commission, being 21st place according to this forecast. Last year is forecast 2.1% and we were 13th according to this forecast. That is, we are behind here too, and this has to do with long-term development. The number of employees in the first quarter increased by 1.6% and we are in the 24th place in the European Union. You see, we're all in line and out of here, like there's no movement and there's no peeling. Last year we were not at the front again, in the 20th place, which means we can't make any progress here either. The European Commission's forecast for 2022 for employment is for growth of 0,2% and this gives us 26th place, again in the queue in the European Union for growth of this indicator. Last year, the European Commission gave us seventh place, that is, far ahead. Now, as we pay attention to foreign direct investment, I will get there. For us are very important investments in the economy, as part of gross domestic product, or so-called gross capital formation of fixed capital. A comparison was made here in the first quarter of what happened to foreign direct investment. Here I will now tell you what happened in the first quarter in real terms with investments as part of GDP. It has happened that they are at their lowest value since 2013, first quarter, so far. That is, taking the first quarters again every year since then is now the lowest value. These are, after all, the investments that are here, inside the country. Our concern isn't just for outside investors. Of course, they should, too, for local investors, but as we can see, these investments continue to decrease. They decrease by 5.6% in real terms, which really gives us a place again in the queue in the European Union and on this indicator. Separately, we have five consecutive quarters that these investments decrease in real terms. Prime Minister, agree that this is not a good development and something has to be done to break this trend, but unfortunately nothing like this has been done. And here and by this indicator we are in the queue in the European Union, 25th place compared to the other countries. I'm going to skip the industrial production index. There we really are third, but monthly, if we take it, we drop from the previous month, which may be the beginning of a negative trend, but hopefully not. The government debt. The state debt, in my opinion, is correct to compare at the end of the year to the end of last year. What awaits us this year is to imitate an additional over 8 billion debt, to see when and how it will happen and at what cost. In my opinion, the price would be far less profitable if we had done so far and the additional interest costs could reach the range of 300-400 million. lv. Annually. These interest costs will not be used for other activities. They will be used to repay the debt. In April this year, debt increases by 2.5 billion. lv. compared to April last year. Indeed, according to the beginning of the year, gross debt decreases by 1 billion, but net debt increases by 300 million. That is, this reduction is at the cost of the fiscal reserve in particular in April. Let's get to foreign direct investment. I'd really love to have a good reason to analyze them, too. To be tall, to pay attention and say: this is important, will contribute to higher growth of the Bulgarian economy. There was talk about the first quarter of foreign direct investment, and what happened in April? This is preliminary data, of course, but the rest are preliminary data. In April, foreign direct investment fell by 230 million. Euros. Here, if we use speculation so far, if another three months go down by that much, they'll disappear. Let's hope we don't get there. And if we see for the first four months compared to the first four months of last year what happens to foreign direct investment, they really are growing by 456 million. Euros. However, what is due to this increase according to the information that the Bulgarian National Bank publishes on its website. Seventy-one percent of this increase, colleagues, is due to the suspension of the debt reduction of Bulgarian companies to the parent companies abroad. This year the first four months this debt fell by only 36 million, and last year it decreased by over 350 million. Euros. But this is accounted for as an investment, and you know that intra-corporate debt to non-residents is accounted for as a direct foreign investment. This is where the big increase in foreign direct investment lies. Unfortunately, we can't talk about new projects. Unfortunately, we can't talk about attracting new investors. So when we make comparisons, as I said, and I do not like it, and I would like them to come out in a completely different way, to talk about ahead of the European Union, to talk about raising in the comparative rankings of European countries. This isn't happening. This does not happen because the economy and finances, honourable Members, cannot be managed only by false suggestions, simple, superficial and first-hand slogans. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u280	Thank you to Mr. Chobanov. You want a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chobanov, you are a financial expert with solid experience in this field. You were also a finance minister. I have a question for you. Answer me how you think that the proposals relating to an increase in the amount of pensions that are included in the budget update will affect financial policy and financial stability in terms of financial policy over the next two years. Just to remind Mr. Vassilev that the accusations that the governments of GERB have led a restrictive policy regarding pensioners do not respond to the reality because for years the GERB party has won elections, which means that Bulgarian citizens have trusted us with regard to the policy we are leading. [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Please don't replicate me from place to place. If you have anything to say, come here from this stands. All those untruths you're saying are not true. Please answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u282	I want to tell you that the line is an expression of dissent, not a question. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I didn't intend to speak because I'm not a financier and I can't get into the depths of all the speeches that have been said. Mrs. Zhekova, you said you won an election. One line to you because we are not at a debate on a budget and since you have asked how you are winning elections, ask a colleague of yours, known as the Semkata, how are the elections won in Haskovo Municipality? Mr. Chobanov, I feel like I'm in a lecture at the UNWE. They say that deeds are like sin. They can be forgiven, but they can't be forgotten. You are talking about planning, but when you were a minister in the government of Oresharski, who was taken down jointly by you with colleagues from GERB because of the actions of a former leader of BSP and because I participated in this parliament, do not pull me for the language, because it will become very explosive in this building. [[Noise and lines.]] We're debating the government. People told you what the arguments were. Okay, we're taking it off, by the way, because some people are looking down on me in this group, and I have people I respect very much. Honest people are also in GERB. You want to take it off. Okay, we're going to the election, but there's a group here that wants to outline the image of a political Frankenstein. They want elections because with their actions they disgust people and then there will be a lot less people in the elections, and in this room there will be a single dictatorship and rabid cynicism and populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u284	Thank you. Mr. Chobanov, the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Yes, we can also go back to this government, which has suffered its political responsibility, we have seen it, it has been overthrown. This is political responsibility, I agree with you, with the resignation that is being resigned, the government is leaving, elections are coming, and in these elections the sovereign decides what will happen. Regarding the issue of pensions. Yes, next year, the calculations show that an additional 3.7 billion is needed, and the following year 4.2 billion is needed. lv. What we want to see is how they will be reflected in the medium-term fiscal framework, which the Deputy Prime Minister has also tried to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u286	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. The Minister of Agriculture Mr. Ivan Ivanov asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u287	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! Personally, I am extremely pleased that the debate has returned within normality. The topic that we are discussing today and, accordingly, the consequences that the decisions taken today will have, and tomorrow, reflected in an action by the MPs. I am genuinely glad that the subjective element has gone back because, expressing it here in this House, is seriously questioning the presence of each Member of the National Assembly not only today, but also in the future, unfortunately. Because the last year, two in the National Assembly and the MPs represented in it, unfortunately, showed that this institution is increasingly losing its authority. I think that today and tomorrow are extremely important to show that parliamentaryism in Bulgaria exists and the MPs have their vision for the future of the state, respectively the responsibility to the Bulgarian citizens in an extremely difficult situation. When you vote, honourable Members, for the vote of mistrust tomorrow, today are the debates, keep in mind what is at stake and what are the consequences in both cases. Because of the judgment that you will make depends largely on the authority of this institution, whether it will be a total oron, or in any way will be given a breath of breath, because others are waiting to say: "The National Assembly is no longer needed and you are no longer needed! " - Because what has been shown here today in this Chamber, leads to this thought, unfortunately. Bulgarian citizens are watching and are certainly not happy with what they saw here today. We have two hypotheses. If the MPs vote for tomorrow, the majority, for this vote of distrust and the government is overthrown, those who vote for will have on their shoulders the burden of throwing their country into a new spiral of elections and chaos, which will lead to unclear results and uncertain futures. Because if anyone is fooled that there will be a majority in a next parliament that will form governance and maintain policies that will lead the country out of this situation, which is the result of the war across Europe and around the world, it has gone wrong. Deprive Bulgarian citizens of security and clarity about the future of Bulgaria is completely irresponsible, honourable ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly. The war in Ukraine is still ongoing and it is not known how long it will last, and what will be the consequences, honourable MPs from GERB. Because today I felt a strange symbiosis, although you claim that it is not so, between the motives that you brought in and the handing out of the ball, and therefore perhaps the reading of colleagues from the DPS was quite literal of what you wrote. I see that my colleagues from "There is such a people" too. And here to claim that there is no understanding, I think it's, to put it mildly, incomprehensible to us. But it's good to rethink, tonight is important. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] It is clear to all of us that early elections mean blocking the work of the executive and legislative authorities and practically blocking the whole state at a time when important legislative decisions must be taken, such as the adoption of the budget and a number of laws relating to the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, with the Strategic Plan for the Development of Agriculture for the next five years, are linked. There's no one to take them to a non-working parliament. These funds rely on our mothers, our children, our grandmothers, our parents all Bulgarian citizens who expect from parliament and from government from a state to take care of them. Those who vote against the vote of mistrust will certainly ensure the stability of the state and we can all, together, have the chance here, within this Parliament, to work for a better life for our people, for the future of our parents and our children. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] You might find that funny. I'll tell you funnier things, Mrs. Atanasova, you'll hear. In particular, the Ministry of Agriculture for six months, I think we've managed to achieve a great deal. As a result, the funds that Bulgarian farmers will receive this year and have received are unprecedented, because this government is the first to give such funds to Bulgarian farmers in such a crisis. Even in the form of the crisis, the government ruled by GERB did not give this help to the Bulgarian farmer when he needed it. The funds will be distributed and distributed not only in a transparent but also in a fairer way for farmers. From December until now, we have completed and submitted Bulgaria's Strategic Plan on the Common Agricultural Policy for the period 2023, 2027, which will provide our country with 16 billion for the next programming period, provided that it has been loosened, working for three years, without clear vision and direction. Within two months we were able to bring this thing into shape and bring it in. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. They were paid under the State Payments Scheme, 317 million. lv. paid under State aid schemes, plus 143.5 million per species of the measure and nearly 30 million per de minimis. Unprecedented funds for this government, which had failed in its economic and fiscal policies. Never before! The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. are paid to beneficiaries of the Maritime and Fisheries Programme. Nearly 400 million. lv. are paid to beneficiaries under the Rural Development Programme. In the implementation of the Coalition Agreement commitment to greater transparency and efficiency in the sale and of firewood for the local population 43 warehouses across the country are being opened and are about to become 56. And this government policy has increased interest in buying wood from the local population, with requests this year being double because we supply at a better price to compensate for the increased costs of energy carriers. A number of bills have been drawn up: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, Draft Act on Veterinary Treatment, Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Feed and so on. What have we found in the Ministry and which you seek with this vote, because if the vote passes, we return to this? We've found 100 million. lv. In irrigation systems concluded contracts without guaranteed funding, with the option of obtaining European funds for 107 million. BGN, where contracts signed as penal decrees for irrigation systems with a guaranteed 25% financial correction with an option for 100, which would lead to 100% bankruptcy of irrigation systems. 100%! Concessed Bulgarian Food Safety Agency at 100% in all its activities as private contractors. At the moment, a large part of the checks prove that this is of an entirely criminal nature. Is this what we want to happen in Bulgarian agriculture in the coming years? Because we're changing that approach. We have a clear idea of how to continue our work from now on. The trust that I expect the MPs to vote tomorrow will cover goals that we must fulfil by the end of the year, and everyone who manages this sector must fulfil. But unfortunately, in the case of a non-working parliament this will not happen and will suffer not the government, will suffer the Bulgarian citizens, the Bulgarian farmers, because the help given now and will be given in the coming months, of course, if there is a government of the state will also be in the aid of consumers. Because thanks to these funds we are investing, and they are aimed at despite the bad you say, financial and economic policy, it is currently leading to a reduction in food prices and the release of these funds. [[Heckling]] Statistics read, dear, statistics. Go to the market. They can carry you home with a basket, you don't know what it's like on the market, people buying and pensioners buying. What do we have to do? Application of exceptional aid to adapt farmers of the agricultural sector of 10,6 million EUR with the possibility of 200% state co-financing, which has already been added. With great effort and insistence within the Agriculture and Fisheries Council, we have found allies among the member states and in July a European regulation is expected to be amended in order to grant up to 5% of the Rural Development Programme for 2021 and 2022 for direct support to farmers, such as the implementation of crisis measures for the war in Ukraine. With one instrument, the funds will be 32 million. EUR on the other instrument will be 33 million. Euros. Temporary framework of the European Commission for State aid in crisis support for the economy of up to 35 thousand. EUR per farm. The total amount of aid under the Temporary Framework is 150 million, which is set out in the budget update, which depends again on your vote, because taking down confidence by the government means, in general, calls into question the policies that are laid down in this budget. Additional funding is provided for the welfare of pigs and birds of the amount of 18,7 million. lv. This again depends on the forthcoming update of the state budget. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. lv. Aid in the form of a discount on the value of excise duty on gas oil used in primary agricultural production per year of up to 100 million. lv. Preparation of the necessary legislative changes in relation to the implementation of the Strategic Plan, more of which concern the development of Bulgarian agriculture in the next five years. Aren't laws adopted? Laws for industry organizations in the agricultural sector, Law on ownership and use of agricultural land, amendments to the Law on support for farmers, which should happen after September, or in September, when the government falls, there will be no working parliament, there will be no one to pass these laws, Bulgarian farmers from 1 January 2023 will not receive funds because the new operational programme will simply not work. This will be fatal for Bulgarian agriculture, for the Bulgarian consumer. I strongly stress that without political stability and adequate response, as I said, this strategic plan and the funds in it are at stake. All this and many more policies that we have set out to implement in the future will not happen if you vote in favour of the vote of mistrust, honourable ladies and gentlemen of parliament. I hope you realize what you're doing right now and what you're going to do tomorrow. And I turn to my colleagues at the age because I've seen, I have an office of theirs, I read the slogans. What you will do tomorrow, if you vote for the vote of no confidence, will be in complete opposition to what you say. I call on everyone to be reasonable and make a national responsible decision. And in conclusion, I would like to remind again that all Bulgarian citizens are watching us from this House, and our behaviour here and tomorrow will be indicative as an assessment for each of the political forces. Each one of the Bulgarian citizens expects us to show that we are responsible to them. Every Bulgarian citizen will watch the vote tomorrow, which will have measured who is really fighting for the change of this model, which for 12 years managed the state and led to breakdown of the people on the street two years ago, and who will choose its return or the future of Bulgaria in Europe. We have made a great effort to launch a different and new future for our country, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Do not underestimate the young, but think of our parents, because I do not accept your arguments that pensions should not be revalued and that they are not important. [[Heckling]] Now is the time to say again to the MPs of the "There is such a people" and to prove to those who trusted them why they chose to participate in the management of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from the Council of Ministers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u288	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Please, you have the floor. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] After every minister's attitude?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u290	You can't... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Every day we hear the opposition say that our government is failing. I don't agree with them. So I'm going to use my minutes to remind you of some of the government's successes, and I'm going to start from January, when we have a wave of omicron. And do you remember what was different about this wave? The difference was that there was no lockdown and we didn't sit at home, and our economy didn't stop. That's because he ran Mr. Petkov with his government and they made us go through this crisis without a problem. Let's also talk about the gas one of the undisputed successes of this government. When Mr. Petkov and the government swore, Bulgaria was completely and completely dependent on a single gas supplier, and it was a company Russia used to pass its foreign policy. And that's what we got ourselves into because Gazprom stopped our gas. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]] Because we all know and remember that Gazprom unilaterally violated the Treaty and made sure that Bulgaria did not have gas. Only that wasn't a problem because Mr. Petkov is in power with his government. And do you remember that gas connection that couldn't happen for ten years? Well, now it's happened in six months, and it's already a fact, and it's leaking azeri gas. [[Shouting from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] And for that we have to thank Mr. Petkov and his government. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Let's say inflation, because the two topics are related. Yeah, inflation like this hasn't been seen since 2008. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] What did the government do? Find all the money you need to help all the people who need, all the people who can't handle the prices. And now they're accusing us of spending a lot. The spending isn't the problem with the budget. The problem with the budget was that if you didn't steal, there was money for everyone, and that secret had to be kept. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Let's talk about how we sit internationally. I can assure you that Bulgaria has never sat so well internationally, especially in the European Union, and this is seen on the so-called French proposal, which is actually a proposal of the European Union, because the better international image of Bulgaria has made it possible for the European Union to stand behind us. For the first time he took a country in bilateral disputes and said to Macedonia: yes, we will accept you, but first fulfill all the conditions of Bulgaria. And I must now believe Mr. Trifonov that Mr. Petkov is a traitor. Well, no, it's not! This is another success of this government. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and the ministers.]] And let's talk about Captain Andreevo. Turns out, for ten years, a private firm controlled our border. Turns out all the trucks went through a hall with no cameras. Imagine for ten years how many things have gone through this room undetected. Imagine for ten years what junk we've been eating, how many rotten fruits and vegetables full of pesticides and whatnot. Well, that's not true anymore, because since May the state has taken control of Captain Andreevo and now at 5,000 leva. travel to the state budget, and now we eat more quality fruits and vegetables. And most importantly, now nothing passes from there unnoticed. And behind this success, my colleagues in particular pay with their safety, because now they go with guards. I can talk more, but the truth is none of these things is the government's greatest success. The greatest success of Mr. Petkov and his government is that they brought hope back into the people! They made the young people think about Bulgaria and want to sit here! They made the traffic through Terminal 2 stop! And here's the real change, and so I personally thank them. And for the finale I will say something to the experienced politicians, especially the more experienced ones who are in the room and those who are not. I know we're weird because we're not like you. We are the children of the transition. We and many others grew up in the mud that you created! We were learning and developing on our own in the right way without relationships, without anyone setting us up! And now we're here in Parliament. We're here and we won't let you do to our children what you did to us! We're here, and we don't want your schematics or your deals. We are here because we have hope and we believe in the future and we will fight. We're here, get used to it, because we're not going anywhere. Thank you. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and long applause by "We continue the Change" and the ministers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u292	Is there a line to the speaker? I can't see. Minister Lorre asked for the floor. [[Reply from Desislava Atanasova.]] On what grounds do I give you the floor, Mrs. Atanasova? Read it carefully because I've read it. You have no grounds, please. I'm not going into dialogue. Mr. Minister, are you taking the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u293	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With regard to the economic model of DPS since 2007 I would not like to comment. With regard to their economic model after 2007, also known as the "Magnitski" model, I also think I should refrain from commenting. What we want to account for these six months is primarily why we do what we do. The Ministry of Innovation and Growth was created so that we can stimulate the economic growth and competitiveness of the Bulgarian business. Yes, we know our legacy from our colleagues on the right side for 12 years is a lasting last place in Europe, as Eurostat tells us we are the last to last forever in Europe for 2021. This is what sent many of our children, many of our elderly parents abroad, 2 million, so missing. In order to change this sad situation in Bulgaria, we need an extremely large amount of work - not six months, as you are trying to take responsibility for us why we cannot fix 12 years in six months - not six years - will probably be more necessary, but we are convinced and ready to do so. In these months, as we promised, we focused on attracting investments that are innovative and not only so that there is added value for our economy, such as the Medical Robots Factory near Plovdiv, all these science-fiction robots that you know are being done there. But you know, if you've ever seen investors lately, what they tell us when they come on a date with us. Investors tell us something simple: we did not trust the Bulgarian state. We didn't trust your institutions! We don't know what they mean. We don't know what they're going to ask us if they'll give us permission, how much this permission will cost us, how many times we'll pay this permission. That's the worst thing. When there is no confidence in the institutions of a country, business does not go well, investment does not go well. They don't happen the way they really should happen by international standards, so we're the last in all the rankings. What we have done specifically in these six months to begin to reverse this sad statistic. The development bank. Radically we said: not many million loans for expensive companies. This is over. The Bulgarian Development Bank and its renewed management focus on small and medium business in Bulgaria. It's her mission, put in place by the legislator, and that's the mission she's going to be carrying out. By the way, the bank is already at a profit of 19 million. euros and will probably be the first bank in Bulgaria to introduce fully digital lending to the business. The operational programs you were worried about could we put them into action because we're inexperienced. According to operational programs already 1000 companies have applied for energy efficiency over 100 million. a programme that will soon be infused as a new resource in the Bulgarian economy. The Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Another thesis you won't make, you won't finalize it. We finalized it with the personal support of Mrs Ursula von der Lyon, who came here to say that we did a good job. This plan begins with the technological modernisation programme "Another 260 million." BGN, which Bulgarian companies will be able to have better machines. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] July month. All nearby companies will be able to apply to you and all other Bulgarian companies on a total basis of the... 260 million. EUR more efficient machines, more productivity, lower electricity bills and so on. 30 million. cybersecurity is coming up, 200 million. for renewable energy sources for companies. All this is coming in the coming months under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. The starters. There were complaints about what was going on with the starters. We have the first Bulgarian unicorn. This is a fundamental change in our economy. We have 170 start-ups funded by the Fund Fund. We've got close to 100 million, 100 million. A guarantee instrument to commercial banks, which will in turn create a 250 million loan portfolio. Once again for the Bulgarian business loans without collateral. That's all over in the last six months. Don't let me repeat the numbers we said again. Four percent growth in Bulgaria's recent history. It's a record export. It's a record of industrial activity in our country. What I want to go on with. In order to continue all these positive directions to happen, it is necessary that this institution continue to work. There needs to be stability! There needs to be legislative activity! By the way, another thesis that we do not have legislative activity. Despite the parliament's resistance, despite the complex quadruple coalition we are running, the new trading company has already been introduced into parliament. The new start-up visa has already been entered into parliament. Changes in the Investment Promotion Act are forthcoming, changes in the Law on Research and Innovation "All important things" so that the Bulgarian economy can develop even faster, as you say your goal is. The most important reason why this institution should continue to work and why new elections are a very bad idea for the Bulgarian economy is the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Thirteen billion that can be invested in the Bulgarian economy if 23 legislative reforms are adopted on a schedule by the National Assembly. No National Assembly, no legislative changes, no 13 billion. in the Bulgarian economy it is so simple. From today's discussion one thing has become clear: the economic motives against this government are, to say the least, untenable. What are the real motives? The only motive I can guess is fear. Fear of change. Fear that the rule of law will finally become here! Fear that these children and the children of these children will stay here! Fear that there will be higher salaries, higher standard of living, that racketeering will stop, corruption will stop! Fear that the funds from European programmes will not go to our companies, but will go to all the companies that can receive them. By the way, a good initiative, which I neglected to mention: our operational programme, together with the Ministry of Interior and the DANS, has a new agreement where it will be monitored in real time by all law enforcement institutions, so that events such as the stone-breaking machines of euro programmes, which we have the most per capita of why, to cease. They are already the task of the European Prosecutor's Office. And I turn to those of you who will be here tomorrow, fear is a bad counselor. Fear is an extremely bad advisor when you have to explain to your constituents why you are immersing the state into economic chaos. Listen to your conscience and make the right choice! Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and the ministers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u294	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Cholakov, I'm announcing a 20-minute recess and then you'll ask for your word. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u295	Colleagues, let's resume the meeting. Mr. Cholakov, you wanted the floor. [[Replications of MP Radomir Cholakov.]] You can't take any part in the Minister's speech. 59, para. Two of the subs, that's where it says. [[Heckling]] You have time to speak, take the floor. Does it matter? [[Heckling]] Either way, this whole thing is going through time. Mrs. Belobradova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u296	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers! It has already been noted several times that the motion for a vote of no confidence, as it was built, is formal. The real reason is the restoration of corruption practices and yet another election that citizens do not want and voters do not want the ones that have sent us here. But the most important question is: what happens in elections? There is no government on a regular basis, there is no parliament at this important time, there is no legislative process. Many ministers have already spoken about what bills are actually prepared. We from the coalition government have over 50 draft bills, some of which have already been submitted. I would also ask the other ministers how many bills have already been prepared or are in the process of preparing. These are the number of bills that will sink into timelessness, for which work groups and months of real work are separated. Because this requires a quality legislative process time. Only the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence was working for over 4 months with experts, judges and civil society organizations. And, yes, the preparation of good legislation requires expert work and consultation, even with the opposition. It's a perfectly normal process. Where's all this gonna go? In the timeless time of another caretaker government, which will apologize for being official and for not having a parliament. Today is a step towards killing parliamentaryism, and I will not participate in it. For me, as a MP, this is the most serious and true problem and the real reason for the vote. Thank you. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u297	- What's the line? Mr. Mitev has a line. Are you giving up? It's like the variable current. [[Radio.]] I give the floor to Minister Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Members, Ministers! I carefully reviewed the draft decision for voting mistrust of the Council of Ministers with Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, submitted by the group of GERB-SDS and the reasons for it. Without questioning the right of every MP and every parliamentary group to make policies, including by submitting a vote of mistrust to the current government, I will share some of my views on the issue in the context of the current situation. To the opposition, it must be very clear that in the coming days, weeks and months, important challenges that stand before Bulgaria and the Bulgarian society and they are of the competence must be solved only by a regular government and by a functioning National Assembly. Despite the suggestions and messages of the opposition, the elections are extreme and are not quite an acceptable option. It is only right for the opposition, if it is responsible and constructive and not selfless and uninterested for the Bulgarians, to think that if it continues to block the work of the National Assembly and the institutions, the elections will prove to be, albeit unacceptable, inevitable and only possible option. People wait for something to happen, not to go three times a year to elections. Today, in so many debates, unfortunately, I did not see responsible behaviour from the opposition. I am referring to the newly formed majority of GERB, SDS, DPS, Revival and the remnants of Acting responsible is both party duty and personal responsibility. At least that's what you expect. I can say that the debate, and the idea of the vote itself, was aimed at a decision and for the benefit and interest of the people. It seems to me that everything is aimed at ending the battle that this government is fighting with the mafia and with the octopus of corruption. The bad news is that's not gonna happen. The Bulgarians will not allow it. With this vote of distrust GERB will not achieve the good strategic perspectives and overcome the isolation in which it fell after falling out of power after 12 years of corruption and theft and after the state has broken down, it will not secure peace from the persecution for the 12 years of criminal government. There's no one else to tolerate this pointless stealing and hoarding of money from certain people in bank accounts, in offshores, in drawers, at home in Barcelona, at home for guests and everywhere. It became clear to the Bulgarians that now and in the future GERB can rely only on DPS and Revival, regardless of whether it will try to make a new government in this National Assembly, or will fight for power after early elections. But after ruling in the last term in a coalition with the United Patriarchs, looking for DPS' support for a next coalition, it seems a little ridiculous. It's a little ridiculous to replace the United Patriarchs with rebirth. History has given this government to work in times of restlessness, a post-covid crisis, war, inflation. All this slows the recovery of Europe and the world because of the higher prices of raw materials and energy carriers, which, despite these upheavals and trade problems, have a negative impact on economic activity and are hitting people's real incomes. All countries reduce their growth forecasts and increase their inflation forecast. It all says that the war will be much longer than the biggest skeptics thought. This means difficulties in the supply chain and serious price pressure and inflation. Our country faces complex and unprecedented challenges. All over the world this is seen, only in Bulgaria the opposition claims that by bringing down this government and coming to power, it will fix inflation, the state and everything will be fine. Apparently, colleagues from GERB rely on the short memory of the people. The bad news for you, colleagues, is that the people have not forgotten, so they are again in the squares. You can't fool him! However, the government faces complex challenges. It dealt not badly with the problems inherited from GERB: corruption, theft, the convergence of the executive and the judiciary and so on, not to list them, and enviablely dealt with the problems brought out. In no statement have I heard a clear message of an alternative to the current government, only talk, populism and small talk. I do not intend to dwell long and wide on what we have achieved, but in a vote of mistrust I have no way of not reminding people, the Bulgarians of some things in the social sphere. First of all, we dealt with the bomb placed in the pension system of the forty-sixth National Assembly on a proposal from the DPS and GERB. We didn't leave a single pensioner after New Year with a lower pension after the dropout of the populist coat supplement of 120 BGN. The DPS bomb and GERB didn't go off! We have provided funds for a substantial increase in pensions by an average of 12.8% from 25 December 2021 and we have continued the payment of the quota of 60 BGN. We raised the amount of social pension for old age of BGN 148. At 170 leva. The increase is 14.32 percent. This led to an increase in pensions that are not related to employment, as by law their size is determined according to the social pension for old age. In addition, we raised the attitude of disability pensions to social welfare. So: 2 million. 38,000. pensioners saw that unlike the management of GERB this government has thought about them and lived a little more peacefully. Secondly, we have prepared a good budget, which everyone, including our biggest critics, analysts, economists and politicians, called social and calculated that 20% of the entire budget are for social expenses and payments and only for the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 were allocated 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes That is, an increase of 349 million. lv. Compared to 2021, 90% of them are for social costs, benefits and social assistance and support under the Law on Persons with Disabilities, under the Law on Personal Aid, under the Law on Family Aid for Children, under the Law on Child Protection, under the Law on Social Assistance, including targeted heating aid under the Act on Veterans, under the Law on Military Disabilities and Military Victims. The amount of funds provided for support for disabled people was increased by 39,8% or more than 280 million. lv. for the funds foreseen for 2021, the active labour market policy has an increased financial resource of 50 million. lv. and on the national employment action plan for 2022 by 123 million lv. more than 22 thousand unemployed will be employed and more than 11 000 unemployed will be trained in different professions. In less than 4 months we realized what the Bulgarians fought for more than 10 years at GERB. The minimum wage increased from 650 to 710 BGN, by 9.23%. Over 350 thousand Bulgarians working on a minimum wage lived a little more peacefully. Motherhood increased for raising a child in the second year, and it significantly increased from 380 BGN. at GERB on 710 BGN, became equal to the minimum wage. This is an increase of 87%, which allowed 70 - 80 - thousand mothers to live more peacefully. The minimum daily amount of the money unemployment allowance increased from 12 to 18 BGN, the maximum amount from 75 to 86 BGN. Thus the amounts of payments of over 40,000 persons per month increase and they live a little more calm while looking for work. Children's allowances increased by 25%, increased access to them. Over 80,000 parents of children will receive more. Finally, the idea of free kindergartens and cribs is a fact. The government has granted additional funding for school buses in remote and small settlements so that every child can have access to education. The scholarships for the gifted children increased. We are fighting the demographic crisis with real measures for young people and children. And with the refugee wave from Ukraine, we did a perfect job, including the one developed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Programme.............. in their support for more than 15,000 people so that they can start work easier. The Human Resources Development Programme is following a two-year delay in the European Commission for approval within a week. It is also important what Bulgarians can expect in the near future by the end of the year, of course, if reason prevails and overcomes the vote of mistrust. But before I go any further on, I'm going to ask: do you want a vote of distrust about the fact that people get paid up in the social sphere and give them some serenity? And now, from now on, a large step is envisaged to increase the retained pensions for years, and without change in terms of the size of compulsory social security contributions and the distribution between insurance contributions between insurers and insured persons. The pensions for the work will increase by 10%, then an increase in the amount of the pension will be included and the amount of 60 leva, which was so far for a kind of supplement. Thus, on the one hand, the individual contribution of persons is taken into account and, on the other hand, the reduction of the total income of pensioners is not allowed. The minimum amount of the pension for internship and age is increased from 370 to 467 BGN. - 26.2% increase. The maximum amount of the pensions received is increased from 1500 to 2000 BGN, 33,3% increase. Funds are provided to increase the amount of social pension for old age from 170 to 247 BGN, an increase of 45.3%, which will lead to an increase in the size of social pension for disability and other pensions related to non-employment. As a result of the changes from 1 July 2022 the average pension of a pensioner will increase to 666 BGN. in July 2022, which is an increase of 23.2% to its level in June 2022. From 1 October, employment pensions will be calculated by increasing by a percentage for each calendar year following the year in which the pension is granted, equal to the higher percentage of the increase in the national average social security income or the annual average consumer price index for the previous year. From 1 October 2022, the maximum amount of one or more pensions received shall be increased from 2000 to 3400 BGN. As a result of the changes from 1 October 2022 in October 2022, the average pension per pensioner is expected to reach 718 BGN, or to grow by 7.8 per cent compared to July 2022. Compared to July 2022, an increase of 32.9 per cent is expected. A new mechanism for financing and providing assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices has been developed for the long-awaited by people with disabilities. I will mention the increased tax discount from 4000 to 6000 BGN. on an annual basis for each child of working parents and that this discount is possible to be taken up in advance every quarter. If the child is disabled, the discount becomes over 12 thousand. lv. I will also mention the zero VAT rate of the bread, the duty-free discount of 25 cents per litre of fuel for all Bulgarians. And then there's this whole anti-crisis thing. I won't mention business. So, as so far as we are concerned, good things can happen to Bulgarians in spite of the crisis. So it's clear from everywhere that it's not a very promising idea to take down an office to come to power and establish it more unstable. This is a vote after which, of course, the world will not end, Bulgaria will not disappear, but the likelihood of a serious political, financial and economic crisis is ever more likely. Dear Members of Parliament, you have 24 hours to think about your choice: stability or chaos! And to remind again: acting responsible is both party duty and personal responsibility. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u299	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dr. Hassan Ademov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I always thought today's discussion was about the vote of no confidence in the government with Prime Minister Cyril Petkov. It turned out, however, that instead of discussing the policies that are set out in this vote, in the motives of the vote, we are watching today a calendar of the successes presented by the Council of Ministers. Instead of a discussion to lead the MPs on the proposed motives, it turned out that the cabinet ministers were the ones leading the discussion. It is obvious that within the Council of Ministers this dialogue is not being held and they have now decided that this dialogue should be held here in plenary. Some of my colleagues say that the vote of no confidence in the government is a democratic procedure, by the way, that is what the Constitution says. Other colleagues say this is an extreme form of dialogue between government and opposition. It turns out that even in today's meeting, dialogue is difficult because, on the one hand, you saw a calendar of success, on the other hand, we are trying, within the limited time to present our motives, because here we are talking or talking about pensions, that a bomb has been planted. I can tell you that with what you're offering with the state social security budget for this year, you're setting a new bomb. However, with great regret, I must tell you that the bomb squad is not in your parliamentary group and in the Council of Ministers. What the opposition tells you, I can express it now with a few numbers. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, it is a lie that the opposition opposes the increase in pensions. Another point is that we disagree with the methodology proposed by the Council of Ministers. We have the right to make our proposals and we have already made them, so don't make us agree to what you're proposing, because what you're proposing is a time bomb, and I'll tell you why. Because the unprecedented 8 billion and 200 million are already a deficit in the state social security budget, I repeat, 8 billion and 200 million. Can these 8 billion and 200 million be used for other healthcare policies, for education and for which you will policy, for social policy can they be? Of course they can. Then where is your pension system reform that you promised at the beginning? After six months you had to based on an analysis based on working groups and so on to propose a new pension model. No model, no system, no analysis, no suggestion on how to spend 1 billion and 400 million. And now I tell you this, honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, repeatedly in your public appearances you repeat the same mantra you say there is no pension under the line of poverty. Do you want me to tell you that 83,000 pensions out of all just over two million pensions are below the poverty line if we rule out a species of additives?! If we include them, it's 318,000. Three hundred and eighteen pensioners you lie to them that they have pensions below the poverty line in your official statement. If you'd like to make a reference. This is official information from the Statistics. Next, what you are proposing in this budget now, you are betting it on the next budget without any changes, without updating any other measures, and you are proposing an increase of 3 billion and 700 million. I am not saying that the choice is between deficits, between more money for the pension system and the amount of pensions. I've never said anything like that, and I can't resist one of them. But what's important and it's no coincidence that you're offering us a three-year budget forecast, because if you offer it, you have to tell us where that money will come from. They can come in a number of ways, one way is, God willing to be this way, increasing growth, increasing incomes, increasing receipts at the National Insurance Institute, and naturally reducing these deficits. Given that now 46.5% of all the money in the pension system comes from taxes, what should we think? Is this system tax, is it insurance, or is it some kind of model that offers us the following hypothesis: the pensioner goes to the store, buys groceries, pays VAT and other indirect taxes, refinances the amount of his pension. This is a ridiculous situation, Prime Minister. Therefore, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will make our proposals not to blow up the system, as Minister Gokov just said. Dear Minister Gokov, you are a witness in this Chamber when the then Minister of Finance called us to the room here, I do not know which room, one of the parliamentary groups, and said: we accept your proposal. Let the Minister of Finance come and disprove this thesis. This is not the thesis of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, this is the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which has been adopted by the then Minister of Finance, so that you blame us, thank you, you have to deal with the factology. Next, I agree with your claim, Prime Minister, that playing with the pension system makes it difficult to win votes. That's true, and I'll give you a few examples. One example - 2008 during the Triple Coalition at the end of the mandate of the Triple Coalition, and here is Mr. Ananiev, and will tell you five steps to increase the amount of pensions, even those updated are 19.8%, which was divided into two. As a result, not those who proposed these measures, but GERB won the parliamentary elections. So it's hard to win votes with a pension system, and there's something that's missing right now. And one more thing, fellow Members. My request is that when we talk about a pension system, we be very careful because we create expectations. People want these expectations to be realized, people want these promises to be realized. Now look at what is offered in this budget. You claim that the long-standing promise of colleagues from Coalition BSP for Bulgaria is being implemented "recalculation of pensions." But what you're proposing is not a recalculation, and you can't fool any retired or expert. Because recalculation means a new insurance income, in this current insurance income, and what is currently offered is an increase by one factor, which is a choice between the increase in average social security income and inflation, something that applies only to 718 thousand out of 2.37 million pensioners. And what do we tell the others? Do you know how one voter will not tell which political party, ask the following question: very please, I hear on TV that 718 thousand will receive a recalculation, very please include me in this number. What do we tell these people that this is justice?! Yeah. I conclude by saying that we are about increasing pensions, but not in the way you propose. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u301	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. With all due respect, I would like to tell you that your entire speech was about social policy, which is not the subject of the vote. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Cholakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dr. Ademov just explained why the government's pension policy is harmful and dangerous. I will say two words about economic policy to be in the subject. I take occasion from the statements of Minister Laurer, who has decided who knows why, that he has done a very good job. He mentioned several times today that Bulgaria had the first unicorn and that the BBI had given money to 170 startups. I would like to say that the unicorn company in question was established in 2018, i.e. at the time of the GERB government raised money in 2018, 2019 and 2021 April, again during the GERB government, it became a unicorn thanks to everything you claim that no one has obviously interfered with them. The guys were working, they were making software, they were developing, and at the moment their value was $1 billion. This one billion is theirs, I pay attention to you, it's theirs, and the state has nothing to do with that money, and they're not gonna raise pensions. They've won them for their ha'al. 170 startups, which the Bulgarian Development Bank financed. However, colleagues, especially me, I am very concerned, and on this topic we have spoken with the caretaker government, which passionately told us how it will invest our money in startups. You know what a starter is, don't you? A very cool business idea that may or may not happen. According to statistics, 90% of startups went bankrupt in the third year, and according to one another, there are 98%. In other words, our money is invested in risk projects, our money, the state money, and the world's startups are financed by private risk funds and venture investment funds. No country puts money into such investments. These are rich people who are billionaires who are wondering what to do with their money and helping young boys to realize the idea. No country does that, where, colleagues, what does it get? The government is indebted to us by its actions. It raises inflation, and at the same time the money we make puts it into risky endeavors, which I'm starting to worry a lot that with this policy on both sides to raise costs and make risky investments, we'll get to the situation a few times I say it, where one day the bailiff will come and look for his struggles. Lameness of Bulgarians and Bulgaria will continue in this policy, and Bulgarians and Bulgaria will have to sell property. Do you understand what I'm saying? Once in 1996 the state went bankrupt just like that and had to sell property and you know the result and you know that we are still in pain. At the moment, the policy of this government to make risky investments, to raise costs insanely, to take credit will lead to the fact that one day we may have to sell again. I don't agree, okay? I don't agree, this has to stop, and we're still having this conversation. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u303	Are there any lines? I can't see. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u304	Dear Members of Parliament, just to be clear, because I don't think you understand what Minister Lorer said. 170 companies launched by the Fund Fund and 80 plus the loan is for small and medium-sized enterprises. Just to say that this whole amount is less than one loan to Wolf's lawyer, which the Bulgarian Development Bank gave to GERB's government. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u305	Thank you. Mrs. Serbenova, the Minister of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u306	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues! I believe that my speech is on the agenda because I listened very carefully to the people I respect and this is not the irony of Mr. Kiril Ananiev with the motives for the vote. Why do I think that? Because the vote of mistrust is on the whole government, although its own policies are set out in the motives, and in Mr. Ananiev's statement I wrote it down very carefully, and I can quote that it is about the policies of this cabinet at all, so I think I have reason to speak. From this highest tribune of statehood in Bulgaria, first of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Petkov and Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev for the trust and support I received as Minister of Health, because this is a topic that should be with a non-partisan consensus. In difficult times, especially the fifth wave of COVID-19, providing access to medical care and medicines for those fleeing the war in Ukraine and dealing with long-delayed problems in the sector, for which tired of expectations and unfulfilled promises in recent years a society seemed to expect quick solutions. I thank all my fellow ministers. It's been an honor to be part of this team! I would also like to thank the management team of the Ministry of Health, as well as the experts who work in the department and who I know are currently looking at us with excitement and fatigue from the lack of stability in the management of the health sector. Over the past six months, we have had to deal with problems that have been unsolved for years in the face of ongoing crises that have been stretched out on the cross of the excessive expectations of long overdue reforms and the bitterness of people and specialists in the sector as a result of existing imbalances in the system. To the sector we are all extremely sensitive and in a number of cases we are very critical because the policy in this field reflects on each and every one of us. Six months is a short period of time for long delayed reforms and for solving problems that have been deepened for years, but are also enough to lay the foundations for change. And now, from this tribune, I want to address not only the MPs who are about to vote on the vote, but especially the Bulgarian citizens who are watching us live, and those of them who will be watching us on tape, why should our government continue to work, why is this important for the people, what have we done for six months and what have we bet for the next six in the field of healthcare and this is actually an answer to Mrs. Belobradova, who turned with an appeal to the ministers? The first change we made in terms of dealing with another wave of COVID-19 and, as the prime minister said, we passed through it without announcing a national Lockdown, with optimal system load and without interruption at national level of attendance and educational process in classrooms. Although the emergency epidemic situation was canceled in April, we thought about a few months ahead, regardless of who will rule in September, namely that is the change. In April, the emergency epidemic situation was abolished and we prepared changes that the National Assembly approved, regulatory changes that allow for the introduction of anti-epidemic measures by the Minister of Health in case of necessity. My team, from its first day at the Ministry, took seriously the task of Bulgaria to finally have its national campaign, which was not at the beginning of the pandemic, for the benefits of vaccination. It took us two months and a little while against the backdrop of the missed two years. When it was launched, we were absolutely aware that people were tired and many of them, unfortunately, no longer trusted the institutions and authorities, including as a result of the policy pursued in recent years. The war came with which the interest of a large part of the media was understandablely redirected, but given what could happen to us in the fall, we did not give up, led by the primary care of protecting public health. A serious challenge for our country and not only for the health system as a whole was the refugee wave from Ukraine. As soon as possible, we organized and coordinated the sending of donations from medicinal products and medical devices to Ukraine, prepared guidelines to medical institutions, as well as the necessary legal changes to three laws. Electronic health care. For the past six months, in terms of digitalization of the sector, a huge slowdown has been caught up. We have been talking for years about how important this is for both patients and for all those working in the sector, why it is e-health that will bring the sector into the light and limit vicious practices. There is, of course, a lot of additional services to be introduced, the electronic introduction of all mandatory immunizations is forthcoming, and since 1 August the introduction of electronic hospitalization is planned, and trainings and tests of the system are currently under way. Electronic data will help us do objective analyses based on accurate science. Added value will also be the larger, released financial resource when unregulated practices are discontinued thanks to the advantages that digitalization gives us. This system will really help us forget about going from office to office with paper documents, as is currently happening to each and every one of us. Another priority to which we have focused our efforts is outpatient and hospital care. With regard to extra-hospital aid, we have agreed a record increase in funding by 31% against higher and wider prevention of patients, we have increased the number of studies by 77% to eliminate chronic shortage of directions. The payment by the National Health Insurance Fund of the general practitioners for the conduct of a profile review increased by 40% and the doctors specialists for the performed I would like to point out that a leading task for me as Minister of Health and my team is improving child and mother health. We increased the funding of clinical pathways and reviews in outpatient care for children and maternal health care, including obstetrics and gynecology, neonatology, children's clinical haematology, pediatrics and children's surgery. The funds for the care of a newborn child were increased by an average of 35% and for the preventive examinations of children by an average of 55%. Here I must also note the development of the process of building the National Children's Hospital, which we have been talking about for more than 15 years. We already have a contract to carry out a feasibility study on selected five construction sites. The contractor shall have a period of 30 days from 14 June 2022 to complete the work. After its completion, we will have a public discussion with all stakeholders on the construction of the children's hospital and possible terrains. In addition to this topic, I would like to share with you, honourable Members, that the Internal Audit Office in the Ministry of Health has carried out a check at the Health Investment Company for Children's Hospital, which covers the period of establishment of the company so far. A number of significant deficiencies in the company's work were identified during the verification and therefore the verification report was sent to the prosecution for follow-up. I would like to highlight just a few more important aspects of work over the past six months. The procedure for updating the National Health Card is under way, which will clearly outline the necessity and needs of the population of medical services in the country. You know that this is a topic that is very often discussed both in this House and in the Health Commission. A first working version of the National Cancer Plan has already been drawn up. We have also been focusing on two extremely important reforms for our sector, the one in the psychiatric aid for which a package of documents has already been drawn up to establish a National Board for Mental Health, which will implement the reforms and the one in the Emergency Aid. With regard to emergency aid reform. Training activities have already been carried out to provide air transport for emergency medical care. A public contract is under way to provide 42 high-profile ambulances, an analysis has been carried out to assess the values for the project's pre-financing of the emergency assistance, we have also found two emergency points to the CSM Sofia, for taking calls in the districts "Mladost" and "Lulyn." Another key reform for us, which Minister Gokov mentioned, which is under way, is the one for providing assistance, tools, facilities and medical devices intended for people with disabilities. From 1 July this function goes to the National Health Insurance Fund, and this is expected to ease the process. There has also been a comprehensive update of the legal basis to guarantee the rights of disabled people in this process. For the past six months, the Ministry of Health has provided a target of capital expenditure for public health institutions worth almost 30 million. lv. to improve the material and technical base, purchase of high-tech medical equipment and modern equipment. In parallel with this, from the management of medical institutions, which have poor financial results inherited for years, we have required healing plans. In two of these medical institutions, "Alexandrovska" and "Pirogov" are already appointed prosecutors, whose main task is to improve financial discipline and strengthen control in medical institutions. We have also strengthened the process of checking the companies whose principal is the Health Ministry. There's an interesting comparison here. In the last six months, the Inspectorate to the Minister of Health has carried out 64 checks. In comparison, for the entire 2021, the checks were 61, i.e. the Inspectorate to the Minister of Health worked at twice the speed. The same can be said of the Internal Audit Unit of the Minister of Health, which, for the six months in question, I repeat, carried out 71 checks and audit commitments in total. The results of these 16 inquiries have been sent to the prosecution and other investigative bodies. Last week, here in this room, we were called random passersby. I'm not a random passerby. I am invited by the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister and elected by you with the fragile majority of 30 votes for Minister of Health in the Office Petkov. I didn't come by here by chance, and I didn't meet the Prime Minister or the Deputy Prime Minister by accident. I was chosen for my professional qualities and my value system. Behind my professional achievements are not accidents, but labor and love of the profession, perseverance and teamwork. I also have administrative experience with some of you I've worked with, and it's not random. I entered the executive after a tax check as a natural person who found full compliance of my expenses and income after a check that lasted a year. And the result of this examination is not accidental, but due to respect and compliance with applicable legislation and life according to a certain value system, which, I understand, for a large part of the people in power is impractical and outdated, but part of this outdated value system is the provision of a value system and here comes Mrs. Belobradova's reply. In the next six months important activities in the sector are to be carried out. The upgrade of the National Health Information System is envisaged; a system for monitoring and control in the sector is planned to be put in place; reforms are envisaged in the drug policy to ensure faster access of Bulgarian citizens to medicinal products, reform of Emergency and psychiatric assistance; the preparation of a number of strategic documents is under way, such as the National Health Strategy for the period up to 2030, the National Health Card, the National Strategy for Geriatric Care (National Strategy) so far does not exist, and dozens more documents that I will not list because I value your time. However, the preparation and adoption of the National Health Strategy and the National Long-term Needs Card of the sector is of the highest priority, as they are unlocking conditions for providing access to European funding for the needs of the health system. According to the timetable established by the European Commission, dear MPs and Bulgarian citizens, the deadline for implementation is 30 September 2022. As you can see, we are chasing short deadlines. It is important to have the will to continue. Otherwise we will again suffer and suffer all of us who have fallen victim to foreign interests and struggle for the dominance of ego and the game of thrones. There is nothing more important and so desperately in need of a non-party consensus and stability in the protection of human life. And because that is the case, this leadership will provide continuity and provide the necessary information to save time, a privilege that has been denied to me and most of the health ministers. And such behaviour and attitude, I also believe, is part of the change that we bring and which is necessary in order to have sustainable and long-term successes. If we fall into the hypothesis of early parliamentary elections in the absence of an active National Assembly, Bulgaria faces the serious threat of losing money in a small amount [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] , provided under the National Plan: for modernization of hospital care facilities s 418 million 953 thousand; for building endovascular treatment centres on you depends on whether we will lose 128 million 537 thousand; for modernization and development of psychic aid which has not been updated for tens of years; for building an emergency air medical care system at 119 million; for building a national digital diagnostic platform at 28 million; for improving the National System; also for emergency calls 112 55 million 984 thousand; for developing outpatient care over 84 million. That's why I said we should have a non-party consensus. It is time for health care to be protected from vicious practices, short-term measures and lack of vision, to be health care in the light, managed effectively, at the centre of which the patient and his family are supported in efforts to protect health and deal with diseases by medical professionals who are motivated and working in a team, and by politicians who are able to outperform their personal interests. God save Bulgaria, as well as those who love and cherish it! To all those present in the hall, I wish to be here again and stronger, guided by the national interest and well-being of the ordinary Bulgarian. I'll pray for the rest of you too! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u307	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Dobrev, then Mr. Tsoncho Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u308	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! That doesn't look like shit! [[Applause and laughter by GERB-SDS.]] In principle, in the plenary of the National Assembly, ministers speak when there is parliamentary control, that is, they must answer questions that interest the Members of the National Assembly. We must control the ministers when they do their work. You have today turned today's meeting into some kind of advertising campaign by the ministers. Well, they can, by the same logic, if they want to brag, have a party meeting and brag all they want. Well, we heard Minister Serbenova pass the tax check. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Well, I passed a tax check, too, and I was being vetted, Mrs. Serbenova, and my mine check ended my audit, it's okay. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] But I don't come out of this tribune to brag. Fifteen minutes you've been bothering us with everything, and besides, this vote is about the economic and financial policies of the government. What does your health policy and your tax audit have to do with this? Well, by that logic, if the Minister of Culture could come out and explain him to me about the theatres. [[Noise and lines.]] So you started one by one, well, give it till 12:00. By 24:00 P.M., maybe that's the goal, all the ministers have a nice one right here to brag. However, if you could all explain your tax revisions. Thank you. [[Applause and laughter by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u309	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Tsoncho Ganev for procedure. Colleagues, perhaps if we were debating the title of the draft decision, we could have had about ten hours, too, as we once debated a title about one other bill, but this is another subject. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u310	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is entirely directed at you. We are at an extremely important moment in all parliamentaryism right now, and we want the government's resignation and debate on the resignation in question is going on, and it is normal for the opposition to ask for the government's resignation. In this situation in the morning you were standing up and you had to determine how we would work. Either we are debating only economic policy, what the vote of no confidence has been tabled for, ministers who are related only to the economic side of the vote of no confidence, or, as is the case, there is nothing wrong with a no-confidence vote to stand up to all ministers. There's nothing wrong with me. But when they talk, now that the Minister of Health is talking, we must have the right to be treated. How do we get up and take 13 minutes in total time and talk about each of the sectoral policies that all the ministers are talking about here? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] How exactly do I do that? And that's a reason...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u311	Well, you're not getting up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u312	No, Mrs. Serbenova, we need to get up and talk. You are elected by Parliament and we have the right to speak! In the way in which the National Assembly took place today, the opposition, in the face of the National Assembly, in a more precise way, I do not want and do not care about GERB and DPS, we were deprived of this right. By 13 minutes, which one and which one do we respond to? You, the social minister, the economic minister, the finance minister, the prime minister? That's why, Mr. Chairman, you have the procedure. What's happening is, to put it mildly, ugly, and you've made the wrong decision. I understand you probably took it on a coalition council...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u313	There are rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u314	...but the way this whole day has developed, it's gonna take a long time, we can't get up and argue. What time am I supposed to talk to Mrs. Serbenova about the green certificate policy and get to the point where we had to go to protest because we came almost to mandatory vaccination? How, exactly? There is no way, we have no time and we follow the rules, and it is rules that you have defined and said: no opinions will be taken, because after each speech of the Minister we must continue for two days. A vote of mistrust, if it takes all week, we will continue, and you will be pleased to be able to buy more MPs. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u315	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Gadget, you? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u316	Just tell me how much time the group has left.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u317	About ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u318	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues! Please read Section II "Vote of distrust and vote of confidence" there it is explicitly claimed that a vote of distrust or a vote of confidence is sought on the overall policy of the government or on a particular occasion. Tell me now in the draft decision that we are debating and in the reasons for where it is written........................................................................................ Undoubtedly, the theme of the mental health of Bulgarian citizens is important, but where in the motives does it say? It is also the topic of social policy. We discussed a four-hour budget if you refer, the speeches by the MPs from all parliamentary groups are less than by two ministers. If we are going to make a clear election meeting of the Council of Ministers, please at least present some list of ministers speaking, because I want to hear the Minister of Culture, I want to hear the Defense, the Ministry of Interior, of course, Regional Development and so let's take it to everyone. Unfortunately, I wish for a quick recovery of Minister Sandov, because we would have heard if it would rain outside, as it is the principal of the NIMH.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u319	Maybe something else would have told us.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u320	So, at least, Mr President, or give the right to attitude after any minister who does not speak on the subject of the vote, which is in both the budget and the economic and financial situation of the state, because if we talk about all the other topics, it would logically be possible for all MPs to participate in them. Colleagues who have spoken so far, to be honest, I think that from "We continue the Change" you have spoken 12 minutes less than Minister Serbezova has just spoken. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u321	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Guys, are there any other speeches? Hristo Ivanov, come in, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I will not dwell on the focus of the vote, which is economic policy, because my colleague Panev gave our arguments on this topic this morning, but the vote of confidence or distrust of a cabinet is a central political issue as such. From this point of view, let me say a few words about our motives of the Democratic Bulgaria to confirm our support for the Petkov cabinet, what are our political motives for this. Our first political motive is that people I learned from in politics have taught me when you change things, you need to know what comes next. We do not see absolutely no political perspective that follows this vote, as what follows after the overthrow of this cabinet? I would also like to say what is from our perspective the great political task that is before us as a democratic system, let me say it, and which lies in the very nature of these convulsions that are happening in our democratic system in recent months and years: protests, elections that are alternated, with fruitless parliaments that cannot form governance, even when one is formed... governance is based on a difficult coalition that ultimately, under the weight of its differences, breaks before our eyes because this is happening. What, in my opinion and in our opinion, is deep below all these issues, is the need for normalization, for the regeneration of the democratic political process in Bulgaria itself. After the long domination of a political force, the Bulgarian democratic process must somehow normalize as such, and we see many signs that it is far from being healthy and effective. Let's just think about where this crisis started. He went from trying to exploit the subject of Macedonia through a series of lies and here I want to make it very clear. This we all agree is a fundamental topic of Bulgarian foreign policy and in general of Bulgarian self-consciousness in some sense and this topic we all allowed, and we were accomplices in this to be exploited in the most evil way to the point to which we finally, and here most authoritative speakers, institutions even agree, at last we come to the point where we have a good and perhaps a very good proposal from France and we cannot look at it. The Bulgarian political system is unable to rule on it, it continues to deal with whether there is betrayal. So what betrayal, my God, given that we have a good result, but we are actually showing with our attitude to this topic our basic inability as a political system to make decisions on top political issues, to take them in substance, not to exploit them in order to solve any momentary political needs, but to focus on something really important. That's the big deal for me. We must restore the normal democratic process so that it can produce good solutions. We are far away from this state. Let's face it, frankly, but the restoration of the normal democratic process requires some basic things, such as blood circulation. Democracy in its very logic relies on the idea that power should be changed, power cannot remain in one hand too long, and from this point of view we continue to think that as difficult as it is to release a new generation into Bulgarian politics, as this as new generation in Bulgarian politics to have to learn, to enter technology. This is extremely important and we, as a society, must be ready to invest time and we, as politicians, must be ready, I am already counting myself to perhaps some older political generation, to invest efforts and patience in this process, because it has no alternative. Back off, we can't go back. No one here stood up and said: I vote for the return of the previous government, even colleagues from GERB did not say it. The colleague Bikov said that they are ready to rule, but I am not sure if they are really ready to offer a political formula for governance, because I hope that even they understand that it is too early, too early. We must continue to invest in the hope that, in this Parliament, we can, so to speak, a new political generation to find its way into politics and restore the decision-making process on important issues. Yeah, this thing isn't easy, and no one could have expected it to be easy. I'm not a fanfare person, I'm not a hyperbole person, I'm not a fanfare person, I'm not a fanfare person, I'm not a hyperbole person, I'm not a fanfare person, I said at the very beginning: after these elections it will be difficult, this coalition will be difficult. This coalition lacks a critically elementary political culture because I have no intention of dealing with issues of meetings and any lines, but what I see is a lack of professionalism, only that professionalism has nowhere to come from just from the air, nor can we say to go back to the previous one. Bulgaria must move forward and, in the name of this hope, we, from "Democratic Bulgaria" will vote for this cabinet to remain and we will work for this Parliament to continue on the path of seeking dialogue, the way where we have differences, to have differences and to argue, but where there are important national topics, such as that of Macedonia, to be able to conduct a political dialogue and to make good decisions. No one has said it will be easy, it will not be easy, it will not be easy, but we must continue on this path because it has no alternative. In the name of hope that Bulgaria can open a new political page, however difficult it may be, we from "Democratic Bulgaria" will vote for the government. Thank you. [[(Applause from the..Democratic Bulgaria.....................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u323	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines, coworkers? Here you are, Mr. Bikov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u324	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I agree that the process of changing generations is a complex exercise, in general the change of generations at all in a society and not only in politics. But to tell you the truth, this can't be a self-sustaining process of changing generations simply to be a goal. It's usually a natural process. It's just that some people turn 98, some people turn 78, some people turn... This can't be some kind of political criterion. However, what I am observing, especially in this Parliament, is degradation, not a change of generation. We here in the last few days have become a little study room for the alphabet of politics. For example, let us start by trying to understand policy rules that there must be a majority to have a government. That doesn't make any difference to the generations. Whatever generations come will always be clear that it cannot be managed without a majority. And for example, this debate here wouldn't have happened, including all the negatives that we, both you and the government and the institutions, wouldn't have happened if the elementary rules were followed. For example, you have found out that you have lost a majority of your resignation, looking for a new formula. You're looking for a new formula. We need to learn and know that Bulgarian parliaments can also broadcast several governments. In Italy, three governments are broadcast in one parliament already. But what's happening? We're going to look for seven MPs, ten MPs. It's called political brokerage. Leave all the other stuff. This vice was in the 1990s, but because there is no experience and knowledge in Bulgarian politics, because it is forgotten after one year what happened a year ago, then we begin to learn the policy rules every time from the beginning and every new generation cannot do anything material. That's the big problem. And because someone is 30 years old, 35 years old is not a vice, but it is not a virtue and do not make it a virtue. It's a good thing when you're in parliament and when you're in politics, to be ready for anything, both pros and cons, and to rule, and to be in opposition, and above all to pay the price for being in politics, because it's a heavy price. And whoever thought he'd come here to be applauded has gone very wrong. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u325	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Second line? Mr. Dobrev, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u326	Dear Mr. Ivanov, your main thesis was that you would support the government because you do not see what better configuration of government could happen in this Parliament. However, I do not agree with you because support for the government or support for a single power should not be in order for this power to remain in power. Do you understand? In democracy, when a power is not useful, when this Parliament cannot broadcast a better government, it goes to elections. And it's a perfectly normal process. So if your argument is that you will support the government just because this Parliament cannot broadcast, in your opinion, a better government, I do not accept it. And in my opinion, this government is really not doing well, and I'll tell you why. You have not touched on this subject, however, I would like to comment on it, and if you could comment, because inflation is, for example, twice as high as the European Union average. No matter how many times Members from this tribune repeat the ministers and MPs from the government that this is not a problem for Bulgaria, that there were countries with higher inflation, we have inflation that is twice the EU average. That is, Bulgarian citizens are not only the poorest in the European Union, but they are now impoverished twice as quickly and twice as quickly as the average in the European Union. I mean, they're the poorest, they're the poorest, they're the poorest, they're the poorest, they're the poorest, they're the poorest, they're the poorest, they're the poorest, they're the poorest, they're the poorest, The praises for the fact that there was economic growth in Bulgaria, notice, for the first quarter 4.5% or 4.8% are also, how can I tell you, they are taken out of context. Do you know why? Because economic growth, the average for the European Union is 5.2%. That is, we are behind the average economic growth of the European Union. Do you know how many times this has happened in the history of Bulgaria since accession to the European Union? Twice. One time is now, the second time is in 2014. Only in these two moments the Bulgarian economy has developed faster than the average growth of the European Union's economy. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] Slow down. That is, if I said faster, it is because all the other times the Bulgarian economy has developed faster. [[Heckling]] That is, the economic growth of 4.5% is below the EU average and there is nothing to boast about. And countries that we traditionally compare to in the first quarter have economic growth between 8 and 12%. So with your 4.5%, I don't think you've accomplished much. You're talking about investments. Only if you allow me one last sentence, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u328	You're talking about 600 million investments. EUR for the first quarter of this year, only I will remind you that for 2020, if you look all year round, investments in Bulgaria are 3 billion. Euros. That is, if we compare 3 billion. EUR 12 months with your 600 million in four months, you can see that your investments are twice as low as those in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u329	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Is there a third line, colleagues? I can't see. For the doppelganger, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u330	Thank you both for your lines. Of course, youth cannot be self-indulgence or virtue, but if there is no generic transfer, democracy cannot exist. And when the generational transfer within the democratic process has been restricted for too long or in some way suffocated, it comes to an explosion. And all these convulsions are due not least to this, in my opinion. That's my thesis. And from that point of view, yes, Mr. Bikov, you said very right things. We will have to look for new formulas in this Parliament.. there is no doubt, but going back is not an option, nor is it another election. And I'm going to what Mr. Dobrev said. It could be a solution. Yes, the elections are, so to speak, the main, central democratic procedure, there is no doubt about it. But if democracy, for a reason, in its modern dominant model, relies on elections in some four or five-year periods, because there are supposed to be some other political and democratic processes between the elections that will lead to the fact that, at the end of the election, there will be a qualitatively different choice. It is obvious that we are risking another election now, given that no such process could have taken place, to come exactly to the conclusion that Mr. Bikov stressed for degradation. There are these elements.. these elements have them. You are making economic observations, and I cannot get into a conversation with you. I do not have that expertise, but I will tell you something else: I do not see what this government will be replaced with, so that we can deal with inflation, which is certainly something that we should be concerned about. I've never dealt with this kind of fanfare. I think that the economic situation is serious, there are very serious trends with which we have imported, whether they are the result of any structural problems that we have, whether they are the result of poor solutions The place of this whole conversation is actually in the parallel developing budgetary procedure where we need to talk very seriously about all this. But to push the house, because we have some problems that we need to solve in it, I also don't see a reasonable political approach. And that is why we believe that we need to confirm our support for this governance by understanding that we will be looking for new ways of dialogue on important topics and to establish a higher efficiency of the democratic process, but this must happen in this Parliament. That's what I see, that's what my colleagues see, and that's why we're voting against the vote of no confidence. Thank you. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u331	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Karadjov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u332	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister! I promised only for one minute to show documents regarding a statement made by my colleague Ninova. I quote: I call state institutions in case of a problem, I do not act like such a people. You do not go to dark rooms to bargain to pour into the pockets where this money has gone before. As an example of how they were given to the State Financial Inspection Agency and the prosecution, I just wanted to show documents, Mrs. Ninova. This is from the Court of Auditors the report ordered by the National Assembly, this is from the State Financial Inspection Agency, also a prepared report, and for the third time we have already sent to the Prosecutor's Office, together with Minister Asen Vassilev, a joint protest, because the first two times refused us, for inhouse contracts. [[Shows documents.]] Apart from that, and because I claim that there is such a people....not really a second quality people who do not understand the law or do not know the rules....we obey the law punctually....I have sent a letter on 31 January on this matter to the Prime Minister, to the Minister of Interior, to the Minister of Finance and I have requested a meeting because of the criminal element in the Inhouses because of the financial problem and because of the problem that there are constructions and these constructions should be terminated in one way or another and so was my proposal. Inside the letter, I can demonstrate it, here it is, these are the exact three things recorded: termination of the In House procedures, announcement of what was built in the fourth and fifth precinct for illegal constructions, and I've requested a meeting. [[shows document]] The meeting took place on 12 May, and although we have come to some pragmatic decisions, they have been buried in the current accusations and attacks that have been thrown at me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-21.u333	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Guys, are there any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. [[Applause.]] It's been a long day, guys. With regard to the vote on the government's vote of no confidence, I will convene an extraordinary meeting tomorrow night to meet the 24-hour deadline. The sitting will be held at 7:10 p.m. with a single point, namely the vote of no confidence in the government. That's why I'm closing today's emergency session. The next regular will be held tomorrow, June 22nd, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
