ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u1	Good morning, colleagues! Please register! Colleagues, we don't have the right number of MPs, so we can't open the meeting. We'll make a second attempt at 9:30. Discovered at 9:32 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u2	Dear colleagues, we will make a second attempt to find the necessary quorum and to start our work today. Please register! 158 registered MPs. We have the necessary quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Mr. Karimansky, please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u3	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable political formations outside the National Assembly! Trust is an integral part of the functioning of every society, of course, and of ours. Trust in each other, in our public institutions, in our leaders, these are precisely the main ingredients for social and economic progress, which allows people to cooperate and express solidarity with each other. It allows public institutions to plan and implement policies and provide services, possessing the power and management of resources that can ensure business life, security, calmness, the protection of national security, as well as the health of society. The ruling political forces have been unaware for years that they are losing the most important, priceless and irreplaceable value in society, namely trust. It has been found that greater public confidence improves compliance with regulations and tax collection, trust also gives confidence to consumers and investors, which is crucial for job creation and the functioning of economies in a broader way. The success in achieving each of the objectives of sustainable development, namely the elimination of poverty in the fight against climate change until peaceful and inclusive societies are built, will depend on the confidence of citizens and businesses in public institutions, and that is what we must strive for. There is almost no political system in the world without hypocrisy, selfishness and suggestion of infallibility, qualities that are destroying the human spirit and creative potential. The bad thing is that we haven't learned the lessons from the past, and if we do a flashback and we take a look at the political lessons for the past 30 years, we'll see how bad our students have been. The intellectual and professional potential of the people we wanted all of us to change in Bulgaria was gradually isolated from it being expelled abroad and another gradually placed in a awake coma. The question is why? What are we always short of and still short of? When the SDS with leader Ivan Kostov won power with incredible support and majority, and most of us voted for them, we all thought that he would manage two mandates to make the necessary reforms and make them sustainable. The management he led had all the necessary resources.. financial, force, foreign policy, infrastructure and so on, and why didn't he succeed in winning a second term? When His Majesty King Simeon II came with such enthusiasm and desire again for reforms, dealing with poverty and catching up with the middle European way of life, he had again all the resources listed above, but a second term failed. So until the awakening of Bulgarians in Bulgaria in a 10-year coma of mediocrity, reducing the need for knowledge so that people can not be truly free. We have come so far today to have hope in a wonderful marketing package, and it looks like this: rapid economic growth, reform of the justice system, zero tolerance for corruption, turning Bulgaria into a global financial hub and what not written on the packaging. This is how the current government is trying through facade pompousness and concealing the naked truth to present to us the beautifully clothed and tacky lie, and the content, the true part of which we can draw positive practical conclusions, to be encased in a mystery, kept from coming out of the box and possessing the souls of the people. The conclusion of the lessons life has been trying to teach us during these years was and continues to be the priceless trust. Erosing and devaluation of trust have made both Ivan Kostov and His Majesty King Simeon II and the Triple Coalition have no second opportunity, and it is cynical how over the years the political class in Bulgaria has left the people's trust to run into the canal without concern, without minimizing their complexes for infallibility and selfishness, without even softening their arrogant tone and complacency. On the contrary, politicians throughout the year continued to feed their fantasies, their self-inspiring, their fictions, so that they could even more convincingly through the media, turn them into the first power, present the lies and hypocrisy they wore as true facts, and she, Truth, continue to wander naked and look for a way to consolidate people's trust. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u4	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Colleagues, two messages should read to you. The first of them. Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria: I. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by a new order amends the permission for the dispatch and use of a plane to the French Republic and back with the crew of soldiers of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. II. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of a plane with crew members of the Swiss Air Force. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's permission to fly the airspace should be granted to the State concerned after a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas, namely the Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notifications were received on 7 July 2022 by ICs, respectively. No 47-203-09-71 and No 47-203-09-72 and granted to the Defence Committee. Second message, colleagues. On 6 July 2022, the National Assembly received an opinion from the Economic and Social Council on the topic: "Society Fund for Climate Change................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ By letters of the ISC, the materials are addressed and provided to the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on European Union Affairs, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and the Committee on Transport and Communications. Colleagues, we're going to point one for today: The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in this row. Importers - Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mr. Karimansky, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u5	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to vote in the Chamber to allow the following persons to be admitted: Mrs. Lyudmila Petkova Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u6	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Colleagues, I am putting to the vote the procedural proposal for admission. Please, voting mode. Vote 182 MPs: for 176, against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite to this House the persons to whom we voted for admission. Two reports have been filed. The first is the leading Committee on Budget and Finance. Mr. Karimansky, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u7	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 47-254-01-42, submitted by Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 21 April 2022. At a meeting held on 16 June 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Georgi Ganev, who pointed out that it proposed a gradual increase in the minimum threshold of the taxable annual turnover of 50 thousand. lv. $100,000. lv. from 1 January 2023 at 166 thousand respectively. lv. from 1 January 2024, a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises will be affected, which will become more competitive, reduce their administrative costs and be able to transfer this to their customers as well. With regard to the budgetary effects and depending on how many companies will choose to de-registered, the losses will be between 85 million. lv. and 130 million. lv. The current registration threshold, operating from 1 January 2003, has started to create major difficulties for all small businesses who are already regularly registering turnovers over this and have to register and this increases their administrative burden. In his written opinions the representatives of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Institute of Graduated Accountants and Union of Accountants. The Bulgarian Industrial Association further proposes to discuss other changes. The Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria expressed concern about how to compensate for lost public revenues in the state budget from 200 to 400 million. lv. following the introduction of the proposed relief. In the absence of a clear vision and approach in this direction, they will change their position. The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry considers it extremely important to make precise analyses of what revenue sources will compensate for the negative impact on the budget revenues of increasing the registration threshold under the Value Added Tax Act. The Institute of Graduated Accountants is against any future increase in direct taxes. According to them, information needs to be gathered on the regimes applied in the European Union. They consider that the proposed transitional rule for de-registered is in a Coliseum with provisions of the current Value Added Tax Act, which is why the general regime under the Value Added Tax Act should remain in force. The Ministry of Finance supports the Bill, whose norms are related to the total threshold for registration of 100 thousand. lv. and don't support it in the rest. They note that at present the Republic of Bulgaria has initiated a derogation procedure in accordance with art. 395 of Directive 2006/112/EC to increase the registration threshold under the Value Added Tax Act to 100 thousand. lv. with a period of validity until 31 December 2024 and applicable to any taxable person established in the territory of our country. The proposed increase will have a significant negative effect on the budget more than three times on the general VAT registration threshold, which raises the issue of their compensation with an increase in direct tax rates. The Ministry of Economy and Industry fully supports the Bill, believing that the future law will promote entrepreneurship and ease the business of self-employed, micro-enterprises and small family businesses. In order for Bulgaria to be able to apply an increased threshold for registration under the Value Added Tax Act before 1 January 2025, the derogation procedures provided for in art. 395 of Directive 2006/112/EC. They also make comments of a legal and technical nature. In the course of the discussion Mr. Georgi Ganev noted that between the first and second votes of the Bill there will be adjustments relating to the dropping of their legislative proposal to increase the registration threshold under the Tax Value Added to at 166 thousand. BGN with effect from 1 January 2024 After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held, which received the following results: 13 votes for....................... without..................................... and without....................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 47 254-01-42, submitted by Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 21 April 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u8	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. There has also been a report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. Mr. Mitev, please introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u9	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 47-254-01-42, submitted by Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 21 April 2022. At its regular meeting on 6 July 2022, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. The Law, presented by the National Representative Martin Dimitrov, aims to alleviate the administrative and regulatory burden on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as on individuals engaged in independent economic activity, in relation to the mandatory registration regime under the Value Added Tax Act, by gradually increasing the minimum threshold of the taxable annual turnover of 50 thousand. lv. $100,000. lv. From 2023 to 166 thousand respectively. lv. since 2024, the proposed change will not adversely affect persons who wish to continue to carry out their activities as economic entities registered under the Value Added Tax Act, as the legal possibility of registration by choice is maintained. Preliminary forecasts are that increasing the minimum threshold of taxable annual turnover for compulsory registration would result in less VAT revenue. At the same time, however, easing the administrative and regulatory burden would lead to the preservation of some of the businesses which, under equal conditions, would, under the pressure of increasing costs, choose to shrink significantly or to cease their activities. This would also contribute to a partial lightening of the activity in some of the sectors in which undertakings have deliberately retained their turnover below the registration threshold to save costs associated with the administration of the tax. A positive effect of the change would also be achieved as a result of improving the functioning and optimization of the structure and composition of the tax administration responsible for administering the value added tax. Written opinions on the Bill were received by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and Industry, the Ministry of Innovation and Growth, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The Ministry of Finance supports the Bill regarding the increase of the threshold for registration of 100 thousand. lv. However, they believe that the increase in the threshold of 166 thousand. lv. from 2024, it will have a negative impact on revenue in the budget, and this raises the question of how it will be compensated. The Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Innovation and Growth fully support the Bill, noting that this will improve the business environment and create better conditions for starting their own business. During the discussion Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy, at the Ministry of Finance, pointed out that a request for a derogation was sent to the European Commission, which should issue an opinion within three months. At present, there is no feedback, which would mean changes in legislation before the Commission has spoken. The National Representative Denitsa Simeonova noted that although we have not yet received an official response, the proposal of importers is entirely in the direction of what the European Union and the European Commission are aiming at, namely to ease the burden of administrative and tax, for micro, small and somewhat medium-sized enterprises. People's representative Rumen Gechev expressed his opinion that since in other countries the threshold for registration is similar, he sees no reason for the Commission to refuse, all the more so that it could be interpreted as discriminatory. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 11 votes for the draft, without the opposition and without the abstention. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovations proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 47-254-01-42, submitted by Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 21 April 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u10	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Colleagues, will there be an opinion on an importer? Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u11	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to begin with the fact that a quorum has been found on this important subject today, which shows Parliament's responsible attitude towards key reforms, for which I thank you. It has shown that even in a situation of emotional debate between us about Bulgaria's political development, we can make responsible decisions together regarding important reforms. This particular reform is a joint effort of the "Democratic Bulgaria", we continue the Change, there is such a people and of our colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria, but even better news is that the Budget Committee at first reading is supported by all 13 present MPs, which again shows that for important reforms we can work together and achieve them together. Why is that important? For 19 years, colleagues, the threshold for mandatory VAT registration has not been increased. 19 years! Since 2003, and if you ask why, if people ask us why 20 years, because it's clearer, this has never happened, none of us can give a reasonable explanation. We have proposed before, but this reform has not been achieved. I do not know how much and nobody knows how long this Parliament will still work, but I therefore call on you: let us close this reform before we go further, let this Parliament successfully complete this very, very important reform. Fifty thousand. lv. threshold for mandatory VAT registration means 137 BGN. turnover per day. BGN 137. turnover per day! Can you imagine? By increasing the threshold double, we are helping seriously the administrative burden for the smallest, for the micro companies in Bulgaria, for the self-employed, for those who are the most severely affected by the crises and by the impact of the crisis, and by inflation, and now they are paying the people and tax from the war, which is being fought and for which they have no fault at all. That is to say, the aid is directed precisely at the smallest companies, reducing the administrative burden on them, giving them a breath of air, because you imagine some Bulgarian producers, say, fruits and vegetables, can not register according to VAT, but can directly sell their production, which gives them a significant advantage in business. Why 100,000? lv.? We suggested that the registration threshold should be increased in two steps. $100,000. lv. is close to the average level in the European Union and the European Commission has no arguments, there is no reason to refuse this measure. So the derogation procedure has been initiated, for which we thank the Ministry of Finance. This exception has been requested, a derogation has been requested and we believe that there is no reason for the European Commission, provided that we align the threshold in Bulgaria to the average levels of the European Union so that small and micro-enterprises in Bulgaria can develop under no adverse conditions towards other EU member states, we do not see a reasonable reason why this should be refused to us. As for increasing the threshold to 166 thousand. BGN, which is the ceiling for the whole European Union, this as a debate will happen next year. For now we will withdraw this proposal because it will need a separate derogation, a separate procedure, a separate debate and there will obviously be more complicated because it is the highest permissible threshold in the European Union. So this debate will be led obviously next year, and then this decision will be made whether or not to be requested, whether there is a majority for such a decision. We continue to argue that this move is reasonable and correct and would improve the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy. Honourable Members, this reform is so significant that there is no day when people do not ask me: I'm sure they're asking you, too. Why didn't you? This National Assembly has done other good things, but if it raises the threshold for VAT registration, it will be remembered as that National Assembly, which 19 years later made one of the key reforms for Bulgaria's faster economic development. Let's make it certain, together and categorically! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u12	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion on this bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Mitev, you have the floor. Mr. Ananiev, I'm recording you and you for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This National Assembly, this Parliament may have become quite short 6 months, but adopted several really good laws for the Bulgarian economy. And the law that we are looking at today to support the words of Mr. Dimitrov is one of those laws which united coalition partners, ruling and opposition, and today we are all here in the Chamber to accept it. Against the backdrop of all political crises today is a long-awaited victory for small and medium-sized businesses in Bulgaria. For 20 years the threshold of mandatory registrations under the VAT Act has not been changed. Twenty years in which Bulgaria experienced political and economic reversals, no government had the will to reduce the effect of these twists on small traders. Changes to the VAT Act will effectively reduce the tax administrative burden for business. This stimulates the economy to work better and strategically against crises. The increase of the mandatory registration threshold is part of the overall package of measures adopted with the update of the 2022 budget. Another solution that shows the will to solve the problems effectively so that we can be sustainable richer as a society, creating a working and transparent economy - an economy in which everyone can create their business freely, legally, without unnecessary bureaucratic burdens from the state. For me, this bill is an example of why we are here not to play politics or to push the quorum, or to make tribunes, we are here to create working solutions for the benefit of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u14	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there any line to that statement? I won't. Nastimir Ananiev for speech, then Mr. Marinov, Alexander Ivanov and Mr. Rumen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Raising the VAT threshold is a measure which, yes, has not been made in 19 years and is very, very late. Seven years ago, we attempted to actually raise the VAT threshold and entered the same proposal in the Forty-third National Assembly. Then the Chairman of the Budget Commission Menda Stoyanova refused to release it at first reading before the Commission. I hope that today in the vote in GERB there will be catharsis and support this measure. Then the arguments were that there was a report by the Ministry of Finance and the loss for the budget would be 500 million. After an official inquiry to the Ministry of Finance it turned out that there was no such report and it was a fiction or an excuse not to accept this measure. But let me explain to you why this measure is important for micro and small businesses, we are not talking about medium business here. Fifty thousand leva is one turnover of about 4 thousand and little per month. Micro and the small business that makes a turn, let's say, 60, 70, 80 thousand. BGN, is forced to do tricks in order not to register. In a single word, he puts some of his income in the grey part of the economy. With this measure we lighten the economy, brighten the business, and also support the small business, which does not have to pay an accountant extra when he needs to make his monthly VAT declarations. It is important to note that we lift the threshold, but we leave the possibility for everyone to register freely whenever they want. You can open a company tomorrow and register for VAT, you are not required to reach the higher threshold to do so. The measure fully supports micro and small businesses and has been undertaken in more than 10 European countries so far, and in Poland has been done several times and after each doing this leads to economic growth. This measure is not something original, something invented, it's just very late. This hand had to be brought to micro and small businesses to help create jobs, create an economy, and I am glad that in the Budget Committee it was unanimously supported by all MPs, by all parliamentary forces. And I hope that in our National Assembly there is this unification that in fact the measure is working and the measure will help at a very difficult time many entrepreneurs, and this will in some way enable them to compete and deal with the crisis itself. Micro- and small businesses need to be supported. He's the backbone of every economy. In fact, without microbusiness and entrepreneurs, there's no way to look ahead with a big business. In the European Union, 75% of the backbone of the economy is micro and small businesses, so we very clearly have to state that when we have a working business and when it produces an economy, jobs and then this economy is money in the budget of the state, and it is distributed where necessary, according to the needs of every society, I think that our society has great needs both in the social sphere and in other spheres, but that is why we need strong micro and small business. And I believe that with this measure that we are continuing the Change we will support, give this hand and help this business to feel more comfortable, come out in the light and be able to make economics and create jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u16	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. To speak, Mr. Marinov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u17	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Increasing the threshold for mandatory VAT registration is, as my colleagues have said, a long-awaited measure of micro and small businesses, which includes about 800,000 self-employed persons involved in services. And here it is extremely important that VAT on this activity practically makes the state partner in this business, without providing much of the benefits in this direction. My colleagues from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria and I introduced this bill to both forty-fifth and forty-sixth parliament, but due to their short existence, we did not even reach plenary. I very much hope that in the forty-seventh National Assembly we will be able to finalise this process and that it will receive support from the entire Chamber, because this is entirely for the benefit of the small and medium-sized business. It has already come to light that this is the backbone of the Bulgarian economy. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that this measure, apart from helping purely administrative businesses, will largely lighten up, because companies who do not want to jump this threshold are looking for any options and not fully announcing their revenues, and when this happens, they do not need to do so, there will be an opportunity to have additional revenue in the budget, which will offset the VAT revenue itself. I hope we can all support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. Are there any lines, coworkers? I won't. To speak, Alexander Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u19	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The parliamentary group of GERB SDS will support raising the threshold for mandatory registration of companies from 50 to 100 thousand. lv. I would like to stress that this was in the announced election program of GERB-SDS when it appeared at the elections. In relation to this measure, we have repeatedly expressed in both the Commission and Parliament, speaking on the subject that maybe this was the only measure that Parliament could take in connection with the crisis that affected the Bulgarian business. Unfortunately, the other measures, which have been repeatedly proclaimed by the government, do not see that they can achieve such a result and effect. The colleagues who spoke before me stressed the positive side, we agree with them. I am pleased that both committees, in which I am a member of this on economic policy and budget and finance, unanimously, colleagues, adopted the Bill at first reading, as with colleagues from.. Democratic Bulgaria............................... we commented that one of the texts will drop in 2024 which will raise the threshold of 166 thousand for 2024. BGN, due to conditions that do not depend on us only because you know that this coordination must happen from Europe as well. I hope by 2024 we will find joint solutions and efforts, in Bulgaria then even if it is not in left-hand VAT registration, we will talk then in the single European currency to become such calculations and such registrations. Only, fellow Members, I would like to emphasise one thing that those who have spoken so far say that it concerns medium-sized enterprises, but under the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act, each company, which has a turnover of more than 3.9 million. BGN is already classified as small or medium, i.e. it will affect micro-enterprises if we want to be fully correct about the legislation in our speeches. We're not going to make, I guess, proposals between first and second readings. I would like to stress once again that in the entire weekly programme it may be the only draft that has a substantial, direct and direct application to the Bulgarian economy and to micro-enterprises, as well as to individuals who are engaged in economic activity in Bulgaria, which will really reduce their administrative costs. We hope that this will also have a positive impact on the price of the services provided to Bulgarian citizens. In this regard, we can say that the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS proposed extending the work of the National Assembly in the previous days until the adoption of this point, that is to say, we are emphasizing this importance, which has the proposed draft of our attention. The proposals between first and second readings that we have heard from the importers, we hope to pass as quickly as possible because, if the short life of this Parliament is emerging, in the coming weeks in the final work of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, we can really boast of a bill that we can emphasise has some positive effect on the economy and on micro-enterprises. So the support from GERB-SDS I declare once again for the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Replices, coworkers? I won't. Mr. Rumen Hristov, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u21	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you have heard from my colleague just now, the GERB-SDS parliamentary group will support the submitted Bill for increasing the threshold for registration on value added tax. Since the adoption of value added tax in Bulgaria 1994, we are constantly debating, above all, the amount of the rate and the so-called differentiated rates. This is not the subject of today's discussion, but I very much hope that, after the many crises that have hit the world and the European Union, Europe will again return to the debate on the single rate. We of the SDS strongly insist that this be discussed and that this be our position of parliament in the future. As for lifting the threshold for registration on value added tax, we should remember, Mr. Dimitrov, because Mr. Ananiev mentioned that the Reformation Bloc has tabled such a proposal, but this is an old position of the UDF and you as President of the UDF at the Blue Coalition have submitted this proposal, so this is an overgrown proposal over the years and I hope that it will happen at last. It, apart from the fact that it concerns micro companies first of all, others will probably not be affected by this relief that is given, it concerns people with free-for-profits, those who are not in employment contracts, those who are engaged in any activity, and it can be called periodic. I'm setting an example with a friend of mine who wrote a book, realized it, skipped that 50 grand. BGN, he had to register, but people didn't write books every year and didn't publish books every year, then went on the heavy procedure of the deregistered. So in addition to micro-enterprises, we will have the opportunity to help people who are in free employment, except writers, artists and so on. It's a really good measure in that direction. Now, such a significant reform with raising the threshold, I would not agree to say that this will have a great impact on the economic activity in Bulgaria, but I repeat, this is a step in the right direction. And I allow myself to offer Mr. Dimitrov, from the point of view of the short term, which remains perhaps at the forty-seventh National Assembly, to shorten the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes, so that within the forty-seventh Parliament we can accept these proposals for changing the value added tax from 50 to 100 thousand. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u22	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Hey, guys, any lines? I won't. Rosen Zhelyazkov is listed for a statement and then it's you, Mr. Taslakov. Mr. Zhelyazkov, you're giving up your speech. Mr. Taslakov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, this proposal that we are looking at today has long been written in the AGE programme, and I am pleased that we will be able to vote on it today. The fact that the legislation comes as an initiative from the "Democratic Bulgaria" and "We continue the Change" does not matter, but at the expense of this, we are here for the only reason to ensure the quorum and that this good proposal, useful for business, can move forward. This is evidence today that, despite our political differences, we can do good for people. I will not list the arguments of the colleagues who spoke before me. It'll really help. Given the inflation all these years, we think 100,000. lv. is a good threshold. It will also facilitate the small companies that carry the Bulgarian economy on their backs and will relieve them from administrative, accounting fees and so on. I repeat, this bill today will be supported by both hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u24	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. Hey, guys, any lines? I won't. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mrs. Trajanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! From the Political Party Group there is such a people, I say we will also support, except that we are also part of the contributors, and we will fully support this draft for the amendment of the Law, as the previous ones have argued. First of all, I would like to say, as colleagues have said, that this was also part of our economic programme. The situation in the country, caused by both external and internal factors, requires that this change be made urgently at this time. Although the Law will enter into force with effect from 1 January 2023, its adoption will now lead to forecastability, predictability and the ability of small companies to make their estimates from now on. The continuous increase in prices also leads to faster reaching the minimum threshold for mandatory registration under this law, all the more so, as has become clear in previous speeches, this threshold has not been changed for many years. The increase in the minimum threshold for mandatory registration, of course, will also lead to a reduction in the administrative burden for small companies. The monthly drawing up of purchases and sales diaries, references and declarations makes it difficult, complicated and costly for accounting, which, in turn, carries this price and in the proposed final product, either goods or services. We hope that the amendment that we are going to adopt today will lead to a lightening of business, a declaration of the real speed in our economy, and hence an increase in budget revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Trajanska. Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. Mrs. Dimova, you have the floor. Are you for a line? There's a statement, Mrs. Dimova is ahead of you. [[Reply from the National Representative Irena Dimova: "Welcome, Mr. Kanev."]] Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u27	Raised people give in to older people. That's how they do it. Very brief. Since the fanfare has been playing for 30 minutes how we all support this bill, I suggest we focus on voting. Looks like the law is useful. Obviously, what we do is useful for the Bulgarian business. Our parliamentary group will support it. I thank all the importers and, above all, the Budget Committee, which unanimously supported it. Vote for! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u28	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Dimova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We fully support everything that has been said so far by our colleagues. As we have stated, the GERB-SDS parliamentary group will support this bill. I just want to take you back a little bit. Yes, we agree, since 2006, the VAT registration threshold, 2006 may be wrong for the year. [[GERB-SDS lines]] , 2009, 2003, is 50 thousand. lv. In the distant 2001 or 1999 it was 100,000. BGN, then reduced to 75 thousand. lv. I can mess up the years, kind of say how the events were. The only thing I do not agree with is why it was and it continued to be 50,000. lv. You know that in these years there was a great struggle with the grey economy and this was part of the measure with which we first go from above and then lighten the grey economy, which I think is successful. I fully agree that at the moment this is a very urgent measure, which will support small and medium-sized enterprises, rather small ones. I would just like to draw your attention to there was a change in the Law in which the fight against the gray economy was written like this: if a company is active, the same, with two different companies, were united and counted for turnover. It has been shown that this measure did not result in the expected effect and did not lighten up the economy in this way, because it is difficult to prove that the same company with an address is only transferring companies so as not to reach the long-awaited turnover that we agree on. The colleague Ivanov said that this is our stake in the election campaign for VAT registration to be 100 thousand. lv. So we're going to vote hard for Mr. Kanev, even if you don't call us. And we welcome that the time has come for inflation, during any crisis at the moment, to give breath to small businesses as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, please take your seats so we can move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 47-254-01-42, submitted by Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. Vote 212 MPs: for 212, against and abstention there is no. That's how the offer is accepted. [[Applause.]] Mr. Ganev for procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also thank all my fellow Members for their support for this proposal. My proposal is under art. 79, para. 1 sentence 6. There are ideas for changes, but they are not particularly significant, so I ask the deadline to be three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u32	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any other suggestions in this direction, fellow Members? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Ganev the deadline for proposals between the two readings to be three days. They voted 210 MPs: 210, no opposition and no abstentions. With this the proposal is accepted, colleagues. Thank you. Colleagues, we should continue our work with the weekly programme as they are from this point. Six on. In this regard, I will make a procedural proposal to the National Assembly to see this. 6, 7, 8 and 9. Now I'm going to read you who they are: It's six. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on recognition, enforcement and enforcement of freezing of property. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on providing support for Greek military formations in connection with the implementation of the Marine Patrol Air Mission. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 9. Draft Law on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Islamic Republic of Iran and AstraZeneka and a Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Importer of the Council of Ministers. As my proposal is to look at these four points, then start parliamentary control and it will last three hours or until it is exhausted. Colleagues, any other proposals regarding the Programme? I can't see. I put to the vote the procedural proposal I have made. 200 MPs voted: 166, against 17, abstention 17. That's how the offer is accepted. Thank you, colleagues. We move on to item six of the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR RECOGNITION, ENFORCEMENT AND RECOGNITION OF DECISIONS FOR THE RESTRUCTURING OF IMMUNITY. Just one announcement that at 11:30 I will give a break, as I think there is an event that will take place and will be discovered then. Mrs. Tsoneva, it was 11:30, wasn't it? So at 11:30, I'll give you half an hour off, guys. A report from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs has been received with regard to the Bill. Mr. Mateev, you have the floor to introduce us to the report. The bill is at second reading, colleagues, I pay attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! "Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition, Implementation and Enforcement of Measures for the Protection of Property, No 47-202-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2022, adopted on the first vote on 11 May 2022. The Act for the Amendment and Supplement to the Act for the Recognition, Implementation and Application of Orders for the Provision of Property. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1. ................................................................................... In the name of the Law, the words........................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 2. ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 after the word The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 3. .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 3 words The Sofia City Court or the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office shall be replaced by the Court of Justice under art. 19, and the words......................................................................................... The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 be rejected. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 4. ............................................ Article 6 shall be amended as follows: "Competitor Authority." Sensitivity Art. 6. (1) The competent authorities in the Republic of Bulgaria to recognise a freezing order shall be the district courts. (2) The freezing of property act shall be recognised by the district court of residence or usual residence of the person, and for the legal person by office, address of management or address for correspondence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The act for the freezing of immovable property shall be recognised by the district court at the location of the property. If more than one property is included in the freezing, the act shall be recognised by the district court at the location of the property with the highest tax assessment. (4) The cash freezing act shall be recognised by the district court at the place of the source of the income. (5) Where two or more freezing orders have been issued in respect of the same person, property or money, which have been sent simultaneously to several district courts for recognition competent to rule on all acts, is the court which first initiated proceedings. (6) If the place of residence or the usual residence of the person is not established, but the address of the person of business, the address of the management or the address of correspondence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria competent to examine the act shall be the Sofia City Court. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 8 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 4. Proposal of the National Representative Milen Mateev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the words "Sofia City Court" shall be replaced by "The The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 1. In the title, the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. 2. In para. 1 the words "Sofia City Court" shall be replaced by "The Court of Justice" under art. 6.................................................................................. 3. In para. 3, p. 2 the words "and terminate the proceedings" shall be deleted. 4. In para. 5 the words "Sofia City Court" are replaced by "the Court." The Commission proposes to create new § 7, 8 and 9: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words "Sofia City Court" shall be replaced by "The Court of Justice" under art. 6.................................................................................. 2. In para. 2, in the text before t. 1 the words "Sofia City Court" shall be replaced by "the Court." § 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words "Sofia City Court" shall be replaced by "The Court of Justice" under art. 6.................................................................................. 2. In para. 3 the words "Sofia City Court" shall be replaced by the corresponding court. § 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words the Sofia City Court shall be replaced by the corresponding court of art. 6.................................................................................. 2. In para. 2 the words the Sofia City Court (Sofia City Court) shall be replaced by the Court (Sofia City Court). The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1 sentence first the words of the Sofia City Court The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 11 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. According to § 13 there is a proposal received by the MP Milen Mateev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Chapter 3 shall be created with art. 24 - 29: "Chapter 3" Recognition, enforcement, issuing and forwarding of freezing orders on the basis of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders (OJ L 303, 21.8.2018, p. , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2018/1805' Competent authority and proceedings for recognition of freezing order under Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 Art. 24. (1) The freezing of property act shall be recognised by the court under art. 6. (2) The Court shall initiate proceedings and set the case immediately after receipt of the instrument and the certificate referred to in art. 6 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805. The Court of Justice shall examine the case in a Chamber of a Judge in closed session. (3) The Court shall rule by order by which: 1. recognise the freezing order and send it to the relevant competent enforcement authority; 2. refuse recognition or enforcement of the freezing order; 3. recognise the freezing order and postpone its execution; 4. terminate the proceedings in the cases referred to in art. 13 (3) points (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805; 5. suspend the proceedings in the cases referred to in art. 13 (3) points (b) and (d) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805. (4) The discontinued production under para. 3, p. 5 shall be resumed in the cases referred to in Article 5. 13 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805. (5) In the cases referred to in art. 29 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 as defined in para. 3 the court shall rule on the issue of the return of secured property to the victim of a crime and the manner of return and shall send the definition of implementation to that part of the Commission for countering corruption and the revocation of the illegally acquired property. Implementation of the freezing order, notification and management of secured property Art. 25. (1) The act for the freezing of property shall be carried out in accordance with the order of art. 11. (2) The authority which has carried out the freezing shall immediately inform the court referred to in Article. 6. (3) The property secured by the order of art. 24 is governed and kept under the order of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Legal remedies Art. 26. (1) Any interested party, including a third person in good faith, may appeal against the definition of the recognition of the freezing of property before the Court of Appeal under the Civil Procedure Code within 14 days of the knowledge of its delivery. The appeal doesn't stop the execution. (2) The persons under para. 1 may appeal under the Civil Procedure Code and the enforcement of the freezing order within a 14-day period of knowledge. Definition and freezing certificate Art. 27. (1) The order for the freezing of property which is subject to recognition and enforcement in another Member State of the European Union shall be determined by the court in accordance with art. 19. (2) The freezing certificate under art. 6 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 shall be issued by the court which has established the definition of freezing. Transmission of the freezing order under Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 Art. 28. The certificate referred to in art. 6 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 and the definition of freezing of property where applicable shall be sent for recognition and enforcement directly to the competent authority in the executing State or to a central authority designated by it for: 1. the pre-trial phase of the criminal proceedings by the prosecutor; 2. the judicial phase of the criminal proceedings by the court which has given the order. This Regulation shall enter Art. 29. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the Member States of the European Union, with the exception of Denmark and Ireland. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 14 be rejected. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 15, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 3, 5 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... The additional provision shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. The name is amended as follows: 2. In § 1: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: (b) c. 1 and 2 is finally added as well as the Republic of Bulgaria. (c) a new item shall be created. 4. "4." "Member State of the European Union" are Denmark and Ireland. 3. Paragraph 1a and 1b are inserted: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way. The National Statistical Institute shall collect from the competent authorities and provide the European Commission with statistical data on freezing orders under art. 35 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805. § 1b. This law provides for measures for the application of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In § 2 of the Final Provisions, the words 'Concluding provisions'. Proposal of the National Representative Milen Mateev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the subdivision be amended as follows: "Transitional and final provisions." Proposal of the National Representative Milen Mateev: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... (1) Until the entry into force of this Act, legal proceedings under freezing orders initiated by 19 December 2020 shall be completed in the order so far. (2) Until the entry into force of this law, legal proceedings under freezing orders initiated after 20 December 2020 shall be examined and decided by the Sofia City Court. Proposal of the National Representative Milen Mateev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. The Law on recognition, enforcement and dispatch of confiscation or revocation decisions and decisions on the imposition of financial sanctions (ul., SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In the name of the law, the words "request decisions" shall be replaced by "receiving acts." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 sentence 2 is created: the claim also governs the recognition, execution and transmission of the confiscation orders entered into force. 3. In Chapter 3, Section III is created art. 43: "Application" Art. 43. The provisions of this Chapter, of Chapters 1 and 2 concerning confiscation decisions, shall apply to Denmark and Ireland. 4. Chapter 4 shall be created with art. 44 s 50: "Chapter 4" Recognition, enforcement and dispatch of confiscation orders on the basis of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders (OB, L 303/1 of 28 November 2018) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2018/1805' Competent authority. Sensitivity Art. 44. The competent authority for the recognition and enforcement of confiscation orders shall be the court of art. 6. The rules of art. Art. 6 and art. 15 shall apply accordingly. Procedure for recognition of the confiscation order Art. 45. (1) The Court of Justice referred to in art. 6 immediately initiates proceedings and schedules the case subject to the time limit laid down in art. 20 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805. The Court of Justice shall examine the case in a Chamber of three Judges in an open hearing with the participation of the prosecutor and the person concerned. (2) The absence of the person, where he is regularly summoned, shall not prevent the hearing of the case. (3) When the person cannot be found to be called regularly, a defender shall be appointed to him. (4) The court shall inform the person concerned of the confiscation order and then shall hear it. (5) When it finds the case clarified, the court shall hear the prosecutor, the person concerned and his defender and shall withdraw to a hearing for a decision. (6) Within the term referred to in art. 20 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805, the court shall rule by a decision which shall: 1. recognise the act and send it immediately to the relevant executive body; 2. refuse recognition or enforcement of the act; 3. recognize the act and postpone its execution; 4. terminate the proceedings in the cases referred to in art. points (a) and (b) of Article 22 (3) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805; 5. suspend the proceedings in the cases referred to in art. Article 22 (3) (b) and (d) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805. (7) The discontinued production under para. 6, p. 5 shall be resumed in the cases referred to in Article 5. 22 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805. (8) As long as the provisions of para. The relevant provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure shall apply. Procedure before a court of appeal Art. 46. Any person concerned, including a third person in good faith, may appeal the decision of the district court for recognition of the confiscation order under art. 20, para. 3. Implementation of the confiscation order Art. 47. The order of Art. 22 shall also apply respectively to the confiscation order. Competent authority for the dispatch of a confiscation order Art. 48. (1) The provision of art. 7, para. 1 shall also apply respectively to the confiscation order. (2) The certificate referred to in art. 17 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 shall be issued by the Bulgarian court which issued the confiscation order. Central authority Art. 49. The order of Art. 8 shall also apply respectively to the confiscation order. This Regulation shall enter Art. 50. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the Member States of the European Union, with the exception of Denmark and Ireland. 5. In the additional provisions: (a) in § 1: (aa) points 1 and 2 are amended as follows: "1." The issuing Member State shall be a Member State for the purposes of point (c) of paragraph 1 of this Article. 5 in which a confiscation or revocation decision has been given, as well as the Republic of Bulgaria, and in respect of decisions imposing financial penalties, a Member State of the European Union in which a decision to impose financial penalties on a natural or legal person has been given. 2. The executing Member State shall be a Member State for the purposes of point (c) of paragraph 1 of this Article. 5 to which a confiscation or withdrawal decision has been sent for its execution, as well as the Republic of Bulgaria, and with regard to the decisions imposing financial penalties, the Member State of the European Union to which a decision imposing financial penalties has been sent for its implementation; (bb) The creation of a t. 5. The Member State of the European Union shall, on the basis of chapters one, two and three concerning confiscation decisions, be Denmark and Ireland. (b) Paragraph 2a shall be created: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The National Statistical Institute shall collect from the competent authorities and provide the European Commission with statistical data on freezing orders under art. 35 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805. (c) Paragraph 3a shall be created: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss This law provides for measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 of the European The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. (1) Until the entry into force of this law, judicial proceedings on confiscation decisions initiated by 19 December 2020 shall be completed in the order so far. (2) Until the entry into force of this law, judicial proceedings under decisions or confiscation orders initiated after 20 December 2020 shall be dealt with by the court which initiated them. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19: "Seriously, I'm In the National Revenue Agency Act (prom., SG) in art. 3, para. 1, t. 16 the words supplies of the debtors shall be replaced by the masters of the debtors. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. In the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (promise, SG...) in art. 162, para. 6 the words supplies of the debtors shall be replaced by the masters of the debtors. The Commission proposes to establish § 21: .................................................................. In the Act for recognition, enforcement and submission of judicial acts for the imposition of a penalty.. Deprivation of liberty................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 45 from 2019) In § 3 of the Additional Provisions, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u34	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion on read texts. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. [[Noise and lines.]] Honourable Members, please take your seats so that we can proceed to the vote on the texts that have been reported in respect of which the discussion has taken place. I put to the vote first of all the name of the bill which is an importer; § 1, which is in the version of the Commission; the motion to reject § 2; § 3, which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 2; the Commission's proposal to reject § 4; § 5, which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 3; the proposal of the Commission to reject § 6; § 7 which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 4; the proposal of the Commission to reject § 8; the proposal for a new § 5. Vote 168 MPs: 159, none, abstention 9. The texts have been adopted. Colleagues, I vote: § 9 which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 6; the Commission's proposals to create new paragraphs 7, 8 and 9; § 9 which is an importer; the proposal to reject § 11; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 11; § 12 which is an importer, § 13, which is the version of the Commission, the proposal of the Commission to reject paragraphs 14 and 15; § 16 which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 14; § 17 in the version of the Commission which becomes § 15. Vote 169 MPs: 159, none, abstention 10. The tests have been accepted. Colleagues, I now put to the vote the name of the division which is in the version of the Commission; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 16; § 18 by importer, which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 17; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 18; § 19 by importer, which is in the version of the Commission; § 20 by importer, which is the version of the Commission; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 21. Vote 170 MPs: 160, none, abstention 10. The texts have also been adopted and the Second Voting Bill. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HIGH MOVEMENT. A report came in from the Committee on Education and Science. Mrs. Anastasova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Report for the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act, No 47-202-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2022, adopted on the first vote on 30 March 2022. A draft amendment and supplement to the Higher Education Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Under § 1, there is a proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev: A new paragraph 1 shall be created with the following content: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 is created a new t. 4. "4." on a proposal from the Council of Ministers adopt and update the National Map of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria, which defines the profile and territorial structure of higher education in the country in professional fields and specialties of regulated professions in accordance with socio-economic development and labour market needs; 2. In para. 3 t. 1a is amended as follows: 1a. on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science adopted a draft National Map of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria and proposed it for adoption and update of the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u36	Are there any statements under § 1? Mr. Valchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u37	Madam President, honourable Members! The need to regulate two years ago the National map of higher education is that because of the processes that took place in the last 30 years, the profile and territorial fragmentation of the system has created more higher education centres in almost all professional directions than the higher education market needs. A moratorium was imposed until this National Card was accepted. Unfortunately, the national map of higher education approved by the caretaker government last year contains a concept of territorial balance, which includes in each region almost every professional direction. I admit I disagree with that concept. We believe that the National Card should be much more restrictive, should continue the moratorium in at least 90% of the professional directions that have reached their limits of fragmentation, and there is no need for more centres of higher education. Students are adults, can travel, can live elsewhere and so the established model card can be changed annually by the Council of Ministers with the lack of this more rigid brake, which would be the National Assembly, we risk continuing the processes of fragmentation in higher education. Following the fall of the moratorium of approval of the Map last year, this has already been seen as a trend and an increased tendency to reveal new affiliates and new professional directions precisely in contradiction with the policy that has been in the last 7 years to optimize the profile structure of higher education. We therefore propose to accept the National Card by the National Assembly, and the National Assembly will make it more difficult to change, I am convinced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u38	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Are there any lines? Are there any other statements under § 1? I won't. Colleagues, I'm going to vote on § 1. We start from Mr. Valchev's unsupported proposal and just argued by him. Vote 161 MPs: 87, against 58, abstention 16. It's Mr. Abrovsky's proposal to re-vote. They voted 182 MPs: 91, against 71, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. First, we vote on the name of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. They voted 187 MPs: 125, against 43, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. We will now vote on § 1 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 195 MPs: 111, against 52, abstention 32. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u39	Under § 2 there is a proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev: In paragraph 2, point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 point (s) is amended as follows: 1a is changed in the following way: the project of the National Map of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria is developed and submitted to the Council of Ministers in coordination with the national representative trade union and employers' organizations. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Irena Anastasova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) c. 1a after the word "supplied', the words "supplied' are replaced by the words "supplied'; (b) c. 3: (aa) in the text before the letter................................................................................................ (bb) point (s) is amended as follows: (s) a register of higher schools, which record data on their main units, affiliates and their professional fields and specialities, as well as information on the assessments of accreditation procedures; (c) point (c) is amended as follows: , (c) a register of all active, interrupted and graduate students and PhD students in degrees of training and in professional fields; (dd) point (d) is amended as follows: , (d) a register of the issued certificates for the purpose of issuing a long-stay visa (visa type of third-country nationals accepted for training in Bulgarian universities and scientific organisations; (c) c. 6 point (d) is amended as follows: , (d) where plagiarism and/or underreliance of the scientific data presented in scientific works on the basis of which a scientific degree has been acquired or an academic position has been taken or where the rector fails to fulfil his obligation under art. 35, para. 4 of the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria; (d) shall be established. 12: ..12. approve or refuse to approve the joint training agreements of students under art. 42a, as well as their amendments. 2. They're creating an al. 5 and 6: (5) The contents, conditions and arrangements for keeping the registers under para. 2, p. 3 shall be determined by regulations issued by the Minister of Education and Science. (6) The National Information and Documentation Centre shall receive free of charge through the inter-registered exchange environment maintained by the Minister of Electronic Governance, details of the natural persons under art. 25 of the Law on Civil Registration, maintained by the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administration in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, within the scope necessary for the maintenance and maintenance of the information system under para. 2, p. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u40	Thank you. Only in the field of scientific research, to be noted. I'm opening the discussion under § 2. Colleagues, do you have any comments? I won't. I suggest we move on to a vote. First, we will vote on the unsupported proposal made by the MP Krasimir Valchev. Vote 172 MPs: 76 against 80 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 2 by importer, supported by the Commission by a version of the Commission. Vote 176 MPs: 134 against 7, abstention 35. With this, § 2 was accepted. I'll read you a message. Dear colleagues, from 11.30 am in the lobby of the European Corner will be opened an exhibition entitled "Bulgarian media around the world." The exhibition presents photos and documents showing the creation and development of Bulgarian media abroad and their main mission to maintain and develop interest in the homeland. The exhibition is initiated by Mrs. Antoaneta Tsoneva and is realized jointly with BTA. All MPs of the event were invited. In this regard, I'm giving half an hour off until 12:00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u41	Colleagues, I'm going to resume the hearing. Mrs. Anastasova, you have the floor to proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u42	Proposal of the National Representative Irena Anastasova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetelina Simeonova-Zarkin, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the 1 Higher School, which makes a significant contribution to the development of important public areas through high research and has high results from research, evaluated according to objective indicators, including a number of scientific publications in publications referred to in international databases, number of published patent applications, number of quotations from other authors in refereeed and indexed journals in international databases, can be assigned to higher school. The objective indicators, the international databases and the methodology for determining higher schools as research shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. Under § 4, there is a proposal of the National Representative Andrey Chorbanov, made in accordance with Article 4. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. The 16th digit is replaced by the 8th digit. 2. A new para is being created. 7? 9: . (7) Higher schools, which received in the course of a programme accreditation assessment from 8,00 to 10,00 and the organizations under art. 47 have the right to carry out educational and scientific training in the implementation of a research project with funding for not less than three years under conditions laid down in the rules on their activities and the relevant research project and by contract between the higher school or scientific organisation, the project manager and the doctorate. (8) PhD students under para. 7 shall be accepted in a regular form of training outside the established number according to the order of art. 9, para. 3, p. 6 points (a) and (d) shall be provided by the research project within which they are trained. (9) Training under para. 7 shall be terminated upon termination of the research project under which it is carried out and the consequences for the parties shall be governed by the contract under para. 7. The training may not be terminated if the funding is provided by other sources, including the higher school budget. 3. Previously on AMC's... 7, 8 and 9 become respectively. 10, 11 and 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. Proposal of the National Representative Anton Tonev: To create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 the 1. In para. 3 after the word "School" is added in compliance with the requirements of para. One, two and four. 2. A new para is being created. 4. (4) In a higher school with less than 175 habilitated professors of basic work contract all these lecturers shall be included in the General Assembly when maintaining the ratios under para. 2. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 sentence, third and fourth of the CST adopted a decision not to consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible, as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. Proposal of the National Representative Irena Anastasova to create a new § 7. The motion has been withdrawn. According to § 7 there is a proposal of the MP Irena Anastasova. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Elisaveta Belobradova. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Irena Anastasova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Antonia Dimitrova, made by the order of Art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 42a: Art. 42a. (1) The Bulgarian universities may conclude agreements with each other for carrying out joint training of students in a specialty of an unregulated profession. (2) The agreements under para. 1 as well as their amendments shall enter into force after their approval by the Minister of Education and Science. (3) The training under para. 1 shall be carried out in the coordination of one of its partner universities within the framework of whose programme accreditation the specialty in which the joint training of the students is conducted is opened. (4) The co-ordinating university shall have a programme accreditation for the vocational course of the joint training, and the other senior schools shall participate in the training of courses of specialties in accredited professional fields and/or specialties of regulated professions. (5) Not less than half of the entire course of training shall include disciplines related to the professional direction in which the specialty is opened. (6) The first period of training under para. 1 shall be carried out by the coordinating university. (7) Where the training is in places established according to the order of art. 9, para. 3, p. 6 points (a) and (b) are adopted within the established number for the relevant professional direction of the coordinating university, and the act of the Council of Ministers explicitly indicates the number of accepted students for joint training. (8) Students shall be entered in the register under art. 10, para. 2, p. 3 point (c) as students of the coordinating university, and under conditions and by order defined in the regulation for keeping the relevant register under art. 10, para. 5, and senior school partners are noted. (9) The model of the diploma for the completed degree of higher education and the joint training documentation for the speciality shall be validated by the management bodies of all senior school partners. (10) The individual documentation of the training periods passed by the students shall be kept by the coordinating university. (11) The means to support the training of the students in the training under para. 1 shall be determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of Chapter 11, provided through the coordinating university and distributed amongst the higher education schools, depending on their obligations under the agreement signed between them. (12) The diploma for completed degree of higher education, the European diploma application, the certificate of professional qualification and the other basic documents issued in the training under para. 1 shall be drawn up in accordance with the regulation referred to in Article 1. 7, para. 1 and shall be signed by the Rector of the Coordinating Higher School or by all Rectors of Higher Schools, partners in joint training, as agreed in the agreement under para. 1. The awarded diplomas of the students shall be registered in the register under art. 10, para. 2, p. 3 letter (s) from the coordinating university. (13) The Agreement under para. 1 must contain: 1. the higher schools - partners of the agreement, and the designated by them as co-ordinating; 2. The specialty in which the training under para. 1, the professional direction in which it is opened and the professional directions with training in courses of specialties, in which the higher schools will participate, the partners; 3. the school year from which the training under para. 1; 4. the rights and obligations of the senior school partners ratio of: (a) the admission of students; (b) training periods in different higher education partners; (c) the distribution of training under the curriculum and its place of conduct; (d) the distribution of the content of the curricula between senior school partners; (e) the allocation of support funds for the training of students; (f) the mechanism for forming the fee offered for the training under para. 1 subject to the provisions of this Act and the mechanism for allocating the funds from training fees between senior school partners; (g) the issuance of the diploma for the completed degree of higher education and other basic documents issued as a result of the joint training. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Slavov to create a new § 9. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. A decision on eligibility to consider and vote on the proposal was adopted by 1 of the EUMC. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal of the National Representative Elisaveta Belobradova to create a new § 9. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. A decision on eligibility to consider and vote on the proposal was adopted by 1 of the EUMC. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... Article 3 is Art. 44b. (1) For the continuation of the training under a regulated profession, completed periods of training and credits may be recognised only from a training carried out in the same speciality of a regulated profession and to the same degree of higher education. (2) No training shall be allowed within reduced periods in specialities of regulated professions, unless explicitly provided for in the State requirements for the acquisition of higher education in the respective speciality of a regulated profession. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10, in which the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. Proposal of the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva and a group of MPs. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. A decision on eligibility to consider and vote on the proposal was adopted by 1 of the EUMC. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetelina Simeonova-Zarkin, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 68 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) Higher schools, after a decision of the academic board, may accept without a competition exam candidate students who have successfully passed the state matriculation exams and/or compulsory state exams for the acquisition of professional qualification in the theory and practice of the profession, according to the Pre-school and School Education Act, within the established number according to art. 9, para. 3, p. 6 letters.......................................................................................................................... 2. A new para is being created. 8th para. 9. The admission of students, PhD students and residents of Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria shall be carried out in accordance with art. 10, para. 2 of the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria. (9) The admission of students, PhD students and residents of Bulgarian origin, citizens of the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republic of Kosovo, the Republic of Moldova, the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the Republic of Serbia and Ukraine shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Act of the Council of Ministers under art. 10, para. 2 of the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, whether they have acquired Bulgarian citizenship or have permission for permanent residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 13. Proposal of the National Representative Irena Anastasova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 3, p. 2 Finally, the full documentation of the procedures for holding academic positions and the public access provided within the relevant legal deadline in the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria is added. 2. The creation of para. 14: The training referred to in Article 14 (2) shall be carried out in accordance with the principles set out in the Annex to this Regulation. 42a is not subject to self-accreditation but is reported in the programme accreditation procedures of the relevant senior schools partners. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 15, in which it shall be replaced by the date. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 17. According to § 16 there is a proposal of the MP Ivan Chenchev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 18. Proposal of the National Representative Irena Anastasova to create a new § 17. The motion has been withdrawn. According to § 17 there is a proposal of the MP Anton Tonev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 6 words................................................................................. 21, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled 2. In para. 10 shall be added at least as much as the specified under para. 4 training fee in the relevant specialty and regardless of what language the training is carried out. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 20. Proposal of the National Representative Irena Anastasova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Higher Education (SG, No. 17 from 2020) The following amendments and additions shall be made to the transitional and final provisions: 1. In § 61, after the words "Programming accreditation" is added "and accreditation of doctoral programs", after the words "they have the right to"......................................................................................... is added.............. is added................. is added................................................................................................................. 2. In § 67, para. 1 after the word "suppliers" the President of the General Assembly of the Higher School shall be added and a comma shall be placed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Get some rest, let's stop here. Dear colleagues, I am opening a discussion on the so-read texts by Mrs. Anastasova. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Professor Chorbanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! In all the debates and topics that have been proposed in the Commission, many of them have been subjected to the relevant debates and some of them we disagreed with, some of them have not been accepted. But what I can say is that all we propose for a vote as a joint decision of the Commission was a result of consensus and will be of absolute benefit to the development of higher education in Bulgaria. Many of the changes are completely in line with European norms, so such updating and coordination can only be beneficial for students and PhD students and generally for the development of education. So I call on the Members of the National Assembly to support the Commission's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u45	Thank you, Professor Chorbanov. Hey, guys, any lines? I won't. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Honourable Members, please take your seats to proceed to the vote. First of all, I put to the vote § 3, which is in the version of the Commission, § 4, which is in the version of the Commission, and § 5, which is by importer. Vote 180 MPs: 175, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 sentence last I should put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Anton Tonev to create a new § 6, which is on page 6. This proposal has not been examined by the Commission, but I am voting on whether the same should be put to the substance of the vote. That is, if you vote at the moment, then there will be a vote on whether the proposal itself will be voted on in substance. Is that clear? [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] I put to the vote whether Anton Tonev's proposal to create a new § 6 will be voted on as a consequence. Mrs. Atanasova, look at this. 80, para. Two last sentence, and you'll understand why. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Yes, look at this text and you will understand why. I'll read it to you guys. A final sentence says: "The proposals that conflict with the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote are not discussed and voted on by a decision of the National Assembly. That is, the National Assembly must decide whether this proposal should be put to the vote on substance or not. That's what we've done so far. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Absolutely unacceptable is this procedural proposal you just made. After the Commission rejected a proposal as inadmissible for consideration, discussion and voting during the meeting, it rejected it with an argument that it is likely contrary to the bill tabled at first vote or principles in it. This coup d'état of the Rules, Mr President, is indeed incorrect, and I appeal that you reconsider your proposal to the National Assembly, the plenary, to decide something that the Commission has not allowed. It is one thing for the Commission to reject one proposal, another is for the Commission not to allow it to be discussed at all, to be voted on because it is in some contradiction with the bill. I believe that you are not doing the right thing if you propose such a vote in this House. I therefore ask you not to violate the order and, obviously, the consensus that currently exists for the adoption of this bill. Otherwise, I really assume you're going to make a gross mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Are there any other procedures on this matter? Docent Tonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! This is a proposal I made between first and second readings. There was a vote in the Commission which it considered to be out of scope. In view of the situation in which this National Assembly is located, and given the importance of the Law being adopted in full, as Professor Chorbanov mentioned, I personally decided to respect the Commission's opinion and propose the changes to which, thanks to the official information, the Law, which is interested in my proposal, can examine it and understand what a disadvantage of the Law I am trying to correct through it, but my personal decision remained if possible in a separate Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education to suggest the same. So I propose, at the time of my esteemed President, that we do not add to the passions and take into account the opinion of the Commission, which has adopted it as inadmissible in the capacity that it is outside the scope of the bill. I believe that we will have the opportunity to discuss in essence very soon, in a separate bill, this flaw in the Law, which is objective, which is proved by figures that we have received from the Ministry of Education, and to have a separate debate on the substance, because it turned out to be a rather flexible subject that has suddenly become super important and has led to serious debates and sparks in the Committee on Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u49	Professor Tonev, just to clarify that this is possible only if you withdraw your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u50	I'm using the second opportunity you've given me to withdraw the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u51	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Prof. Tonev's proposal has been withdrawn. Colleagues, respectively, I will not put to the vote whether or not to be allowed to be examined and voted in the Chamber in accordance with art. 80, para. Two last sentence. I shall put to the vote § 6 which is an importer; § 7 which is an importer; § 8 which is an version of the Commission; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 9; § 9 by an importer which becomes § 10 by the corresponding adjustments made; § 10 by an importer which becomes § 11; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 12; § 11 which is an importer and becomes § 13; § 12, which is an version of the Commission and becomes § 14; § 13, which is an importer and becomes § 15, with the relevant minor corrections by the Commission, as were read by Mrs Anastasova and as referred to in the Commission Report; § 14, which is an importer and becomes § 16; § 15 which is an importer and becomes § 17; § 16, which is an importer and becomes § 18; § 17 which is in the Commission's version and becomes § 19; § 18, which is an importer and becomes § 20, and the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 21. Vote 191 MPs: 188, no objection, abstention 3. That's how the texts were adopted. Mrs. Anastasova, you have the floor to proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u52	'Concluding provisions'. Proposal of the National Representative Anton Tonev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. § 19 supposed by the National Representative Irena Anastasova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 19 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position as § 21, t. 1. Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position as § 21, t. 2. § 20 supposed by the MP Irena Anastasova. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. One, four and seven, and he's supporting him for the rest of it. Proposal of the National Representative Hristo Simeonov, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Petar Nikolov, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. 38 from 2010; amended, Decision No 11 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria of 5.10.2010 "Dv," No. 81, 2010; amend. and Dop., No. 101, 2010, p. No. 68 of 2013, No. 30, 2018 No. 17 of 2019, p. 17 of 2020 and No. 21 of 2021) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 6 a sentence is created second: the National Information and Documentation Centre receives free of charge through the inter-registered exchange environment supported by the Minister of Electronic Governance, data on individuals under art. 25 of the Law on Civil Registration, maintained by the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administration in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, within the scope necessary for the maintenance and maintenance of the register under para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) in para. 7 a sentence third is created: The termination of academic and research activities due to death or exemption from academic position on the basis of art. 35, para. 1 as well as the withdrawal of the scientific degree by the order of art. 35, para. 2 shall be entered in the register by service. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 in a sentence first the words in the accredited by the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation (NAAA) professional directions and specialties are deleted and in a sentence second the contest for the training of PhD students under art is added. 21, para. 7 of the Higher Education Act only on the website of the higher school or scientific organisation concerned. (b) A new para shall be created. 2: (2) The open procedures under para. 1 shall be suspended and terminated by a decision of the higher school or the scientific organisation. c) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3 and in the end it is added the training of PhD students under art. 21, para. 7 of the Higher Education Act, within a period of not less than one month after publication of the notice on the website of the Higher School or the Research Organisation, (d) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 5, t. 3 after the word "plagiarism" the submission of scientific data shall be added, and the words "scientific works" shall be replaced by their scientific works. (b) in para. 8, p. 2 words.............................................................................. 3, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (c) paragraph 11 is amended as follows: When the valuation under para. 1 A member of the Scientific Jury shall establish or receive a written signal of plagiarism or untrustworthyness of the scientific data presented, which is not anonymous and motivated, the Scientific Jury shall be decided by a decision on the existence or absence of them in the thesis or the scientific works presented in the competition by order laid down in this Law and in the regulations of higher schools and scientific organisations. In such cases, before giving a ruling, the Scientific Jury shall enable the applicant to submit his opinion. (d) in para. 12 after the word "plagiarism" the submission of scientific data shall be added. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 3, para. The following points are inserted 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 1 the PhD students under art. 1 shall be added at the end. 21, para. 7 of the Higher Education Act and in accordance with the conditions of the project. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 sentence first, the word "one' is replaced by "at least one'; (b) in para. 2 after the word "plagiarism" the submission of scientific data is added. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 1 words which are sent within a three-day period to the Ministry of Education and Science for Recording shall be deleted. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1 is finally added as for specialties from the regulated professions in the professional field of health and education, the academic position can also be taken up by a person holding an educational and scientific degree of doctor in the specialty of the regulated professions in the professional fields of medical, dental medicine and pharmacy or public health. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 21 3 is amended as . (3) The contest shall be held no later than one month after the sending of the message under para. 2. During the final meeting the candidates shall present an exhibition on a topic or topics of a framework drawn up for the announced contest and made available to them in advance. At the discretion of the scientific jury, the presentation of candidates may also include a written statement or other statement or presentation as defined in the rules of the higher school or the scientific organisation. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 1 sentence second after the word "plagiarism', the submission of scientific data shall be added. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 1 is finally added as for specialties from the regulated professions in the professional field of health and education, the academic position can also be taken up by a person holding an educational and scientific degree of doctor in the specialty of the regulated professions in the professional fields of medical, dental medicine and pharmacy or public health. (b) c. 5 after the word "plagiarism" the submission of scientific data is added. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 4 after the word "plagiarism" the submission of scientific data is added. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 1 is finally added as for specialties from the regulated professions in the professional field of health and education, the academic position can also be taken up by a person holding an educational and scientific degree of doctor in the specialty of the regulated professions in the professional fields of medical, dental medicine and pharmacy or public health. (b) c. 6 after the word "plagiarism" the submission of scientific data is added. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 8. (aa) in the text before t. 1 the word "seven days' is replaced by "14 days'; (bb) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." are habilitated in Bulgarian universities or scientific organizations, with results in the respective specialty and/or professional direction for the announced competition or the theme of dissertation work and, if not possible, in the relevant scientific area, and/or scientists from foreign universities or scientific organisations with results in the relevant specialty and/or professional direction, and/or scientific area; (b) in para. the 12th sentence is first deleted; 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32, para. 1 words The orders of the Rector of the Higher School are respectively replaced by the Acts of the Higher School Management Authorities, respectively. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 new paras are being created. 4 and 5. (4) In the cases referred to in para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 The Rector of the Higher School or the Head of the Scientific Organization shall be obliged to terminate the employment relationship for the academic position held and to withdraw the acquired scientific degree within one month of notification of the act establishing plagiarism or non-reliance of the scientific data presented in scientific works. (5) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 if the person does not hold an academic position, the scientific degree acquired by the Rector of the Higher School or by the Head of the Scientific Organisation who awarded it shall be withdrawn. 17. In § 4c of the Supplementary Provisions, the words "acquirement of scientific titles' shall be replaced by "acquired of scientific degrees'. Proposal of the National Representative Anton Tonev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 24. Proposal of the MP Ivan Chenchev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Irena Anastasova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Within 4 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall, on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, align the ordinance under art. 7, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion on so-read texts. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? There are no speeches. I'm calling off the discussion. I shall put to the vote the name of the subdivision which is an importer; the Commission's proposal to reject § 19; § 20, which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 22; § 21 which is an importer, and becomes § 23; § 22 which is an importer, and becomes § 24; and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 25. Please, voting mode. Vote 172 MPs: for 172, against and abstention there are no all in favour. The texts have been adopted and the Second Voting Bill. Thank you, colleagues. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] Professor Tonev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, on the second floor are our guests from the Medical University of Pleven. [[Loud and long applause.]] I would like to congratulate them, because fellow students, other than treating, should know ours, if I may say in quotes, a healing activity on normalism. They will be our guests and guests of the Health Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u55	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Welcome to our guests today. We also thank the Minister for joining us today in discussing the Bill. Would you like the word, Minister? Have a nice day for me. Mr. Mateev, come in for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Yesterday the Supreme Judicial Council refused to remove Ivan Geshev from the post of Chief Prosecutor of the Republic of Bulgaria. It was not unexpected, but even the little hope of catharsis in the Council members went out. We from "We continue the Change" believe that Ivan Geshev does not meet the high moral requirements for taking up the position of Chief Prosecutor. We would like to recall the arguments for Ivan Geshev's early removal from office. They are serious and socially significant and their neglect by the majority in the Supreme Judicial Council is particularly disturbing. With the exception of two brave women atanasca disheva and Olga Kerelska [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] , the other members of the Council put their legal authority and morality at the feet of Geshev. We from "We continue the Change" support the arguments presented by Minister Nadezhda Yordanova for gross violations, systematic breach of obligations and undermining the prestige of the judiciary by the Attorney General in her request for his early removal. We think that Ivan Geshev owes an explanation to the public about the lack of action after the journalistic investigation of the case. He should explain the closed eyes of the prosecution against police violence during the protests of the summer of 2020, when he even justified the ugly scenes behind the columns of the Council of Ministers. It was particularly fracking the case of the disclosure of special intelligence data against politically inconvenient persons bordering on a crime. The use of the prosecutor's office as a bat, the calls for pre-trial proceedings, the calling of uncomfortable ministers and politicians, the preliminary delivery of sentences in the media should not have any place in a free and democratic society, let alone be part of the instrumentals of the Chief Prosecutor of the Republic. Violation of the presumption of innocence and the principle of separation of authorities should not be part of a chief prosecutor's understanding. The Guardian of the model Borisov remained at his post. We from "We continue the Change" also remain unwavering in our goal Ivan Geshev to be removed from his position as Prosecutor General. The prosecution should investigate the real criminals, investigate the huge abuse of public funds and work for the benefit of Bulgarian citizens. We firmly believe that and we will stand up for our position as independent and leading only by law and moral prosecution. We believe that the reformist anti-corruption majority in the next parliament will return much stronger. We rely on all Bulgarian citizens who have the power to fight corruption through their votes. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u57	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Colleagues, we continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE MINISTERAGE OF THE BULGERIA REPUBLIC AND THE MINISTERATION OF THE NATIONAL MEETING OF THE REPUBLIC OF IRELAND ON THE SUBSTITUTION OF THE RENEFICTION OF THE MILK MILITARY FORMATION WITH REGARD TO THE USE OF THE MISSIONS OF THE MARITIME PATRUL AVIATION. Importer is the Council of Ministers A report came in from the Defence Committee. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic for providing support for the Greek military formations in connection with the implementation of the Maritime Patrol Mission. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law. I'm the only one. The Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on providing support for a Greek military formation in connection with the implementation of a Marine Patrol Air Mission signed in Sofia on 19 August 2021 and in Athens on 17 November 2021. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as the sole member.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u59	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Tsoncho Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u60	Mr. Zafirov, I just have one question. I would ask you to respond to this question, because Bulgaria will provide support for this military formation or international funds, or will the Greek army provide this support because it has not become clear? Please, if you consider it normal, give any definition or whatever you want to define it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines to that statement? I won't. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. Colleagues, I'm calling off the discussion. My fellow Members, I put to the vote the name of the bill, which is by importer, and a single member, which is also by importer. Vote 146 MPs: 133, against 12, abstention 1. With this, the proposal has been adopted and the Second Voting Bill has been adopted. We move on to the next item on the agenda and last for today before parliamentary control: LAW FOR THE RATIFITING OF A TRISTICAL AGREEMENT FOR THE DONATION OF A VACINS AGAINST COVID-19, PROCEEDED BY THE ASTRAZENEC, BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, ISLYAM REPUBLIC OF IRAN AND ASTRAZENECIA AND A TWISE AGREEMENT FOR THE DONATION OF AXINS AGAINST COVID-19, PROCED BY ASTRAZENEKA, BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE ISSIAN REPUBLIC OF IRAN. Importer is the Council of Ministers. A report came in from the Health Commission. Who's gonna introduce him, guys? Docent Tonev, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Islamic Republic of Iran and AstraZeneca and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Iran, No 47-202-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2022. At its regular meeting, held on 9 June 2022, the Health Commission examined and discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Islamic Republic of Iran and AstraZeneka and a Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Iran, No 47-202-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2022. The meeting was attended by the Director of the Directorate for Coordination and International Cooperation at the Ministry of Health Ms. Katya Ivkova and representatives of the word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. Prior to the submission of the reasons, it was noted that the documents to the agreements subject to the bill under consideration included a declaration of absence of conflict of interest and respect for the confidentiality of acquisition by the Commission, on behalf of the Member States, of vaccines against COVID-19, while neither the accompanying letter nor the reasons for that declaration should be signed and respectively by whom. In this regard, a question has been asked to the importer how this declaration should be handled by the Committee on Health, respectively by the National Assembly, in order to comply with the procedure for examining and voting on the ratification bill. In response to the question asked, Ms. Katya Ivkova explained that the Republic of Bulgaria as a participating Member State in the agreements concluded between the European Commission and AstraZeneka As provided for in clause 16.5 (c) of the Agreement concluded between the European Commission and AstraZeneka, the receiving Party, in the case of the Republic of Bulgaria, may disclose confidential information to those partners, employees and workers who need it, and only that part of the confidential information which is necessary to ensure that the receiving Party is able to use the rights granted under this Agreement and/or fulfil its obligations under this Agreement and provided that the receiving Party remains responsible for the fact that its partners, employees and employees will not disclose and/or use the confidential information for any other purpose. In this regard, the declaration applied in the documents should be signed by any person who has access to the content of the agreements ratified by the National Assembly. The draft and the reasons for it were presented by Mrs. Ivkova, who informed the MPs that the Agreement, by which the European Commission is empowered to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines ( 71 from 2020) . The clause of art. 8.3 (b) of the Agreement concluded between the European Commission and AstraZeneca provides that, in the event of an excess of doses of vaccines, participating Member States may donate them to countries with low or medium-sized income or public institutions and donate or resell such doses without profit to other European countries which agree to be bound by the terms of the Agreement applicable to a participating Member State. In connection with the above, Council of Ministers Decision No 195 of 1 April 2022 approved the draft Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Islamic Republic of Iran and AstraZeneca and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Iran as a basis for negotiation. In accordance with that Decision, those agreements were signed on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria on 1 April 2022. The Tripartite Agreement was sent on 1 April 2022 for a subsequent signature by a producer and the same was signed and received at the Ministry of Health on 2 April 2022. The drafts of the Tripartite and the Bilateral Agreement were sent for a subsequent signature to the Islamic Republic of Iran on 2 April 2022 and were signed and received at the Ministry of Health on 3 April 2022. The signed agreements provide for a donation of 2 million. 830,000. and 400 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine against COVID-19 with an expiration date until 30 June 2022, providing for all delivery costs to be borne by the Islamic Republic of Iran. Mrs. Ivkova clarified that due to the short shelf life of the vaccines, a clause for the provisional application of the agreements from the date of their signature was provided for, thus allowing the receiving party to take all necessary organisational measures and actions to obtain them and apply them in its territory to prevent the risk of destruction of the vaccines. The ratification of the above agreements is on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts situated in Brussels, Belgium, for settlement of disputes and for the applicable law in their implementation to be Belgian law. The Law provides that the ratified agreements are not to be published in the Official Journal of the European Union because of the confidentiality requirements laid down in them, as well as in the Agreement concluded between the European Commission and AstraZeneca. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health raised specific questions regarding the currently available quantities of vaccines against COVID-19 in the country and the number of vaccines destroyed so far due to expiry date. It has been noted that the Bill should be supported as it will prevent the destruction of these vaccines due to expiry date. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out in the following results: 11 votes for.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u63	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion on the submitted bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, I put to the first vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Islamic Republic of Iran and AstraZeneca and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Iran. They voted 146 MPs: 103, against 12, abstention 31. That's how the offer is accepted. Professor Tonev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 I am making a procedural proposal that the bill adopted in the first vote should be reviewed and put to a second vote in one sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u65	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Colleagues, I'm putting the procedural proposal to the vote. Vote 118 MPs: 112 against 1, abstention 5. That's how the offer is accepted. Professor Tonev, please introduce us to the bill for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u66	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Islamic Republic of Iran and AstraZeneka and a Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Iran Art. 1. Ratifying the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Islamic Republic of Iran and AstraZeneka, signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 1 April 2022, by AstraZeneka on 2 April 2022 and by the Islamic Republic of Iran on 3 April 2022, and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Iran, signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 1 April 2022 and by the Islamic Republic of Iran on 3 April 2022. Art. 2. Orders on grounds of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the agreements under art. 1 shall not be published in the Official Journal. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u67	Thank you, Professor Tonev. I'm opening a discussion, colleagues. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put the bill to a second vote, as it was read by Associate Professor Tonev, in full................................................................................................ Art. 1, art. 2, the name of a division, as well as a single paragraph. They voted 137 MPs: 98 against 14, 25 abstentions. With this, the proposal is adopted and the Second Voting Bill. Colleagues, we're moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. I should read you the answers to questions and questions received for the period 1 to 7 July 2022. Written answers from: - Minister of Retirement Alexander Nikolov on a question from the MPs Alexander Dunchev, Petar Kulenski and Ivaylo Shotev; from the MP Zhecho Stankov; from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Retirement Assen Vassilev on questions from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; and from the National Representative Hristo Gabzhev; - Minister of Retirement Asena Serbenova of questions from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; and eight questions from the National Representative Stoilov; - Minister of Retirement Atanas Atanasov on questions from the National Representative Andrey Chorbanov; from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva; from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; from the National Representative Iliana Zhekova; from the National Representatives Petar Kulinski, Ivaylo Shotev and Alexander Dunchev; - the resignation minister Bozidar Bojanov of questions from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; and from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - Minister of Retire Boyko Rashkov on questions from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; from the MP Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; from the National Representative Stoil Stoilov; from the National Representative Hristo Terziyski; from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Deputy Prime Minister in Retirement Borislav Sandov to questions from the MP Alexander Dunchev; from the MPs Alexander Dunchev, Inna Ivanova and Tsvetelina Simeonova-Zarkin; to two questions from the MPs Alexander Dunchev, Peter Kulenski, Ivaylo Shotev; to a question from the MPs Alexander Dunchev, Tsvetelina Simeonova-Zarkin, Radoslav Vassilev and Radoslav Ribarski; to a question from the MP Zecho Stankov; to a question from the MP Ivaylo Mirchev; to a question from the MP Ivo Ruschev; to a question from the MP Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; to a question from the MPs Petar Kulenski, Ivaylo Shotev and Alexander Dunchev; to three questions from the National Representative Tatyana Sultova-Siveva; and to two questions from the MPs from Simeonov; - Minister of Retire Georgi Gokov on questions from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; and from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - Deputy Prime Minister Grozdan Karadjov on a question from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; and two questions from the National Representative Nikolay Nankov; - Minister of Retire Daniel Lorre on questions from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; and from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - Minister of Retirement Dragomir Zakov for questions from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; from the MPs Nikola Dimitrov and Nikolay Drenchev; and from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Minister of Retirement Ivan Ivanov on questions from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; and from the National Representatives Stoil Stoilov; Iskren Mitev and Alexander Dunchev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Retirement Kalina Konstantinova on issues from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; and from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - Deputy Prime Minister in Retirement Cornelia Ninova of questions from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; and six questions from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Minister of Retire Nadezhda Yordanova on a question from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; - Minister of Retire Nikolay Denkov for questions from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; and from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - Minister of Retire Nikolay Subev of questions from the National Representative Desislava Atanasova; from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; and from the National Representative Stoilov; - Minister of Retirement Radostin Vassilev on questions from the National Representative Dimitar Tashev; from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; and from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - retired minister Teodora Genchovska on questions from the National Representative Dimitar Tashev; from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; and from the MPs Nikola Dimitrov and Nikolay Drenchev; - Minister of Retire Hristo Prodanov on questions from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov; and from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova. We'll start with parliamentary control. The first question is to Mr. Grozdan Karadjov, Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works, resigned. He will answer a question from the National Representative Neby Kabak about rehabilitation and restraint of Republican road III-379 from km 0+000 to 10+051 Cave Here you are, Mrs. Kabak, to develop your question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the House, Dear Minister! My question to you is about rehabilitating and securing the Republican road Peshtera, Batak, Nova mahala, Valcha Polyana locality, Pazardzhik district. In recent years, numerous letters have been sent to the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Regional Road Management Pazardzhik in order to bring the Republican road Peshtera "Batak" New neighborhood "The Valcha Polyana locality," in accordance with the requirements for normal passability and road environment. Unfortunately, no satisfactory response has been received so far. The reason to turn to you is that due to the systematic road failure, the pavement on both sides has been destroyed and even missing places, making the movement dangerous and a prerequisite for road accidents. In this regard, my question to you is: when will the road be installed and secured, and when will the necessary action be taken by the Road Infrastructure Agency?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Kabak. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer. Just before that, Mr. Georgiev, a message to say which representatives of the Council of Ministers will participate in the parliamentary control. These are: Mr. Grozdan Karadjov with one question; Minister Asena Serbenova with two questions; Minister Ivan Ivanov with two questions; Minister Sabev, as he has an urgent commitment, will not take part in the control; Minister Boyko Rashkov has 16 questions and only then is Minister Genchovska. Mr. Georgiev, I'm not sure there will be a chance for us to get to her. To the Minister of Justice, Nadejda Yordanova also has one question, as long as we can get to her. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kabak, the Road Infrastructure Agency is looking at the possibility of including the 10km section of Republican Road III 379 Caves In previous years, no technical project has been developed to repair the third-class road and this is the main reason why it cannot be included in this year's investment programme. After validating the investment programme for next year, it will be possible to say with absolute certainty whether it will enter this programme. Depending on what means this programme will be secured in the budget for next year, we will be able to include it in the design of a technical project for major repairs, and this is the first and mandatory stage for the taking up of quality construction works. The project will define precisely the specific repair and reconstruction activities that need to be undertaken, the estimated value of the construction works and their implementation period. Upon completion of the project procedures under the Public Procurement Act will be conducted for the selection of contractors of construction and construction supervision. Depending on the duration of these two GOP procedures, this construction can accordingly happen to start in the summer or autumn of next year. If there are appeals and lengthy procedures, which is also an adverse outcome, it can go for 2024. The purpose of the main repairs will be to improve the transport-service qualities and carry the efficiency of the road pavement, to ensure the safety of movement and drainage of the road and of the road body. Until the main repair of road III-379 is started, it will be cared for through the current maintenance program. This year, there was already a patching of the asphalt flooring. Activities to improve traffic conditions will also be implemented throughout the construction season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u71	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Mrs. Kabak, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u72	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is really important that the road is included in the investment programme to carry out the repair of the section in question, because this is the only road link from and to the villages Nova pendulum and Fotinovo. The section is really narrow and steep, with multiple sharp turns and lack of visibility. During winter, cars often find themselves in the riverbed because of the lack of boards. On a daily basis, this road section is used by a very large number of residents of Pazardzhik district, but in this type there are an extremely large number of prerequisites for road accidents. We really hope that as soon as possible this repair and road restraint will already be in place.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u73	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? You don't want to. We move on to the questions to Minister of Health Asena Serbenova. The first question is from the MPs Miroslav Ivanov and Kristian Vigenin about the construction of a new hospital complex in Yambol. Mr. Vigenin, are you going to ask the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, dear colleagues! This is far from the first question we have asked about the new hospital complex in Yambol for years now. The topic was initially in the public eye in Yambol region and for some time became a national issue. You know that the main leaders of the political formations represented today in the National Assembly spoke on this topic. One of the requests of the Prime Minister Kiril Petkov himself was also with the opening of the National Assembly in this form, in this composition of the National Assembly, in the 40th and seventh National Assembly, the care for the problems that were inherited in the healthcare system, and specifically regarding the Yambol hospital. Over the years, the project has been started, stopped. Especially in the last few years during the management of GERB in practice it had become a pit in which funds ran out without being able to come to a real and final result. After all, its construction was again launched in 2021, but it turned out that a number of problems had been inherited, which practically blocked the work again. I can say that it took really serious efforts both on your team and on the MPs. Here I would especially like to distinguish the commitment of the current President of the National Assembly Miroslav Ivanov, in that the nodes that were tied up and which prevented the realization of this project from being untied. Nevertheless, the subject continues to be the subject of all kinds of speculation, including political and local soil in Yambol. So we decided with colleague Miroslav Ivanov to ask you a question: at what stage is the construction of the hospital complex; what are the indicative deadlines for completion of the project; is there also a nature of problem issues that are to be resolved, and what actions has the Ministry of Health taken in this regard for the time of last year so that we can finally congratulate ourselves with the final realization of this project and ensure that citizens of Yambol and neighbouring areas will have quality health care, a new hospital that will be attractive for both doctors and patients, and ensure that in the 21st century there will be a hospital of XXI and of XIX century? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u75	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mrs. Serbenova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u76	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vigenin, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ministry of Health has taken action to provide funds from the state budget for the completion of a new hospital complex at St. Panteleimon Hospital, Yambol. By Decision No 266 of 9 May 2019, as amended by Decision No 805 of 27 December 2019, the Council of Ministers agreed to increase the capital of the hospital hospital for the period 2020. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. BGN, planned by years as follows: for 2020 This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. And 500,000. BGN, for 2021 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. And 400,000. BGN, for 2022 This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. And 100,000. lv. In 2020 on the account of St. Panteleimon Hospital, Yambol and Yambol AD, money of 13 million were transferred. And 500,000. BGN representing the monetary contribution for 2020 and the same amount in the following year was made and the corresponding increase in the capital of the company, which was entered in the Commercial Register on 1 March 2021. The funds provided for 2021 and 2022 shall be included in the total amount of the approved funds under art. 15, para. 1 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 for the acquisition of shares, shares and participations of 33 million. And 500,000. BGN, as well as an increase in the capital of the hospital hospital hospital has been allocated funds of 13 million. And 500,000. lv. Therefore, the amount of 13 million. And 500,000. lv. was transferred to the medical establishment on 22 June 2022. According to the information provided by the medical institution, it is currently signed and has entered into force Contract for the construction of construction works with subject "Do construction of a hospital complex at St. Panteleimon Hospital " Yambol" AD, Yambol city. The construction of the site started on 5 March 2021 and the planned construction funds amounted to 26 million with VAT allocated in three financing stages. At present, the implementation of construction is entrusted only at the first stage. At this stage, construction works worth 11 million were carried out. 505 thousand. BGN 293. with VAT, which includes preparatory works, basic construction works, steel and steel structures and elements, installations and others. From the initial stage of construction we have been informed that there are problems related to part "Fire safety" and to the delivery of medical equipment and furniture, which has required an update of the project in the part "Fire safety" and preparation of an investment plan for providing medical equipment and furniture. Currently, the problem of the Fire Safety Unit is solved and an order to supplement the building permit has been issued. From the medical establishment pay attention that the construction works are directly dependent and technologically connected with the delivery of medical equipment and furniture of the site. The company also pays attention to the lack of funding for the supply of medical equipment and furniture, as well as the need to update the estimates regarding construction works and other activities to take account of the inflation processes in the Republic of Bulgaria. Dear Mr. Vigenin and Mr. Ivanov! I assure you that the Ministry of Health is doing everything necessary to address the challenges, as you have defined them, on the construction of the new hospital building in Yambol and the effective spending of financial resources so that this key health project can be successfully completed for the region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u77	Thank you, Minister Serbenova. Mr. Ivanov, a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. It does reflect events as I have myself tracked them down for those just over 7 months. For this period, we have actually been in constant communication with Mr. Vigenin, both with the management of the hospital complex in Yambol and with your office. For these 7 months on my initiative and on the initiative of Mr. Vigenin, we have indeed held numerous meetings with you personally and with your team so that we can resolve the problems that have arisen during the course of the work. They weren't really one and two, and they really needed a lot of expertise and potential to overcome them. This shows that the problems actually incurred or incurred during the implementation of this contract for the construction of a new hospital complex were of a serious nature and imposed an intervention of the highest expert level in the face of the experts of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Interior, specifically in the part of the Fire Safety, for which you said that this problem has already been resolved. Indeed, it is. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you personally for always responding to our calls for dialogue, for joint and cooperative work. I would also like to thank my colleague Mr Vigenin for always having a good dialogue with him and looking in the same direction, which is in the interests of the citizens of Yambol, so that they can actually have a medical facility available in the 21st century that meets their needs, which meets the requirements, criteria and standards for a hospital and hospital aid to be provided in the 21st century. I believe that we will continue with joint efforts to move this project forward, to help the management of the Yambol hospital overcome the obstacles that arise, and ultimately all citizens can actually benefit from one quality health care. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the opportunity for a duplicate, Minister Serbenova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Vigenin, Dear Mr. Ivanov, Ladies and Gentlemen of the National Assembly! I would also like to thank you for the numerous meetings we had with you, with Mr. Vigenin, with Mr. Ivanov, with the management of the hospital. The fact that we have moved forward in the project has shown what really means by the people's chosen because to me MPs are people's chosen from a particular region to think about the region; and how any turbulence of a political nature retreats when it comes to health care. So thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u81	Thank you, Minister Serbenova. Let us hope that this concern will work. We move on to the next issue by the MP Radoslav Vassilev, about taking measures after a signal and a report on problems related to the state of the Emergency Medical Philariat in Radnevo to the Center for Emergency Medical Assistance - Stara Zagora. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Mr Minister, colleagues! My question is related to the health care in Radnevo municipality, and in particular to the state of the Emergency Medical Philariat. The problem lies in the fact that the Philial is located in the building of the Hospital "Doctor Dimitar Chakmakov" in Radnevo, which was municipal, but sold to a private investor after a declaration of actual bankruptcy and after an investigation for the draining of public funds began. Repair activities have been initiated in the Philariat, which have been suspended, and there is uncertainty about their completion. With effect from 2017, the use contract is for 10 years, but the new owner may not continue under the same conditions and arrangements. In this respect, it is necessary to provide an appropriate building. At what stage does she think about re-assigning the Philial for emergency medical care? There is also an urgent office missing at the moment. The ambulance team travels to the nearest one located 30 km away in the town of Stara Zagora. I have received signals from citizens that they had to wait for emergency services between an hour and an hour and a half. Does this require the opening of a second team or an emergency cabinet? I believe that in a municipality with a population of more than 17 thousand people, in the territory of which is located the largest mining company...................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u83	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Vassilev! I am providing you with information on the two questions you have raised. The first one. The hospital is a municipal medical establishment, a commercial company with the sole owner of the capital of Radnevo Municipality and the rights of one are exercised by the Municipal Council. In connection with the large investment project implemented by the Ministry of Health "Support for the development of the emergency medical care system" under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020" (for the needs of the site) which you are quoting "Radnevo," the hospital has established for the benefit of the Ministry a free right of use for a period of 10 years on a part of the building, which is located on the first floor of the municipal medical establishment. By letter No 94-3311 of 26 May 2021, the Ministry of Health informed the Mayor of Radnevo Municipality and the President of the Municipal Council that, under the order of the Hospital of Radnevo, they should comply with the relevant regulations, taking into account also that implemented by the Ministry of Health and the existence of the rights established in this connection. During the implementation of a grant contract, a procedure for the selection of a contractor under the order of the Emergency Medical Assistance System was announced for the period I quoted, funded by Operational Program "Regions in Growth" with subject: "Execution of construction works for the needs of the emergency structures in the territory of the South East Region" with several positions. Under position No 3 a contractor has been selected to perform construction and installation works at Radnevo's Emergency Medical Philariat and Contract No 11-560 of 11 November 2020 has been concluded with Cossoveks. Construction works start with Act 2 of 9 September 2021. On 11 January this year, Act 10 has ceased construction works for technical reasons, expressed in the construction of external electrical connections. On 18 April 2022, the Ministry of Health received a letter from Radnevo Municipality informing us that on 13 September 2021 a contract was concluded to sell 100% of the capital of Radnevo Hospital. The terms of the contract concluded provide for the new owner to maintain existing rental relationships between the privatisation company and the Ministry of Health. As you know, on your initiative was held a meeting of the alternate deputy minister Dr. Gribnev, with the regional governor of Stara Zagora and with the director of CSM Stara Zagora to discuss this extremely important issue. A meeting with the mayor of Radnevo municipality and the new owner of the building is also planned to discuss the option of voluntary donation of the premises provided for the Philial so that these construction works can be successfully completed. Regarding the second question, if I do not have the time, I will add. The needs of the population of available outpatient and hospital care are defined and planned, you know, on a territorial principle through the National Health Card. On this basis, the structure of the health network is adapted and the effective and fair use of resources is planned. This map of emergency assistance is an element of the National Health Card and it contains the number and location of the structures of emergency medical care. According to this methodology, which is currently active, 27 emergency medical centers in accordance with the administrative centers in Bulgaria have been revealed and there are 198 branches, 5 exported teams and emergency wards in hospital care facilities. Emergency assistance activities are regulated by laws and regulations that are part of the legal framework, and I will not list now so as not to aggravate my response, and the activities of the CSM are regulated in the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the Emergency Medical Centers. That is, this is the legal framework in which we are governed when we define a necessity. According to Annex No 35 to point 1 (8) of the Emergency Medical Card, 9 branches have been opened at the Emergency Medical Center. There are such in Stara Zagora, Kazanlak, Radnevo, Chirpan, Muglige, Gurkovo, Pavel Banya, Galabovo and Daskalovi Brothers. The Radnevo branch serves 25 settlements with a total population as of 31 December 2021. 17 404 residents. Six doctors, six health care professionals, six drivers and one orderly are working in the field. The teams have two ambulances. On shift work a medical team which includes a doctor, a health care specialist and an ambulance driver. The average workload of the teams from January 2021 to now has prepared my colleagues in the response, perhaps to save it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u85	Maybe in the back a little more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u86	Yeah, in the back. However, for example, the average workload in December 2021 was 1.7 patients served for a 12-hour shift and for May 2022. It's 1.6. In other words, the average workload so far does not imply the formation of an additional mobile team. There have been no complaints from the residents of Radnevo for a rejected, untimely or poorly carried out visit for this period, but if you have them, you can provide them to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers! Thank you, Madam Minister, for the rapid reaction and that all the authorities have been asked in the mayor's face, and the governor of the district is also aware, and the director of the CSM, as it requires all efforts to find a solution both in relation to the emergency cabinet and the relocation of the emergency office. Thank you again for your response.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u89	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Do you want a hole? No. Thank you. That concludes our questions to the Minister of Health. Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova, for participating in the parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Minister of Agriculture. The first one is from the MPs Petar Kulenski, Ivaylo Shotev and Alexander Dunchev on carrying out verification and taking action in relation to the non-opening of quarries for extraction of inert materials on the Golaka hill in the land of the village of Vetren dol, the municipality of Septemvri, Pazardzhik district. You have the floor, Mr. Kullensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u90	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! During a meeting with residents of the village of Vetren dol, I and colleague Ivaylo Shotev were informed of a problem related to the upcoming opening of a quarry for extraction of inert materials, and people spoke different for their kind of reasons. In general, they were of a healthy nature, preserving the clean air, drinking water, food, soil, also forest ecosystems and landscapes located in the area, and last but not least, the agricultural livelihood of the people, as the village of Vetren dol is located in the Upper Thracian lowland. Additional concerns the residents of the village of Vetren dol fed from the fact that the permission to study the existence of the relevant natural resources was given to a company owned by the mother of the mayor of September. On 8 April 2022, an initiative committee from the village of Vetren Dol sent a letter to a number of institutions, including the Ministry of Agriculture, and at this stage there was a negative opinion from the Ministry of Health on the continuation of concession actions. Recently, on our question of parliamentary control, we received such a negative opinion from the Ministry of Culture, which told us that all activities should be stopped because nothing has been done to preserve cultural and historical heritage in the region. So our question is: has the Ministry of Agriculture carried out an inspection in relation to the actions and procedures for extraction of inert materials on the Golaka hill in the land of the village of Vetren dol, the municipality of September, Pazardzhik district? Does the Ministry of Agriculture intend to take follow-up action and support the non-compliance and cessation of extraction procedures for the particular site? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u91	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable gentlemen Kulinski, Shotev and Dunchev! The Ministry of Agriculture received a file with entry No AO-42 of 27 May 2021 with a request from the Ministry of Agriculture 2014-2020 Ltd. for temporary use for a period of six months for the realization of the site "Study of underground property" construction materials, in area of the area of the village of Vetren dol, municipality of Septemvri, Pazardzhik district. The file shall contain authorisation No 523 of 13 December 2019 to the Minister of Energy, issued on the basis of Decision under this Decision. 22 of Protocol No 31 of a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 24 July 2019 and of a Treaty of 21 May 2020, concluded between the Minister of Energy and 2, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on Underground Treasures, in the area of the White Hammer located in the land of the village of Vetren dol, the municipality of Septemvri, with a period of the permission one year after the entry into force of a positive act assessing the compatibility of the overall work project, issued by a competent authority under the order of art. 31 of the Biodiversity Act and the Regulation on the conditions and procedures for carrying out an environmental assessment of the compatibility of plans, programmes, projects and investment proposals with the subject-matter and objectives of conservation of protected areas. In view of the permission granted for a study issued to Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agriculture-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agriculture-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-Agro-A-Agro-Agro-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-Agro-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A- 59a, para. 1 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, note " by Decision No KZZ "11 of 29 June 2021, p. For agricultural land 230, temporary use of up to 6 months of 1910 sq. is permitted. m agricultural land, ninth category, municipal property, for the needs of m, kava, area 360 sq. m and an experimental quarry with an area of 200 sq. (b) Part of land properties with identifiers 10851.16.3, 10851.16.4, 10851.16.5, 10851.16.6 and 10851.16.7 on the cadastral map and the cadastral registers of the village of Vetren dol, stating that after the expiry of the period the company should remove the facilities and return the land to its original form or in a form suitable for agricultural use. It is necessary to note that according to the requirements of art. 59b, para. 3, p. 4 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land in the case file are presented a positive opinion issued by the Minister of Environment and Water, with ex. No NSPB-287 of 8 July 2020, on the overall working project for the study of underground construction materials, in area of the White Hammer, village of Vetren dol, municipality of Septemvri. In the light of the documents attached to the file, including the Treaty of 21 May 2020, concluded on the basis of Authorisation No 523 of 13 December 2019 between the Minister of Energy and Agroculture 2014 No 81 of 11 March 2021 for the reimbursable provision of the property and Decision No 477 of 26 February 2021 of the Municipal Council of September, the authorisation for temporary use, as referred to in Decision 230 of the Commission for Agricultural Land is given in compliance with all the provisions of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, respectively the Rules for its Implementation. I should inform you that no proposal has been submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture at the moment by the Ministry of Agriculture for a change in the use of agricultural land for non-farming needs under art. 24, para. 2 in relation to the provision of art. 17a, para. 3 of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, under which a concession contract is carried out to change the purpose of agricultural land for non-agricultural needs without a procedure for validation of a site or design route. In order to carry out a procedure for changing the purpose in these cases, it is necessary to meet in advance the following requirements: to have an authorisation, respectively, concluded a concession contract for the extraction of construction materials, the dignitaries, and a positive opinion of the relevant regional environmental and water inspection and, last but not least, to provide a document certifying the right of ownership of the concessionaire in the scope of the property subject to the request for change of purpose. In the case of required documents, the Commission on agricultural land shall be the authority competent to rule on changing the purpose of agricultural land affected by the concession contract, where appropriate and the legality, taking into account expressed public discontent, as well as the legislation in force in the Republic of Bulgaria. The same applies to requests/claims for changing the use of land properties in forest areas for the extraction of underground riches. In the event that an existing concession contract under the Law on Underground Treasures will affect forest areas, the change of purpose may only take place after the entry into force of a detailed development plan drawn up and approved in accordance with the Law on Construction in the Area and under the existence of an administrative act by the competent environmental authority under the Law on Environmental Protection and the Biological Diversity Act. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that from the information in the register of mining concessions published on the website of the Ministry of Energy, there is no open information on the area of Golaka for a contract for the provision of concession for the extraction of underground riches under the Law on Underground wealth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I've given you more time in the hope that you'll be shorter in the back. Here's a line for you, Mr. Dunchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u94	Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, thank you for your position and answer on the question of the village of Vetren Dol. Based on it, we have the next question and commentary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u95	Just to say, Mr. Dunchev, that in this procedure of questioning you have no further questions, you can make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u96	My line is this: we would not have asked the question if you had answered within the two-month period of the people of Vetren Dol. We hope that this will not happen again so that they can fight their battle, but only when we need to join the MPs. Secondly, I can point out that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Culture have already stood and supported the people of Vetren Dol, expressing their views that this concession idea of exploration and extraction of career materials is contrary to the archaeological rules and contrary to the conditions for protecting people's health and have expressed a position against continuing mining activities. With regard to agriculture, you have a useful move that we recommend you study and develop. First, see if it has been rebuilt, with one inspection, agricultural land according to the Commission's decisions on agricultural land.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And the second thing is that these territories, the vast majority of them, are already forests according to the inventory of the Forest Agency. You have the opportunity to protect people's interest by proceeding the compulsory transfer from agricultural territories to forest areas of all forested territories. They're 30-year-old deciduous forests. It is unlikely that the municipality will allow itself to cut them down, so we have a great chance to protect them as forest territories, which makes it much more difficult to change their purpose and transfer them to a career purpose. These are our calls to you. If you want to join the Minister of Health and the Minister of Culture to protect the interests of the people of Vetren Dol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u97	Thank you, Mr. Dunchev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u98	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My hole is this. If you were in the Ministry during the period I quoted, I am talking specifically about Mr. Dunchev, and you had paid attention to this concession, you would not be asking me this question now, giving me this study, because you have probably given a personal positive opinion in this direction, since you yourself said that there are such forest territories are already reversed. Most likely the Forest Agency was dealing with this case. To date, we have no request for extension of the study. In that case, we also do not have the commitment to answer the questions asked. Now I use the tribune to say, once again, to confirm that we did not have the Ministry, the request for such research, respectively, and to answer that we will not give. When he does, we'll give the answer accordingly. I believe that this will not be done, and accordingly an appropriate inspection will be ordered, but I say again, if you hadn't closed your eyes to this thing then, you wouldn't be asking me that question now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We are now moving on to a question from MP Michal Kambarev about the lack of anti-urban protection in Smolyan region. But he's gone. You're late in control today. So thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control, Mr. Minister. We move on to the questions to Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov. The first question is from Mr. Anastasov, whom I do not see in the room. The next one's from Mr. Sadakov. Here you are, Mr. Saddakov, regarding actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. I read them once, they all have that title. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u100	Thank you. Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Minister for Retire, honourable Members! My question to you, Minister, is about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. During the election campaign for the parliamentary elections on 11 July 2021 in the village of Pamidovo, Lesichovo municipality, Pazardzhik district, Mr. Todor Yordanov, Chairman of the Local Council of the Ministry of Rights and Freedoms in the village of Pamidovo, there is a draft and signed warning protocol. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions: on what legal basis and what is the presence of sufficient data to draw up a warning protocol? Has the prosecution been informed and what further action has been taken on the case described? I note that the questions asked are related to possible unlawful actions by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Questions do not affect the personal rights or interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u101	Thank you, Mr. Sadakov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I can't answer that for one simple reason. What is the specific expression of action, pressure or harassment? We in law are very punctual, aren't we, college girl Desislava Atanasova, you know, she's our student, she's graduated from law school, that every concept, every word has some meaning. And in order to apply the law, we need to know what is involved and what is put into these two words, pressure and harassment, is this physical harassment, is the pressure what it is, is it mentally, what it is, what they have expressed themselves in? And for this reason I cannot answer the question there is or there is no exertion of pressure and harassment. Secondly, from what you ask, further on what happened, the conclusion that you have also learned by heart, as a poem, perhaps you are saying that these are violations of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. The possible violations of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior are not investigated, examined here in the Chamber of the National Assembly. I have said it many times that such investigations, such checks are carried out by the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office under the Code of Criminal Procedure. You cannot ask the Minister of Interior for information which concerns the competence of another state body of the independent judiciary. On this point, I can answer only one part of it, and which is perfectly logical, of course, you are asking on what legal basis a warning protocol is drawn up. The legal basis for drawing up a warning protocol, as in dozens of other cases that you are asking about here for several months, is art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act. There's no other reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u103	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Sadakov. After all, there is a slightly more free language in plenary than in the courtroom, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister of Retire, colleagues! The formalisation of the answers to all the questions we have raised does not help to clarify in every single case what happened, because this is not the question of Hayri Sadakov. This is the question through Hayri Sadakov of the citizen concerned, of everyone who knows the person himself, and everyone who knows how it works and what it works, so formalization in no way helps us. I will ask an additional question, which applies to the next question perhaps. In carrying out his duties, after an alert has been issued, for which we do not have any information about Mr. Yordanov, is the Regional Election Commission familiar before that? Are they aware that there is such a signal and then has the inspection been carried out once they are aware? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u105	Thank you, Mr. Sadakov. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? [[Reply from Minister Boyko Rashkov.]] I'm guessing for this guy, and the second one is from Mr. Sadakov. I guess it's another case... If you wish, Mr. Sadakov, the Minister has the right to give up the backdrop, so I give you the floor for the second question you have on him. Perhaps in the reply of the second or in the back will clarify both cases in particular. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister for Retire, honourable Members! The answer to the second question will be the same. If I'm gonna get an answer like that and it's not gonna be answered to my line, maybe I shouldn't ask it at all then?! In fact, what I asked in the reply also applies to the case, which will now put your attention to action and pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign on election day. During the election campaign for the parliamentary elections on 11 July 2021 in Pazardzhik municipality, Pazardzhik district, Mr. Sasho Angelov is an activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the town of Pazardzhik, there is a draft and signed warning protocol on the same basis and the same intention. My question is: on what legal basis is there sufficient data to draw up a warning protocol? Has the prosecution been informed and what further action has been taken on the case described? Let me ask my second question. Has the election committee been informed that there was an alert, are they aware of what happened next?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u107	Thank you, Mr. Sadakov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! One thought came to mind that the question was asked on behalf of the citizen through the MP to the Minister of Interior. Okay, if we assume that somewhere there are actions directed against one person, against one citizen, who for one reason or another have troubled him, we can comment on something in this regard.................... what are the reasons, and so on and so forth. But I, Mr. Sadakov, have no information and in the Regional Directorate of Interior in Pazardzhik there is no information that this citizen you are asking about has a warning protocol drawn up under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act. And now, it seems to me that, since there is no such protocol open, on which all your inquiries are based to the Home Secretary, whom you always associate with pressure and harassment, if there is a protocol, it may be on the line of the DMV, but it is harassment and pressure. It doesn't matter politics, election campaign, it's understandable to all citizens. Whether there is real control here or not is not so important, the important thing is that we are in an election campaign, and it is also visible from the hall it is half empty, only you are on duty here in the Chamber. So I still want some clarification so I can answer the question. How do you know that a warning protocol has been drawn up to put this question to me from the platform of parliament, and there is no such protocol drawn up? From now on, do whatever interpretations you want, but let's step on a document that we can discuss together. You don't have one in this case. Where's the protocol? Was it one of you last week, or did the other one pull out a protocol, even though I didn't have one? [[DPS lines.]] Yeah, yeah, I haven't forgotten, and I'll tell you what it's about. You have a question, we will also pay attention to you, we will not ignore you in the table. So, give me, please, a specific question: what do you mean by pressure and harassment, in case there is no protocol drawn up at all? What do you mean by pressure and harassment? Come on, I'll talk when you explain this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u109	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Sadakov. Two questions are next from Dimitar Avramov, but I do not see him in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u110	Dear Mr. Rashkov, this is the second time I have to remind you that you are in the Chamber of Parliament and before you are standing MPs. You don't have to wave your finger and raise your voice. As you can see, we speak a normal language, we ask about things that are relevant and important. In fact, if we are in an election campaign, for you are resigning now, today, if you remember the issues on this subject of pressure and harassment, have been put by the DPS for a long time now, I don't think we were in an election campaign at that time. Now if we assume that's true, then no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u111	Thank you, Mr. Sadakov. Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u112	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of Parliament, as you can see, parliamentary control has degenerated from a political party in exporting false facts from the platform of parliament. And whether it's an election campaign or not, it's election time, and we've come across such issues that don't give birth to any actual facts long before this election time begins. So you're doing your ad here, given the choices ahead, asking questions about non-existent facts. If you think this is the real policy that awaits the Bulgarian society, continue this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u113	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. This is the assessment of the Members of the National Assembly. [[National Representative Sezgin Mehmed wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] Do not feel obliged to respond to every line from the Minister there are questions, answers. Did they personally offend you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u115	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u116	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is entirely with you. I would like you to remind the resigned minister that parliamentary control is indicated in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly and we have not delivered this procedure, but the Minister has delivered the Ministry of Interior and instead of dealing with the incriminating of criminal groups and catching them, they are engaged in a political campaign.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u117	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. I think that in any case there is something to discuss both the MPs and the parliamentary groups in terms of control. We're moving on. As I said, I don't see Mr. Avramov in the room, if he comes back, we can go back to the questions. Then there are two questions from Mr. Atalay, whom I also do not see, and we come to the questions from the People's Representative Mumun Mumun. Here you are, Mr. Mumeun, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister of the Interior in resignation! Mr. Chairman, you read the title, I'll save myself reading the title and I don't really know where to start, wondering how Mr. Rashkov has-no two issues managed to somehow change the mood in the room. No one's standing here with the idea of picking a fight, but we're asking specific questions. The fact that the cases are in many settlements in Bulgaria and we are MPs from different regions, and we meet each weekend with these people, and we hear from them every day, and we are asked these questions, and we know the cases and we have described them, and we have set them up, does not mean that we should stop, Mr. Minister, if you have become uncomfortable, and please do not talk about the approach of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. You won't understand this far, we don't need advertising, especially on these subjects...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u119	Get to the point, Mr. Mumun.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u120	I put it to the point, the minister doesn't want to answer, he doesn't like to hear the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u121	So ask a specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u122	I'll ask him, I think I have a little more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u123	You have 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u124	Nevertheless, in order to protect the rights of this citizen, to whom the same is happening, I ask my question with regard to Mr. Sunay Ibrahim Kadir, who is the mayor of the DPS in the village of Gorni Glavak, Madzharovo Municipality, Haskovo District. He's got a protocol drawn up in the same way. And my question is: on what grounds, Minister, do you find it unpleasant? I expect an answer, if I may, to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u125	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. If there's a protocol, you'll get it. Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Whoever Minister comes here, if he knows the laws of the state in which your questions are practically, he will have to answer you in the same way as I answer you. [[DPS lines.]] Whatever's in the question, that's what you'll get as an answer. I have said many times that your questions have been made on a Xerox in no way in order to protect the rights of citizens in our country. [[DPS lines.]] So whether or not it is about this person you ask about, the question is raised in the same way, and we do not have any evidence that this person is being pressured and harassed. Present Factology in this direction so there is an object to comment on. You are throwing from the parliamentary tribune a naked statement and you think you will make a grand policy. That's not how this is gonna work! Give the data, and if there is such data, do not even carry it here, but carry it directly to the prosecution, which is competent to investigate illegal acts of police authorities. If they committed a crime, that's where these materials belong, not here. That is why I say that parliamentary control is born in advertising before the elections. There is something else here, but as far as I know, you are 99% economists and financiers in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, but I would like to stress that in law every word matters, otherwise there will be many innocently convicted people. Would you please tell me what you know so that I can answer you, of course, to complete your question, quite kindly, I am telling you. I am not annoyed by this, I would like to answer what you mean by the notion of forced to sign a protocol, because coercion is a self-inflicted crime against the person in the particular part of the Penal Code. When you ask me specifically, I will be able to answer you. So blanquet and abstract is impossible to get a specific answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u127	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Mummyun.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, in essence, to try to explain, to recreate what it means to be forced. At that moment imagine a village with very few living people in the settlement and the person who is committed to organizing the electoral process, and is also a member, an activist and sympathizer of a political party. This man has been interrogated for hours alone in the center of the settlement. When he's given the signing protocol, it's coercion, Mr. Minister. You speak only as a lawyer, we ask you questions as the head of this large organization.................................................................................................. I'm telling you, it's a matter of sense. You ask what pressure and harassment means when you feel that you are being pressured and bullied by uniformed people. Not everyone can face uniformed people in this country freely. Understand that there are people who are worried about this thing. Some people in this country have not met uniformed people in many years. The feeling is my answer to you, and that's when it's forced you to sign what they give you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u129	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is how the authorities of the Ministry of Interior work not only in Bulgaria, but throughout the world. Even the options for obtaining information in the relevant structures of the internal ministries around the world are much more diverse than in our country, because there the society itself is more developed to react when it sees something that is not right and informs who the person who can immediately respond and take appropriate treatment. It's the same in our country. We all understand that you are not pleased with this, that someone can call 112 that someone can call an internal phone in the respective department of the Ministry of Interior and announce that in the election period, for example, certain individuals are preparing or carrying out actions that could be taken as actions against citizens' political rights. There is nothing more natural for the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to react. There is political pluralism in our country. There is not only a Movement for Rights and Freedoms, there are over 200 parties in total and 300 parties in every other party, if it understands that we do not react when signals are received about a Movement for Rights and Freedoms, it will accuse the Ministry of Interior that it does not look alike as a depoliticized body of the behaviour of individual citizens. That can't be allowed. The legal state does not allow such divisions of parties that want almost immunity, especially their supporters or their members, sympathizers and so on. That's not democratic, that's totalitarian. Specifically on the case. Just one thing I'm going to tell you is that a signal has actually been received against this person you're asking about from the parliamentary tribune. The employees of the Ministry of Interior reacted as if they were a common signal. So there is nothing by chance, and the human sense of yes, of course, we are people, someone may, upon the appearance of the police officer, take it calmly, because he will bring order. In fact, a police officer in uniform is expected to show up where it is needed, if he does not appear, there are also public concerns, and others, when the uniformed officer shows up, worry, sometimes worry because they are guilty. That's all the kids understand. That's the job of the Ministry of Interior. He watches for the protection of public order, and when a crime is reported, whatever it is, not only against the political rights of citizens, he is obliged to appear there, so taxpayers have also appointed a reward for these people. You want them not to work, it's not gonna happen. And as for the fact that for years some have not seen all Bulgarian citizens know very well that years ago the authorities of the Ministry of Interior did not care at all whether you buy or sell votes or not and that is why they have not seen police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MP Bajram Bajram. Here you go, Mr. Bayram.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Retire Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just a few minutes ago, you said that in Bulgaria and in the National Assembly there are not only DPS and there are 200 more parties. I would just like to refresh your memory a little from the coming of democracy in the Republic of Bulgaria A movement for rights and freedoms is a pillar in the Bulgarian Parliament and will continue to be a pillar in the Bulgarian Parliament. We will continue to fight for Bulgarian democracy. Many ministers have passed from the governments in the Republic of Bulgaria and you have counted the days. [[Replication by Minister Boyko Rashkov: I will leave the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u133	You see, it's a little more free to talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u134	We can see that. You said that thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u135	It's time to get to the point. Mr. Rashkov, I suggest you come back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u136	Good day, Mr. Rashkov. We see that Mr. Rashkov is evaluating the government and his work as Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u137	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Have a seat. Mr. Bajram, given that the Minister is not in the Chamber, I think this is unprecedented and I am not sure how to react, except to give some time off.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u138	Give it a rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u139	You can continue, Mr. Bajram, with your specific question now, because your introduction was still a little longer and there was no connection with parliamentary control. [[Mister Rashkov enters the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u140	My introduction was a little longer and for Mr. Rashkov's words. His words had nothing to do with Mr. Mumeun's line, and for that reason I continue. You, as chairman, should have made a remark to the Minister of the Interior...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u141	I did it to him, and now I'm doing it to you. Get to the point, because we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u142	The issue is about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign on election day. We can probably get an answer that this is a template question. If that is the answer, I would like to make one clarification. If the answer is stenciled, then the police's actions were stenciled.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u143	Give me the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u144	The case is: during the election campaign for parliamentary elections on 11 July 2021 in the village of Georgi Damyanovo, municipality of Georgi Damyanovo, Montana District, Mr. Petar Tsvetanov Petrov, member of the Municipal Council of DPS in Georgi Damyanovo, has signed a warning protocol. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions: on what legal basis and what is the presence of sufficient data to draw up a warning protocol? Has the prosecution been informed and what further action has been taken on the case described?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u145	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. Mr. Minister, in this case, do you have anything to say in your response?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My words have just been confirmed a while ago that the stand is not used for parliamentary control, and it is used for some other purpose, not to say what. On-call questions shall be used regardless of whether or not they relate to actual cases. The aim is only to show up here a representative of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, to talk about everything else, but not about it. If he talks about it, he speaks the same thing as they were told in the Democratic Party DPS, what exactly to ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u147	Mr. Rashkov, move on to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u148	That's what they're asking the same thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u149	We all know that's true.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u150	They do not do a word deviance from what is ordered to them by the democratic and liberal party.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u151	Let's get to the specific case.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u152	Of course, on this particular occasion, I would say that these words that we have just heard from Mr. Bajram's statement, I repeat, have nothing to do with reality. These are chaotic issues raised for another purpose, not for parliamentary control, but for one simple reason. The person you're asking for has no warning protocol at all. So let the Bulgarian citizens hear how parliamentary time is wasted in our country. If there is such a protocol, present it here, I'll do a check on it. I guarantee that thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u153	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like the word for a line, Mr. Bayram? Is this really the third case today that has no protocol, at least not registered with the Ministry of Interior? [[Reply from Minister Boyko Rashkov.]] Here you go, Mr. Bayram. Mr. Minister, don't come into this conversation. You have the floor, Mr. Bayram.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u154	Shablonon's response to the resignation minister as well. We see that the protocols given in one specimen are now normal for the Minister of Retire to say that there is no such protocol. That's perfectly normal. When we say from this tribune that you have brought back the dark times of the communist regime, then you are angry and sulking. You are the embodiment of the totalitarian regime. [[Replicates from Minister Boyko Rashkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u155	Mr. Bayram, let's not use qualifications and get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u156	As before 1989, no one was responsible for their actions, we see that the heirs of the communist regime continue to be not responsible for their actions during the election campaign for parliamentary elections. This is proof that you are the successor of this totalitarian regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u157	Mr. Bayram, I ask you to avoid such qualifications. [[Reply from DPS.]] Can we stop with these procedures now? I will give you the floor, but the truth is that in the process of parliamentary control in this House you abuse your rights as MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the contrary, we do not abuse our rights and I would ask you to remind the Interior Minister that this is the Bulgarian Parliament, this is not a kindergarten. The Home Secretary can't walk in and out whenever he wants and come here for a morning walk. When questions are asked, he will have to answer these questions rather than answer those he wants and those he likes. Please remind the Interior Minister that he is here to answer questions from colleagues asked by the DPS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u159	Thank you, Mr. Ali. I think that's why the Minister is here, but I remind you, Mr. Minister, that you must answer the questions. [[DPS lines.]] He went out and came back, though, before he became a precedent. Thank you for that. [[Mister Boyko Rashkov wants the back.]] You're usually entitled to the doppelganger. Shortly and then we move on. [[DPS lines.]] Well, as you abuse the procedure in the manner of conduct, the Minister can take the floor at any time. I can read to you. So he did the replica. Now he's doing the back of the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u160	Do you think I'm entitled to the doppelganger?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u161	Here you go, Mr. Rashkov. Let's move on to the other questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! If I choose cases where I answer questions about drawing up a warning protocol, and clarify or provide information about these two inputs... or there is a protocol or there is no protocol. If anyone doubts that I'm objectively and accurately explaining, I answer, they have to prove it. Such naked statements, please don't go from the parliamentary tribune, because I can easily disprove you. All this information I use here to answer your questions is first requested by the relevant Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. In such a way, so lightly because it really is not a kindergarten and should not be a kindergarten, but you lightly accuse the local regional directorates of home affairs that they assist the minister here to deliver false information. Let me see those protocols and I'll tell you if they're there or not. If I wanted not to clarify on the written protocols, I would in any case say there is no protocol. That was the easiest answer for me. Here, for several months, I answer all your questions very conscientiously, and where there are protocols, I explain why this protocol is drawn up. However, you, as this clearly does not interest you, are pursuing some other goals. Is it not objective and correct for our society, listening constantly to these bad authorities of the Ministry of Interior exert pressure and harassment on Bulgarian citizens, yet Bulgarian citizens to hear that in the region of Burgas, Malko Tarnovo, Montana, Pleven, Tvarditsa, Kotel, Sliven, Madan, Smolyan and others the court has issued judicial decisions, acts, sentences against individuals who bought and sold votes for and for the benefit of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. When will we hear from some MP from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Yes, we were buying. Here are the sentences, I have papers for that. [[Shows.]] Where are your claims and documents that illegal warning protocols have been drawn up? They're gone, of course. Especially for the Montenegrin area, because you accuse me of general speaking and abstraction of answers, please, Mr. Chairman, give me time now to say something concrete because they want it. [[DPS lines.]] Pre-trial proceedings and now we don't have time because it doesn't suit you, don't you feel uncomfortable? Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u163	Mr. Rashkov, I'll give it to you. How long do you need?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u164	Pre-trial proceedings No. 1219 of 2021 according to the description of the District Department, Montana, was formed on November 14th, listen now to what is happening. On 14 November it was formed by the police authorities and on 29 November it was sent to the prosecution in Montana with the opinion of handing over a court of law to the person S.D.I. under art. 167, para. 2 of the Penal Code. It's just buying and selling votes. The proceedings ended with a penalty imposed at the District Court of Montana, 10 months in prison for this man. That is, people like you who are asking me now have led to a man being convicted of some pennies that you have probably given him for what he has served to sell votes in the name of a Movement for Rights and Freedoms. If you continue in this incorrect style to behave in this Chamber, for today I have prepared 15 cases that I will read from the stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u165	Mr. Rashkov, you need to comment on the specific question and answer accordingly and whether there is a direct link to this. This information you're exporting is not directly related to this matter, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u166	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u167	Wait a minute, wait a minute, stop the nerves! You challenge this discussion here, then you get angry about why there is such a discussion. I suggest we focus on specific issues. If there is no protocol, you say that there is no protocol and we move on to the next question, because otherwise there is a general political discussion, which really is not the meaning of parliamentary control, which is designed in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and the responsibility for this is not only for the Minister, colleagues. So I ask you to really focus from now on on on specific questions, specific answers, and the other debate about this has or is not buying votes, I think it's not right here right now. And in the end, responsibility is individual on these charges, respectively sentences. It is possible that some of them are more in relation to a particular party, to a particular party, but it should not be suggested from the stand that this party is, in principle, the main, how to say, buyer and vote seller. Tell now you in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u168	During your words, Mr. Chairman, the question was related to Petar Tsvetanov Petrov, not the initials S., I do not remember the second initial of the family. Please remind the resigning minister that this tribune should not be used for suggestion and let him return in his final days and answer specific questions, rather than making suggestions from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u169	We get it, Mr. Bayram. Accordingly, the Minister complains that you are making suggestions that every issue is about pressure and harassment, which obviously is hardly any case. But it's complicated, which is why you get these emotions on both sides. The next question is from Mr. Hakke I don't see it. Then there are two questions from Mrs. Mehmedova, which I also do not see, and then a question from Mr. Weyselov and he is gone. Mr. Mehmet, come in for your question. I provide Mr. Atanasov's leadership, I hope he'll do better than I do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u170	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Minister for Retire, honourable Members! There is no way we have not been able to come up with a little of the questions asked lately, as it is the activities of the Ministry of Interior, and we are comparing each activity to what is happening. Particularly from the news lately, we see that the Ministry of Interior is absent and officials of the Ministry of Interior are doing their best. We have repeatedly signaled from this tribune, alarmed that what is happening to the employees of the Ministry of Interior is not what they should be doing. And a bright memory of the girls who died in Sofia the other day, and of all those who died from the inactions of the Ministry of Interior. Mr. Minister, you may not be answering my question, but you should know that on every corner of which something like this has happened, we see your portrait because the Ministry of Interior instead of dealing with...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u171	Can you develop the specific question? You're deviating.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u172	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. I'm really finishing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u173	Specifically, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u174	Yeah, I'm specifically asking the question. Because, instead of doing his job, they are engaged in political activities...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u175	Because he's a politician. I asked you specifically, you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u176	...and makes people in the settlements get up and squat and look for disabled people. My specific question is related to the region of Vratsa and Mr. Borislav Banchev, who was forced to sign such a warning protocol. Mr. Borislav Banchev is the regional chairman of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the region of Vratsa and he, on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, is organizing the elections in this area. So, Minister, you have the right to answer me and not answer me in this way, but know that on every corner where such an accident occurred, I see your portrait.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u177	Look, what do accidents have to do with the election campaign?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u178	It has to do with the Ministry of Interior not doing his job.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u179	Please sit down. Here you are, Minister, and answer the specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u180	I don't know who the specific one is, he's talking nonsense.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u181	Please indicate for the Montana region a warning protocol of a specific person.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u182	I cannot say anything in particular and answer to Mr. National Representative who made an overview of the work of the Ministry of Interior under my supervision. You know, Mr. National Representative, there are many people who are very pleased with the work of the Ministry of Interior, and many political parties admire the fact that we stopped the final vote, which you were the main driver of last year, and there are a number of convicted people, because you pushed them into such criminal activity. [[DPS lines.]] A political party cannot afford the luxury of disregarding the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u183	Mr. Minister, I'm asking you specifically.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u184	I listened carefully to the general talk of the MP here at the beginning instead of asking me a specific question. No, there is no violation, dear Mr. MP, from the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. They did not exert illegal pressure and harassment on any Bulgarian citizen, and if you have such data, take them to where they will decide on competence. This isn't the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u185	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mehmet, you're entitled to a line. I hope it's specific.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman! Honourable Minister of Retire, I would just like to remind you that in this Chamber, the only party that has increased its result is a movement for rights and freedoms. If you claim to have limited your... [[Noise and Resurrection lines.]] Colleagues who are from the other parliamentary groups are currently entering the parliament, I am talking about those who have been in the Parliament so far. So maybe in that some parties have shrunk, I don't want to mention their names, maybe you've narrowed them down. We are pleased that you are limiting the purchase of votes. However, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has been the most stable political organisation since its establishment to this day and has always participated and increased its support and trust.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u187	Do you want a hole, Minister? No. Question from MP Mario Rangelov. Here you are, and I hope you will be specific, because here, as it is written on the list, it is not clear which area it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u188	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Retire Minister, before I ask my question, I will only remind you of a promise of your previous parliamentary control. Let me remind you that then you promised me that on the face Mario Rangelov, who has not signed a protocol, if in the protocol that Mario Rangelov has not signed, says that he has no right to campaign as a condition in the protocol itself, you will personally take up with the person Mario Rangelov, who actually proved to be me, will go to the employees of the Ministry of Interior to take some attitude about this thing. [[Applause from DPS.]] Here you claim to give you examples of coercion. I'll give you one example on behalf of all my colleagues. At 5:30 a.m., the police arrive in front of young children and elderly parents, take out an activist of ours in the car, take him to the police station, give him a detention protocol, oblige him to sign a protocol, and in the afternoon, when the election day is over, they let him go. They say it was a talk. On your advice, however, this activist of ours turned to the prosecution and what you are waving today that there are convicted activists and you claim that the police have done their work conscientiously and legally, I would like to tell you that the Pleven District Court has declared your conduct, of your employees, illegally in this case. I can, if you want, and in the specifics, give you the incoming numbers in which the police's actions are condemned. My question is related, Mr. Minister, to the election campaign during the elections on 11.07.2021. In the town of Varshets, Montana, Mr. Vasil Georgiev Zamfirov, municipal president of the DPS and municipal councillor, has signed a warning protocol. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case, on the basis of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the question: on what basis and on what basis is the availability of sufficient data to draw up the warning protocol? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u189	Ten seconds of question, and the other one was like this. [[Reply by National Representative Mario Rangelov.]] No, please! [[Reply from DPS: Mr. Chairman, make him a remark not to behave like a small child.]] Please, out of the way! From the looks of it, you're doing this to each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First on last week's issue. I don't forget when I say something. This protocol was drawn up for you on a legitimate basis, which was mentioned last week, only you didn't present the second page of it, so let's see what it says there. Are there signatures or no signatures? Because so, waving this protocol in one page alone, there is no one else's signature on this page, neither on the protocol nor on the person to whom the protocol was drawn. And if he refused to sign it, a witness who has to verify that this protocol is drawn up properly and so on. It turns out from my background that all the materials that concern this case that you asked me about, I didn't wave any protocols, I didn't wave any data. These data that I am reporting here from Parliament is because obviously you want them to say how many people have been convicted of buying and selling votes. For your party there are judgments that have been published on the Internet, and I directed you several times, instead of me to ask, to open and read. The paper we were talking about last week, even though the protocol was waving by you here in the room in just one page, not two pages, from which I cannot conclude whether there is a mistake in drawing up the protocol and so on. The trouble is that these materials were sent, I checked, of course, with the police where they should be, and it turns out that they were sent to the prosecution. We cannot ask the prosecution for material because it is part of the independent judiciary. On the second question, it is identical, of course, only asking about Montana, about the citizen. Like everyone else around you who are, you also do not present facts about how this person was actually harassed and pressured on him. In what way? I am a lawyer and we are pedants in the interpretation of individual words and concepts and we are making a specific point. What sense do you have in mind, in what are these actions expressed? Yes, indeed, there is a case here that is described to me by the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, but there is nowhere to be pressure, harassment and so on and so forth. The people of the Ministry of Interior have done their job. You, I repeat, want to present the authorities of the Ministry of Interior almost as some creepy organ in our country that is pressing, harassing people and so on, and I do not think so, and I am not the only one who does not think so. The protocol is drawn up because of operational information about the empathy of this person you are asking about, actions that are not legal, and therefore a protocol has been drawn up for him. Since you are asking on what grounds, the legal basis is art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act. Ask as many questions as you like, but I want to get this answer out, so to speak, in front of parentheses and tell you that there is no protocol drawn up by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior which has not become on the grounds of art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act. What's the political point of wanting me to keep repeating the same thing from the Ministry of Interior Act, for God's sake, hardly anyone can give an answer. You must think this is some great political idea and a hit for your good performance and for the public, only it seems to me that you are deeply mistaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u191	You're entitled to a line, Mr. Rangelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u192	Mr. Minister, to my question you first said that there is no such protocol as you tell many of my colleagues. Turns out there's such a protocol. Then you said it wasn't possible with protocol that police officers would oblige us to sign that we had no right to campaign. We have shown you in the record that this is required in the protocol itself. Now you claim the protocol has a second page. I don't want to tell you because of your white hair that you're lying for the third time. The protocol is on the same page, and I have the original protocol! I'll give it to you as well, and it's signed by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, and it's signed by me as well. And two pages of this protocol won't. And it says I don't have the right to campaign under art. 167 - 169 of the NK.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u193	Mr. Rangelov, is this about this?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u194	Mr. Minister has made a commitment to the next parliamentary control to answer me personally why I have been dealt with this way. And I do not want the answer to apply to me because I see that such an answer is given to many of my colleagues. My question is: why are protocols disappearing? In my case, that's what happened. You have confirmed in the previous parliamentary control that there is no such protocol. I gave it to you. This is a form of the Ministry of Interior and writes above, the anthet is the....................... the internal affairs department.... not the prosecution to claim that it was given to the prosecution and therefore you do not have it with you. You're required to have such a protocol with you, even though you passed it on to the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u195	That wasn't a line anyway. Would you like a douche bag?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u196	What do you mean, I don't want a duvet?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u197	Well, if there's no line, what's the back? That's the one.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u198	Now, look how clearly I answered the MP, but because he doesn't have the necessary knowledge, he doesn't understand me. The minutes referred to in art. 65, para. 1 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior under the law itself shall be drawn up in one copy and after the file has been sent to the prosecution together with the minutes, no copy may remain at the Ministry of Interior. You can see what arbitrary statements are being heard here from the parliamentary tribune. It is obvious, however, that the fellow Member of the National Assembly does not understand legal matter, which is why he makes very gross mistakes. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Otherwise I read what he had presented as a copy or a copy of this protocol. It said 167... 169. That's all the material involved in buying and selling votes. The person who composed, as I recall, on 17 June 2021, this protocol had in mind the entire Chapter Three of the Penal Code under the heading "Crimes against the political rights of citizens'. I also said that there was an application against the candidate then, and now a MP here in this room for self-harm. And let us explain to the people's representative, Mr. Chairman, what did he do to get the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to bring in a case file?! And when he proves here what this is about, then maybe we can continue this conversation. Probably not. [[Reply from DPS: "Nothing in common with the answer. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u199	The next question is from MP Sevim Ali on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. As far as I can see, it's about something that happened in the village of Grozden.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u200	That's right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question to you, Mr. Retire Minister, is about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on the election day of July 8, 2021 in the village of Grozden, Sungurlare municipality, Burgas district. In the morning at six o'clock employees of the Ministry of Interior invaded the home of Mrs. Kina Hristova, municipal councillor from the Department of Rights and Freedoms, demonstrively taking her entire family out and searching their home. As a result of the search, they find nothing illegal. Then Mrs. Hristova was called to the precinct to sign a protocol that she would not buy votes, although she had never been charged with anything like that. And she is warned, honourable Members, not to verbally campaign for the benefit of a Movement for Rights and Freedoms. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions: on what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings a search has been carried out and what is the presence of sufficient data to come up with a warning protocol? Is there a court's permission, has the prosecution been informed and what further action is being taken on the case described? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u201	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer. This is the last question for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u202	Huh?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u203	I see here that four or five of the MPs are gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, this is my pleasure, this is every Friday I'm going to miss them very much. I'm gonna miss these smart questions so much. I very much hope that this activity will have an even more beneficial impact on the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the forthcoming elections. I will not answer the question at all whether pressure and harassment have been exercised. It's been DPS fiction for a few months. They're dealing with the whole society with their own inventions. No police officer, especially in an election campaign, is going to go on violence, harassment, pressure against people. As they say: "It was in front of the people that did this... " So you think that police officers have no responsibilities, no instinct for self-preservation, and just go, exert some violence somewhere so that people like you here, when they come to the Chamber, can start attacking the Minister of Home Affairs. There's no such thing. Give us the data on pressure and harassment, present them here, we'll comment on them. If you don't have that data, don't show them, because you're being ridiculous. Even the people's representative can sometimes be ridiculous. Specifically on the subject. It's not so naive what a man really says. It's naive to bring it here in a convenient way. Indeed, in respect of this citizen, who is a citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria and does not matter whether she is sympathetic or is a member of the DPS, we treat all citizens under the Constitution in the same way, received an alert, received information, honourable representatives and honourable viewers on television. There is information in the relevant structure of the Ministry of Interior that this citizen is carrying out actions that may qualify as such by Chapter 3 of our Criminal Code. On this occasion, the district police department paid attention, not because they had no other job, because they received such information, which is quite normal. It became clear to all citizens that when the employees of the Ministry of Interior start checking whether they are buying and selling votes people associated with the DPS, they are ready immediately here from the stands to ask all sorts of questions and to attack and insult the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. With regard to this information received at the police station in order to verify this data, an honourable MPs, a file has been created, such material has been recorded in the police department concerned, which is quite normal. The number of this information file of the representative of the DPS is 454R-6585 from 9 July 2021, Sungurlare District Management. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior have actually carried out a check at this woman's home. Such a legal possibility, because everywhere they ask what is the basis of this, is the legal possibility, i.e. the legal basis to take such action, art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act. If someone does not like this text of the Law, as others do, he may change it. This House can do this, but once adopted as legal norms, they must be respected, especially by the authorities. That's exactly what they did. As we are talking about possible evidence of a crime under Chapter 3 of the Penal Code of Penalty "Buying and selling of votes', they must therefore go and see, if not in the home, in the store, in the car or elsewhere, whether there are any items, items from which this conclusion can be confirmed or rejected, to abandon the relevant version. That's what these people did there, who are officers of the Ministry of Interior. Since they acted in accordance with the Law, I congratulate them from this tribune. Some people blame them, spit on them here from this tribune, and I congratulate them for doing their job. I wish them to be very healthy and still dignified to exercise their authority under the Ministry of Interior Act. After the verification has been completed, the case, honourable Members, honourable viewers, has been reported to the prosecution, which exercises supreme oversight of the legality of the actions of the police authorities. The MPs do not supervise the legality of the files and cases. They are presented here, especially by the DPS, in connection with the electoral process and yet to show their voters that although not ruling, they can take the floor from the platform of parliament. Those persons who, on a daily basis, are constantly doing their job, have sent the file to the district attorney's office, all the material so that the prosecution can take part in this case, including, of course, both this inspection protocol at the home of this citizen and the written notice protocol under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act. A decree has been issued by the Prosecutor's Office in Sungurlare, with which the Prosecutor's Office, after having received and examined these materials, has not found sufficient grounds available under law, i.e. other data, legal reason and data to initiate proceedings and to rule on this file, which I have already said. The actions taken by the Ministry of Interior and the prosecution have already dared to say, as this is a joint, joint work between the two institutions, are absolutely relevant to the laws in our country, which is the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u205	Mr. Ali, a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u206	Just so you know, the minister's been talking for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u207	Yeah, yeah, I noticed because it's the last question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Minister for Retire, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Rashkov, you will be remembered that as Minister of Interior in your mandate were harassed tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens were repressed during last year's election campaign in 2021 in July and November, without any legal basis. From this tribune, we have repeatedly stated from the parliamentary group of "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" that behind all these signals you are talking about, they cannot be grounds for illegal acts against Bulgarian citizens, against their political rights, and constitutional rights. And what you're trying to suggest is that, you see, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is against the actions of the Interior Ministry's employees to fight against the vote bought, that's not true. On the contrary, we support the fight against the bought vote, but it is a fact that last year with your political instructions, which you have given, you tried to turn the Ministry of Interior's employees into serving staff of the authorities. A moment ago, in one of the answers you gave, you told my colleague that you should measure with the same arsin and that you should be at the same distance as all political parties. And I have another specific, more specific question for you. Since you like to self-sit from signals, here in this Chamber and in the whole Bulgarian society for a month perhaps, it has been commented for several weeks that MPs are being bought, that entire parliamentary groups of.......... are being bought.......................................................... are being bought............................. And under art. 65 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior, how many warning protocols have you drawn up and whether there is one drawn up by yourself not to buy MPs and some of the Council of Ministers? [[Laughter at Minister Boyko Rashkov]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u209	Colleague Ali, is that a line on the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u210	Yeah, a line on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u211	You're kidding. [[(Reply from the People's Representative Sevim Ali:]] Would you like a douche bag?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u212	Is that the last of it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u213	It's the last one.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u214	One more question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u215	I'm sorry it's the last time. Here, see what a discussion we understand what is said, great, highly intellectual, all words and sentences. Mr. Chairman, thank you for the word. I mean, as we are at the end of parliamentary control, the following. For the first time in decades, we have created....I cannot say that we have eradicated a hundred percent, we have created at least a disturbance in the ranks of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms........................ to buy free votes for its party. Surprisingly this morning, I heard their deputy parliamentary chairman speak that the parliament's flea market is coming to an end. And the flea market during the elections last year, did you forget it, both Letifov and the MPs on duty, to put unnecessary and stupid questions to the Minister of Interior? [[Reply from the People's Representative Sevim Ali.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u216	Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u217	The Minister of Interior will implement the Law as much as you don't like it. Moreover, the Minister of Interior, you know, he is a lawyer who knows the laws and will never allow himself to violate them. [[Noise and lines from DPS. A line from the People's Representative Sevim Ali.]] And that you do not know the laws, you believe that anyone who does not think like you violates the laws of the state. This is your big mistake and your deficit, because in order to be able to ask a lawyer with 30 years of practice, you must at least know a little bit what you are asking and what its meaning is. So from this control, yours, nothing comes out and people only laugh at you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u218	To you, to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u219	So what kind of minister am I, this will appreciate a much wider circle than the Bulgarian society - not you. You're not my criterion, so I'm not offended at all by you. Thank you for your attention. [[Noise and lines from DPS. Replies from the People's Representative Sevim Ali.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u220	The next question is from the MP... [[Noise and lines from DPS. Replies from MP Sevim Ali to Minister Boyko Rashkov.]] Can you get better on the sidelines, Mr. Secretary? The next question is from the National Representative Angel Georgiev on the opening of a Bulgarian Embassy in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia to the Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska in resignation. You're welcome to develop your question. Now it's gonna get boring in the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Genchovska, last February last year was dismissed from office Bulgaria's exceptional and plenipotentiary ambassador to Latvia, who was actually headquartered in Warsaw. Despite the numerous requests of our compatriots in Latvia in recent years and the fact that only over 900 Bulgarians live there, so far their request for the opening of a Bulgarian Embassy in Riga has been ignored. According to the numerous signals we have received from our compatriots living in the three Baltic republics, the activity of the Honorary Consul in Riga is extremely insufficient and unsatisfactory for them, and the distance to the Bulgarian Embassy in Warsaw is an inconvenience and cannot meet the needs of our compatriots in the Baltic republics. In this regard, and given the constantly changing and quite complex international situation lately, my question is: when will a Bulgarian Embassy be opened in Riga, which can serve the needs of our compatriots in the three Baltic republics of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia? Because we believe that this is very important and all Bulgarians everywhere in the world must be joined precisely through as many of our embassies as possible wherever possible. Obviously, it is possible here and we hope that this will happen as soon as possible. I also think I'll get the specific from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u222	Thank you. Madam Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, I would like to inform you that in the strategic review of the diplomatic service, which was carried out at the end of last year, the Foreign Ministry proposed providing additional funds for the opening of diplomatic and consular missions. In the context of the policy for the implementation of the foreign policy objectives and protection of the interests of Bulgarian citizens, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also identifies the appropriateness of restoring the Bulgarian diplomatic presence in the Baltic region. Bulgaria is strategic partners with the three Baltic countries with which we maintain good friendly relations and share many common positions within international organizations. In light of modern geopolitical realities and challenges, Bulgaria's relations with Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are becoming increasingly important. As regards the diplomatic presence, the activities of the embassies of Bulgaria in Lithuania and Estonia were suspended in 2011. In Latvia, our country never found an embassy. As you said, the mission of our ambassador to Latvia and Lithuania based in Warsaw was terminated in 2021 due to the completion of his mandate. That same year, our ambassador's mission to Estonia, based in Helsinki, has been terminated. By decrees No 23, No 30 and No 47 of the President since 2021, Bulgaria's Ambassador to Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, based in Sofia, has been appointed exceptional and plenipotentiary, and consular administrative services continue to be provided to the citizens of our embassies in Warsaw and Helsinki. As a first and perhaps the most appropriate step towards restoring our diplomatic presence in the region, including geographically and financially, the possibility of opening an embassy in Latvia has been highlighted. Due to its central location in the region, the future mission in Riga is intended to represent our country in the three Baltic States by providing administrative and consular services to our compatriots both in Lithuania and in Estonia. The opening of an embassy in Riga is considered priority and positive by the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it is enshrined in our proposal to the Council of Ministers regarding the preparation of a government management programme as early as 15 April this year with the corresponding financial justification on an annual basis how much the opening of an embassy and its maintenance will cost. In the event of a decision to open an embassy in the Latvian capital, appropriate funds should also be provided for in the budget. When providing these funds in the foreign ministry budget, we expect a decision to open an embassy in Riga for 2023, with such a decision to initiate the procedure for its opening next year. Naturally, you know that it will take technological time for a building, for provision, communication and so on. We have the financial estimates, we have the estimates that are related to the necessary personnel. The foreign ministry entered its proposal on 15 April to the Council of Ministers. At this point, we don't have an answer. We expect these funds to fall into the foreign ministry budget next fiscal year and the process of opening the Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria in Riga will be launched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u224	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Georgiev, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Genchovska. Here I think it is very important to specify exactly what funds we are talking about, so that the Bulgarian society can gain an idea of whether there are many, are there few, are they within our country's powers respectively. We also strongly believe that the opening of an embassy for the three Baltic States is necessary, and we believe that it must also lie within the priorities of the future, and also to the next regular government, respectively, to grant the necessary funds in the budget, because we must not deprive our compatriots around the world of all the contacts they may have with our country. And we also need to do everything possible to keep them feeling Bulgarians and to preserve the Bulgarian in themselves, which, agree, cannot be so easy when our country gives funds for things that are not needed at all and for activities, especially related to the Bulgarians abroad, the funds that are being granted are, to put it mildly, unsatisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u226	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mrs. Genchovska, the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Georgiev, the exact amount I am talking about on 15 April, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has included in its estimates and provided to the Council of Ministers, is 922 thousand. £245. per year, and inflation should also be taken into account accordingly. I think the amount compared to other embassies is quite decent, so we hope for an understanding from the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u228	And thank you, Mrs. Genchovska, and for your participation in parliamentary control. I will close today's parliamentary control with a question from MP Krum Zarkov about the need to establish a Criminological Research Council at the Ministry of Justice to the Minister of Justice in Retirement Nadezhda Yordanova. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your patience and for holding this debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies of the House! Dear Minister of Justice, every day the Bulgarian society receives brutal evidence that our penal policy is not effective enough and its rethinking was a necessity realized by us seven months ago when we concluded a coalition agreement. It was no accident that we signed at the beginning that a council would have to be built to collect criminological data on the causes of crime. This measure was laid down in our agreement. For it for a long time there are also various specialists who appeal to representatives of the academic community, penalists, criminologists. Such a council was held in Bulgaria to various institutions. They functioned from 1968 until 2015, when the latter was at the Prosecutor General's Office, if I am not mistaken, and was closed down, and it is necessary to be sufficiently aware of objective criminal data about the state and the reasons for the crime in our country. This Council and the analysis of the structure of crime are also provided for in the Concept of Penal Policy of Bulgaria, which is in operation, and must act until 2025. Therefore, my question to you is: what actions have been taken by you and by your ministry for the establishment of a Criminological Research Council?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u230	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Zarkov, Dear Gentlemen of the National Assembly! Indeed, there is a need to establish a Criminological Research Council at the Ministry of Justice. This is laid down as a short-term measure in the Program for Effective Judicial System and Fair Justice - part of our coalition agreement. As a matter of fact, this measure was laid down in my work programme to launch implementation in June, with what was planned to be the creation of a working group, respectively drawing up the legal basis for the Council, so that it can function on 1 January 2023. This Council provides for the participation of various representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the National Investigation Service, the Supreme Judicial Council and experts from the scientific circles and NGOs. We know what happened in June, which slowed this process down. Regardless of the outcome of whether there will be a government within this Parliament or there will be a caretaker government, I will leave the preparatory action to my successor because this is indeed an extremely important step. As you rightly pointed out, we see it every day, and we are talking almost weekly about fragmented changes to the Penal Code, problems that have accumulated over the years where, in view of transposition of European legislation, where, in view of those imposed in society. It is high time for these processes to be structured and to rest on more adequate data to make the relevant decisions. In fact, not only in criminal policy itself, i.e. from the point of view of which crimes should be committed, with what penalties should be punished, but also the policy itself on the execution of penalties. A question which I am facing, and I see more and more that there is also a significant share in the problems in the implementation of the criminal policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u233	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, Bulgaria is still in mourning from what happened a few days ago, which took the lives of two innocent women. Periodically, our country wakes up shaken by tragedies and questions begin: how is it possible that a person with such a criminal record is on the loose; how is it possible not to prevent these activities? Penal policy, despite its name, is not intended to punish. It aims to prevent and punishes are only one part of these processes. Very often politicians and others react helplessly after something has happened by increasing penalties, but we all know that this is dust in the eye, that in order to have an effect, we need a comprehensive policy, and this policy requires a deep understanding of the processes of institutional, social, economic, which make a society violent. And that without enough empiracy and a scientific approach, left only to politicians who, on patches, as you said, change the Penal Code, cannot happen. And I am very happy that you have nevertheless taken action and I am sure that both the next ministers and the next MPs should continue in this direction. I am using this case, Madam Minister, because it is possible that this is our last parliamentary control, to thank you sincerely for your good work. My impressions of your work are extremely good. I think you were a worthy Minister of Justice, and I hope you will be again in the future. Goodbye! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-08.u234	And thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Would you like a douche? You're giving up the backrest. Thank you. He decided very quickly to fire you, Mr. Zarkov, so let's wait a while. With this, colleagues, the parliamentary control that is planned for today has been completed. The next regular meeting should be on Wednesday at 9:00. The National Assembly is adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
