ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u1	There's a quorum. We can begin our meeting. Before that, honourable Members, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the 146th anniversary of the heroic feat of Hristo Botev and his reading will be celebrated in Bulgaria today. Every Bulgarian will stop his busy daily rhythm to bow to the immortality of Botev and those who died for the freedom and independence of Bulgaria. May today's plenary session be held in the spirit of respect and honor to the heroic feat of our ancestors. Before we move on to the agenda, a statement has been requested from Here you go, Mr. Terziysky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At 12.00 today we lower our head in memory of the poet revolutionary Hristo Botev, who lost his life for the freedom and independence of Bulgaria. "Druzhina goes, goes, The road is scary, but glorious, But... I've had enough of this award. To say to the people at once: The poor have died for righteousness, for righteousness and for freedom. The freedom Botev raises to a pedestal is not for granted. It is a value that has been won, and in order to protect it, we must continue to fight each and every one of us to fight against injustices, against schemes, against corruption that suffocate freedom. Fatherland, I love you very much. His covenant I keep; But myself, brothers, I lose, Those fools like I hate them. Have we lost ourselves? No. The covenant of Botev teaches us when you have a purpose, when you work for the welfare of your people, when you are not afraid of the sacrifices you have to make, then you cannot lose yourself and your way. For 146 years we Bulgarians have been honoring the people of Botev and his feat and his heroic death. Heroic in the real sense of the word. Bow to Botev's memory! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change", DPS, BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u3	In this regard, I would like to inform you, fellow Members, that today's holiday will be a little early, so that at 12 minus 15 we can all be back in the Chamber. Mr. Kostadinov, for a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u4	June 2 is not just a day for one person's memory. 2 June is a day for the memory of all those who died for the freedom and independence of Bulgaria. On this day we bow down before those who died to live for Bulgaria to live. On this day we bow before those who despised their lives for those who despised them. We must not forget that June 2 is not only a symbol of the fallen great Bulgarians, but it is a day when we must remember all those who have done so that against the backdrop of their inaction the greatness of Botev and his several hundred, less than 200 Chetniks, are becoming more and more timeless in the years. There is one moment that I want us all to think about today because it is extremely important. Because this moment makes the greatness of a man and his reading, vowed and gave their lives for the sake of the fatherland, even greater. When Boteva read reaches Millin Stone and then withdraws to Vola, a series of strong battles begin. In one of them, the Boteva read, along a goat's path, goes to the meadow of Teushnitsa, near which was the fold of Dimitar the Mash. They took 15 lambs from him, made fire, and turned them to roast. At that moment, however, the Turkish infantry came directly against them. The cavalry set out to bypass them across the field. At the time, they bandaged the wounds of the Pero the Macedonian, Hristo Botyov put on corsages because his boots were torn and killed. One part of the posse sought more and more to bring them closer and another part to take over one of the nearest peaks. At that moment, shortly before the fight began, the shepherd appeared, from whom they took the lambs. You asked for the money. Come on, give me the money for the lambs, he yelled. Rather, the Cherkies are coming. " - This made everyone a very sad impression. Botyove resented the shepherd's act and angryly cried out: "Look at him, and we are going to set a people free. Give him the money and go away. This is from the memories of Dimitar Todorov one of his Chetniks, one of the few survivors. [[Shows the book.]] As before, so now greatness and lowliness go hand in hand. As before, there are people in the Bulgarian people who are fighting for the common good and those who are trying to win through the common good. Today, on this day, we pay tribute to those who ignored themselves, laid their bones as foundations on which to build the Fatherland. Today we must remember a story that remembers the characters and forgets and despises the traitors. Bow before those who have died so that we may live! Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from ARGUING and ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u5	Are there any other declarations? I can't see. We are now moving on to the operational part of our meeting. Before we move to the starting point of the first vote on the Draft Law amending the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, and despite the solemn day, I still have one announcement to make: In relation to what happened yesterday in the National Assembly, I met the transcript, the videos and the photos from yesterday, because, as chairman of the meeting, I did not have the necessary visibility and on the basis of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, specifically art. 156, I call the measure a reprimand for the MPs Iskren Mitev and Kostadin Kostadinov. Article 156 states that the President imposes a penalty on a Member of Parliament who violates the order of the sitting or has created disorder in the Chamber. Within three days, Members of the National Assembly may object to the President of the National Assembly. We move on to item one of the agenda for today: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2022 I propose that the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance be presented.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u6	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u7	Excuse me, Mr. Karimansky. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u8	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedure for the item on the agenda, the one we are about to look at, to be removed from the agenda for several reasons. First of all, it was not prepared in the plenary and by the Council of Ministers, a change of budget. Next, only and only the Council of Ministers, you know, according to our Constitution has the right to offer a budget to the Republic of Bulgaria for amendment. A budget by Members of the National Assembly by its nature and character is unlawful. There's no way we're going to see it in plenary today. We should wait for the Council of Ministers to submit the budget and then look at an update, amendment, supplement or anything under the Budget Act. That's why I'm making this offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u9	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Inverse opinion, reverse proposal.. Mrs. Miteva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Popov, I'm amazed. I'm amazed. I was hoping you'd do that during the debate. You even did it before we started looking at the point. Here, with this paragraph and with this law, we are proposing no change in the framework of the state budget. We don't change the bill. We don't change the expenditures and revenues or the fiscal policy of Bulgaria to wait for some law on budget update. Here we are trying to correct a mistake that we, the MPs, have made. I would ask the question: why do the MPs then have the right to make proposals between first and second votes, since we have no right to work on the budget at all? Once the Council of Ministers brings it in, let's be so good as to just make it public and publish it in the Official Journal. I really don't understand how to read art. 87, para. 2 of the Constitution. I will call on you to request an interpretation from the Constitutional Court of Art. 87, para. 2 to stop speculation in this regard. I will just say that on 19 May last week, during the request for the Vice-President's resignation, there was a lot of talk about the spirit of the Constitution, constitutional texts and laws. I'm really amazed because it's not parliamentary deviating from the spirit of the Constitution and the laws. This is not the meaning of the Constitution and the laws, and I will say this in my speech later if the point is examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u11	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u12	Mr. Zarkov, I'll give you the manner of conduct. However, I do not wish to open a debate in a procedure in which there is a proposal to drop a point and therefore a reverse proposal to leave the point. I give you the word in the manner of conduct, but I hope so. Then there are other ways for this bill to be discussed and rejected, possibly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u13	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's completely in the way of conduct, Mr. Chairman. You allowed Mrs. Miteva to make a basic replica of Mr. Popov, and not only that with a edifying tone to explain how she was amazed. The only amazing thing is that today there is a Bill for amending the state budget signed by MPs for the first time in 32 years, and for the first time in 32 years is because you have no right to do so. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u14	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Svilensky, if you have anything new, just add to what you've said, because we're starting to open a discussion. That's the last thing I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is in the manner of conduct and it is in the direction of the National Assembly, for you have allowed this bill to be considered in committees at all, respectively, to enter into plenary and will call not experts lawyers, although they may, but two economists who have been respected by me, Mr. Tsonev and Mr. Ananiev from GERB, as former finance minister and chairman of the Commission, to come out of this platform and to say this is an acceptable law for amendment and supplement of the state budget submitted by the National Assembly? Yes and no Mr. Ananiev and Mr. Tsonev, please, really as long-standing representatives in this room go out and say is it acceptable?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u16	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u17	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u18	I suggest we don't open a discussion you forgot to have yesterday. [[speaking indistinctly]] when the National Assembly programme was voted on, honourable Members. We have a procedure, I think everyone is well aware of the situation. These arguments are a political speech that he belonged to yesterday. Today what you can do, and I think the discussion will not change anyone's mind here is to reject this item from the agenda or confirm it. Then there are other ways to be and procedures to be attacked, and otherwise you are right, Mr. Svilensky, that perhaps this issue should have been discussed before this point at all arrives as a proposal on the agenda. But it's a question that's not specific to me. I, Mr. Tsonev, I'm afraid...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u19	I'm afraid you're breaking the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u20	By which... are we breaking the rules? If it's the way you're doing it, come on in, but let's do it in the way of keeping it so we can see what I'm doing wrong right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u21	At the last one.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u22	No, I'm not wrong about the explanations.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u23	No, you're wrong, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u24	I have the right to answer, and you cannot make a replica of my explanations of the procedures in the manner of conduct that my colleagues make to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u25	Do I have a say in this?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u26	I'm listening to you now because it's to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I can't give you the answer, but I can do you a procedure in the manner of keeping. Your manner of conduct is not in line with the Rules, and it is not at all in line with the spirit of parliamentaryism. Of course, you have the right to answer when there is a procedure in the manner of leading you, but not by suggesting what should vote or not vote on the National Assembly, but on the contrary, you have an obligation when someone is speaking, interrupting, directing or making a note about whether he is following the procedure. In your opinion, is it acceptable for the President of the National Assembly to allow a Member of the National Assembly to ask an ultimatative tone of questions to other Members of the National Assembly to immediately go out on the stand and explain to each other what you are? Do I have reason to give you a procedure in the manner of conduct? Thank you. I consider your silence a sign of consent.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u28	No, when you're done, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u29	Yes, yes, of course you will.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u30	I think that's the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u31	Of course you will.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u32	Not to ask me questions during...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u33	I have a right to ask you questions because it's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u34	Yes, and I'll answer when you get off the stand, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u35	What point in your Rules does it say you can enter into a dialogue?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u36	You just asked me to engage in a dialogue with Mr. Svilensky, now... But go on, you've got another 30 seconds. [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u37	Mr. Chairman, what you're doing is scandalous, but I'm going to keep the good tone, although I may not keep it. Once again, when MPs speak, you must make a note to them. And when you are made a note in the manner of keeping, you do not need to enter into a dialogue with the one who makes a note you have a procedure to answer after the note has been made. Regarding respect for the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, this is the case once it is violated, it is violated a hundred times. At least a hundred times, I have called for you to stop violating the Constitution, and this is not the first time that here, in this National Assembly, there is an amendment and an addition to the State Budget Act, including you. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u38	You're getting to the point, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u39	No, it's not really.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u40	Everyone wants to be interrupted, it's normal. I suggest that we end this discussion. I will not answer to Mr. Tsonev. I think we should now move calmly to the vote and then to discuss the bill. I'm putting the motion to the vote... [[Replyings between MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] Please rest in the hall. [[Replications of MPs Krum Zarkov and Hassan Ademov.]] Colleagues, during the discussion of the Bill, if it does not fall off the agenda, it will be possible for these arguments to be put forward calmly. Please vote on Mr Popov's proposal for dropping the item from the agenda. Vote 197 MPs: 96 against 89, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u41	REPLICA: Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u42	Revoting procedure. Vote 201 MPs: 97 against 92 abstentions 12. The proposal is not accepted, with which we begin the discussion of the Bill accordingly. Moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2022 Mr. Karimanski, you are welcome to present the opinion of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u43	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ......................................)..................................................................... on a bill amending the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-254-01-56, imported from Iva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 19 May 2022. At a regular meeting held on 26 May 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022. The meeting was attended by Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Professor Genka Petrova, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, and Diana Dragneva, Director of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Finance. The bill was presented by MP Iva Miteva. § 17 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 provides additional funding for an increase in the remuneration of the academic staff in the state universities. At the same time, the provision of the funds is subject to the criteria and indicators in the rules for the attestation of the academic staff to be brought into line with a methodology determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. The provision has been tabled between the first and second votes by MPs and is evident from their speeches in the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance of 18 February 2022. The aim is to give these funds on the basis of coverage of quality indicators defined by self-management universities and agreed with a methodology. At the meeting of the Budget and Finance Committee, the text is supplemented by a new second sentence which, contrary to a sentence first, determines that the indicators and criteria should no longer be determined by the self-governing universities themselves, but by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science. This bill removes the contradiction between sentences first and second of the adopted norm of § 17 and refers to the Higher Education Act. The question of the unconstitutionality of the provision with art. 53, para. 4 of the Constitution in order to violate the principle of academic autonomy of higher schools. There is a discrepancy with art. 57 of the Higher Education Act, according to which the indicators and criteria are defined in the regulations of the relevant higher schools with a mandatory minimum included in the law. In this way, the legislator, through the Higher Education Act, grants the right to higher schools themselves to determine the indicators and criteria in accordance with their strategic orientation and life cycle of development. The bill is necessary because the funds set out in the State Budget Act cannot be used under the procedure laid down in § 17. The amendment to this paragraph is important in order to enable the assigned funds allocated by the State budget to reach their addressees, moreover, that the changed economic conditions in recent months impose an urgent indexing of the incomes of those working in the system. The Law shall be without prejudice to the power of the Council of Ministers provided for in art. 87, para. 2 of the Constitution, draw up and submit the State Budget Bill to the National Assembly. This bill does not make a change in the revenue or expenditure part of the budget, including it does not deteriorate the balance of the state budget, but only corrects the error made by the legislator in the adoption of § 17 and brings it into line with the Higher Education Act. The bill has no impact on the state budget for 2022, i.e. it does not lead to a change in the budgetary balance at stake under the State budget for 2022, respectively the consolidated fiscal programme for the period 2022 and 2024. The amendment does not have an independent character in relation to the revenue and expenditure part of the budget and does not affect the fiscal policy of the State. It merely specifies the specific norm of § 17 for the purpose of its effective implementation and compliance with the constitutional rules. The written opinion of the Ministry of Finance notes that the proposed amendment to § 17 does not relate to the provision of additional funds and does not directly concern budgetary matters. To the extent that there is a doubt of a contradiction with art. 53, para. 4 of the Constitution, which concerns the principle of academic autonomy of higher schools, according to the Minister of Finance, the assessment should be carried out by the Ministry of Education and Science. Reserves are expressed regarding the view presented by the importers that the Law does not affect the power of the Council of Ministers under art. 87, para. 2 of the Constitution. According to the Minister of Finance, the Council of Ministers, as the sole holder of a legislative initiative for the state budget, is also supposed to be the same in terms of bills amending and supplementing the state budget law, regardless of the nature of the provisions proposing changes. In the written opinion, the Ministry of Education and Science notes that the proposed change in § 17 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 can be supported, I stress, can be supported...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, increasing quality has different dimensions, one of which is the process of advising academic staff. In this sense, according to Minister Academician Denkov, although not through the budget laws, remains the need to amend art. 57 of the Law on Higher Education after the corresponding broad public consultation. In their written opinion, the Council of Rectors of Higher Schools in the Republic of Bulgaria and the National Branch Syndicate "High Education and Science" at the CST advocate that the current provision of § 17 contradicts the legislation in force in the field of higher education and science by proposing a version of the text in which the order for the provision of the funds under art. 1, para. 5, Row 2.9 is determined by a National Agreement between the Council of Rectors, the national trade unions represented and the Ministry of Education and Science. According to them, the goal of increasing the remuneration of each member of the academic staff will be achieved.. assistant, assistant chief, associate professor, professor, professor, senior teacher, and each of them will be compensated due to the adverse consequences of the inflation processes in the country. During the discussion the MPs, representatives of the Council of Rectors of Higher Schools in the Republic of Bulgaria and of the National Branch Syndicate After the discussion, a vote was held, which ended with the following results - please pay attention to the results only from BSP and the other political parties, 18 votes for the vote, including BSP and "We are continuing the Change" without the opposition and abstention. On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-254-01-56, submitted by Iva Miteva Yordanova and a group of MPs on 19 May 2022. I consider it very indicative of the outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u44	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. There is no report from the Committee on Education and Science. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u45	I propose, given the public importance of what we are discussing, to be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u46	Okay. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u47	Dear Mr. Chairman! I am doing procedure in the manner of conduct until the colleagues come to vote on the procedure made by Mr. Yordanov. Dear Mr. President, you are making sure that the reporters of the committees and the reports are read as they are written and signed by the President and not supplemented and interpreted by this tribune. Nowhere in the Report does it say that the Law is supported unanimously, including the votes of the BSP. In the report, I looked for this order, but I did not see it, and this calls into question at all the reporting of these types of reports by this committee. You, as chairman, are following this thing and please make a remark when the reporter goes beyond the scope of the Report, which is based on a discussion in the Commission signed by a protocolist and a stenographer. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u48	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. The report has been published and signed in writing, as you said, so the relevant reference can be made there. The reporter may cut it short, but you're probably right that while reporting, he should refrain from elements that make some suggestion, as you said. This can happen in the speeches afterwards. We are going to vote on Mr. Yordanov's proposal for the discussion on this point to be delivered on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Vote 183 MPs: 79 against 71 abstentions 33. The offer is not accepted. Revoting wants Mr. Yordanov. They voted 188 MPs: for 83, against 77, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We are moving on to the debates on the so presented bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First you should have given me the floor as an importer...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u50	I'm giving it to you as an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u51	...so if I don't have enough time, let me get to the point. I will change the order in which I wanted to speak because of the proposal from the morning of BSP colleagues. And I will start with this first, can the MPs submit a Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act? [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] I tried very carefully to track... Mr. Svilensky, please, no yelling. I tried to follow the debates at the Grand National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u52	It was a rhetorical question, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u53	...when the Members of the National Assembly have accepted this provision. Unfortunately, a debate on this text is missing, but there is one very important sentence that says that the right to legislative initiative have these MPs and the Council of Ministers or these people must be given the right to a legislative initiative that feels the need for life. I would like to ask you, do we now not feel the need for life, since we ourselves have come here and allowed such a provision to be adopted in the State Budget Act? The Law on the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted in the distant 1991 and we must note that as the practice of the European Court of Human Rights develops, so should the practice of our Constitutional Court and our Constitution be developed. And really here we have to follow very closely and very thoroughly the spirit of constitutional texts, and since Mr. Svilenski is calling me, I will note to him that in 2017 a Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Budget of the Casa was adopted. The Law on the Budget of the Cashier, of the DVO and the state budget go in a package. This law was then adopted on the proposal of MPs and one of these MPs was Mrs Cornelia Ninova. Was it acceptable then, Mr. Svilensky, in 2017? Yes, according to your rules, yes. The Act on the Budget of the DVO, which has also been amended by law of parliament, or, for example, the Law on Measures and Actions in Emergency Situation, in which between first and second reading the Law on the State Budget is again changed, again with an MP's proposal. Were these proposals admissible then and where were you then? I think you were here again in the National Assembly. I think it's a very important issue. When we, the MPs, make such a mistake and allow such proposals to be accepted in plenary, we must quickly make this mistake, and not wait for the Constitutional Court to declare the text unconstitutional. We all know that there is already such a request in the Constitutional Court, and it is only a matter of time before that happens. Do we have to do this? Or is it more dignified for us ourselves to submit a bill and change what we have allowed...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u54	And now perhaps to the motives, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u55	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'll be back. Moreover, the Minister of Education himself yesterday in the meeting of the Education Committee called for support of this bill, explained that § 17 was wrong, and said that we should go forward, but not in this way. I think we should listen to the Minister of Education's words. As regards § 17............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Paragraph 17 is a controversial text, an illogical text, a vague text that contradicts not only the Constitution but also the Law on Higher Education. With § 17 we say that the money provided in art. 1, para. 5, t. 2.9 of the Budget Act, namely additional funds to increase the remuneration of the members of the academic staff in state universities, will be provided under certain conditions. On the one hand, we say that they must meet, that is, their indicators and criteria in the regulations must comply with the Law on Higher Education. On the other hand, we say that this should be reflected in a method of the Council of Ministers. On the third side, we say "Suddenly there is a sentence of the Budget and Finance Committee itself, not even done and written, saying suddenly that new indicators and criteria should be adopted by an act of the Council of Ministers. In other words, there are indicators, criteria, methodology adopted by an act of the Council of Ministers between the first and second votes of the Law. Not only this, but on the basis of this text appears a draft decision of the Council of Ministers, which already offers indicators, criteria and methodology, but these indicators also propose a change in the Rules for the Implementation of the Academic Board Act and change the scientific indicators that have been adopted only and have entered into force 2019. There is no subsequent assessment of the impact in violation of the Law on Legislatives, there is no request from the Authority itself why these science indicators are required to be changed so dramatically, and in § 17 of the State Budget Act. I note that § 17 is only for higher public schools. While the reform, which starts to be made suddenly with the decision of the Council of Ministers in this paragraph, is for all higher schools, i.e. both for state and private universities. The criteria and indicators are already greatly increased, are determined by an act of the Council of Ministers in violation of the Law on Higher Education, as an amendment in art. 57 has not been carried out, and there the minimum criteria are explicitly described in the Law and it is said that these indicators should be in the regulations of the relevant universities. That is, so far we have several violations of the Constitution and of the laws, but apparently these violations are ignored by everyone here in plenary who opposes the adoption of this bill. Not only that, it does not fit with new indicators and criteria, but at the same time it is said that the funds will be provided on the basis of a complex assessment for an attestation which is currently in art. 91 of the Law, which is even more chaos. Total chaos in the legislation that has begun since § 17 and passes through the decision of the Council of Ministers. I believe that we, as MPs, should be dignified to get out of this situation. That is why we have proposed dropping this methodology, dropping these new indicators and criteria to be determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers. I note that the decision of the Council of Ministers is not a legal act. Yes, it may have a regulatory character, but it is not a legal act and it cannot be ruled out by provisions of the Law on Higher Education. However, I believe that the country's governance should take place on the basis of laws and not on the basis of decisions. We are still a parliamentary republic, I think, so I appeal to the adoption of this text. I have proposed the funds to be provided after the indicators and criteria are brought into the regulations of higher schools with the Higher Education Act. However, I now understand that this active text from the Higher Education Act has not been tracked. There is no register, there is no such verification and assessment of whether all higher schools to date have implemented this old provision of the Law and it has yet to be said that order should be made in which this check should be carried out. Therefore, between the first and second votes, we will propose that these funds be made available directly on the basis of a proposal from the Minister of Education in coordination with the national trade unions and the Rectors' Council. And I think it is fair and dignified, as we have increased the salaries of teachers, as we have increased the salaries of doctors, to also increase the salaries in higher education and to move forward if we want to really reform. Yes, we are for reform, but we believe that this reform should not happen this way. The good thing about this text, perhaps the whole bill, on the other hand, is that we have become more specific to the changes that are adopted in the Higher Education Act, and unfortunately, we have found that again between first and second reading trying to push again conceptual proposals that we will not allow this time to happen to a second vote. Finally, I will end with Petko Karavelov, who said in the Constitutional Assembly that lawmakers should be guided by a basic principle...................that..the...the....the...the....the. and the laws should bring less harm and more benefit. I hope that we will show today that the laws should not bring harm. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. This was an importer's opinion. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. You've been mentioned many times by Mrs. Miteva, you've probably been offended. You have the floor. And then we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, I've been affected many times. You've made a remark to me that I'm answering from a place, so now I'm going to answer from the stands. I'm not going to start with quotes from Petko Karavelov and anyone, because I don't think it's the right place. Mrs. Miteva, you asked where BSP was during those 30 years when the NHIF Act, the Law of the DVO and the Law of Measures were adopted. BSP has been here for all these 30 years in Parliament and has not once broken the Constitution, and for the first time in 30 years we have submitted a Law amending the state budget by a group of MPs. For the first time! Here and Mr. Ademov tried to challenge, but he does, he won't, you're setting a precedent. There's no such case. You... I mean, I have to finish by law first. We, as opposition, have also tried to change the budget, but we have done so, respecting the Constitution and upholding the laws. We have tabled a draft decision which obliges the Council of Ministers to amend and supplement the State Budget Act concerning one sector. In this case, it was pensions. I mean, there's a way this can be done without violating the Constitution. Once again, Mr. Ananiev, come out, please, I respect you as a financier. You don't want to, but you vote, you sit there, people think they're doing something constitutionally permissible. You've been Deputy Minister for 30 years, of them four ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u58	Mr. Svilensky, it's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u59	I'm asking you to enlighten us a little on this subject. Just yes and no.. is it acceptable or not, to start the debate in the other direction. Yeah, we're for that money to go to professors, scientists and so on. No one in this room is against it, we are all about this thing and it will happen next Monday when the government will submit the State Budget Act. Isn't it clear to everyone that Monday's update is coming in and this thing is going to happen? And this thing is going to come true! And I don't know why we have to do this in a illegal way so that the Constitutional Court can challenge it and finally those professors and those people who expect us to get 20 million won't get anything?! That is to say, to be lied to by the same people here who we swear to uphold the Constitution and the laws. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u60	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I'm opening the discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Ganev. Then Mr. Panev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u61	Mr. Chairman, yes, we will support the granting of these funds for Bulgarian science. Yes, at the same time, however, we believe that what is being done is not right. Yes, we at ARGUING believe that when the budget was discussed just a few months ago, here in this Chamber the Minister of Finance made it clear that it is against this, as a result of which we have the cutting of this money and the failure and not giving them. Yes, the same minister was opposed to giving money to the Bulgarian museums and yet the House voted and released this money. And yes, to this day, this money has not been given by this same minister. And that is why we are currently in this situation that we need to discuss and to make a precedent that has not been legal since there is a Bulgarian Parliament 32 years in our latest history. On the other hand, however, neither I nor any of my colleagues in the parliamentary group can accept that on the back of the Bulgarian scientists there should be advertising of a specific party ruling along with the same minister, which I just described what, not to say machinations, what things he does and just not respect the budget and not release the money in question. And just days before it comes in to discuss the new budget, the updated, which will most likely be updated autumn for a number of reasons, we need to vote this thing out and put it in, and fight battles, and waste parliamentary time again. Why? Just days later today we will have a proposal for a new budget. Why is it being done? I repeat, we will support him. We in the Commission supported it and we are firm on it, and when this budget was discussed, we said that this money should be given. We had a concrete proposal that we made back then for 20 million to give to science. We saw what the finance minister did. This struggle in your coalition gives nothing good to the Bulgarian people. Nothing at all! You have been sitting and attacking each other since the beginning of this plenary session. One side, the other, I can't tell which of these two parties are ruling and which is the opposition, who jumps to whom and explains that it violates the Constitution. You're making a mistake. You are ruling and should not be done this way, because in the end nothing good will be achieved and you will not give anything to science or anything else, because you are breaking unwritten laws. Because here in this room there are former finance ministers and they will tell you that this should not be done because you are creating a precedent that will most likely pass. When you come here in this room and you enter, and you win elections, and you become a majority with your other coalition partners, on the back of practicing on GERB and explaining how bad they are, from the first day you've been following absolutely everything they've been doing for 12 years. Nothing new! You have neither changed nor introduced anything new. Nothing at all! [[Noise and lines.]] On the contrary, this is a new innovation. They never let themselves do it, you're doing it right now. I don't know how you think and how far you're going to go, but this unprincipled policy that comes from this room, from people who explain that it's a change, no, you're not changing in any way, in any sphere. And yes, we do not think that the Minister of Education should continue to be Minister of Education for a number of reasons. The complete disorder in his entire ministry, his inadequate policy during the so-called horse crisis, when he was making sick children with asthma, with medical opinions to go to school in masks, at risk for their lives. That same minister in this room explained that there was nothing he could do. The same thing is being observed right now. More than maybe a year he manages, through different ministries, different governments and at the moment. Complete irregularities in higher, secondary education in every field for which he is responsible. And now you're seeing it again. Sorry, he's in the lead of the draft party. We're continuing the Change. Minister of Finance is one of the leaders of this party. What if they don't sit down and talk about the money the finance minister won't give, who will?! Do we have to give them up?! And here are some scenes played out............... the BSP against this thing.... the draft party.. We continue the Change...................................... the Democratic Bulgaria is watching you from the side................................... and ultimately who wins winning?.............................................................................................................................................. Absolutely no one! We call for common sense, we call for you to take the decision. You are a coalition, someone to stand up, come out and say: "Colegi, in one week or in five days we will bring it in and this money will be given priority. " - You do not do it. Why? So the I.N.N. can do PR in front of the scientists? Well, we all supported this thing by the Financial Commission, and now it turns out that some are against it, and again by the government, and they don't want this thing to happen. From the government stand up and take hard policies, solve problems, and do not justify everything else. Do not justify yourself by war, by European directives, by world situation and by world conspiracy against you. No, you are collapsing yourself and this is another proof, but it is on the back of Bulgarian science. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u62	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines? Mr. Karimansky and then Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ganev, a very short line. I am not surprised that you speak on general policy topics when it comes to a specific debate. This is like you and your political party. But it surprises me every time a representative of your party comes out and when he has to make a statement, how unprepared he is with the data he may include in his statement. [[Applause by the MP Iskren Mitev.]] First, you know that I seek a uniform standard for all [[Laughter]] , and this single standard may be funny to you, but this uniform standard is, first of all, to inform yourself that the money of museums is already on their accounts. You know how much I and Mrs. Miteva have kept these funds there, and we've brought this up, but it would be nice if you wouldn't be fooling people when you go out on this stage. And the money from the Ministry of Finance is already in the accounts of the museums. I'm sorry you're so speculatively using your information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u64	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. [[(Private applause from]] Mr. Mitev, second line. I'm most worried about your lines, Mr. Mitev. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ganev, Mr. Karimansky has already said that, but I want to say it in his real words. How long are you going to fool people, Mr. Ganev, with your fictions here from the stands? It's not enough that you're unprepared, it's not enough that you don't have a single budget proposal, but you're telling her that the money for culture hasn't been given. The money was given for culture, Mr. Ganev. Stop lying from the stands. Who are you lying to? [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u66	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u67	Mr. Ganev, when you said about the museums, you had to add something very important. Two months in a row the Bulgarian museums invoiced and paid in their salaries this increase, which was voted on three or more months ago, and two months did not happen. Every month, both the accountants and the directors called and asked the Ministry of Culture when this money would be allocated to the Ministry of Finance, because it was actually set in the budget and so we voted. Only this thing didn't happen for one reason or another. Perhaps in your speech you should have emphasized that this money, for some reason, was slow yes, they have already been translated, but literally happened days ago, and after months of delay, which is really very inexplicable. That's what you should be focusing on, because otherwise you're now giving other people the opportunity to exercise on your back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u68	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Ganev, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u69	Mr. Karimansky, I'll answer you. On the face of fixing ties and making excuses in this unworthy way...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u70	Mr. Ganev, please get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u71	What has become clear from your statement is that you are ruling. And most likely the Minister you called, there is someone to pick you up and give you a specific answer in a ministry that refuses to implement an adopted budget and refuses only because the Minister has decided that he will not release money for museums, to delay it as much as possible. You heard the examples of when and how they invoiced and what museums did. I wouldn't know if yesterday, the other day this thing was done, it's a fact that two months is not done. I do not see how this changes the fact that you are making changes to the budget, after a few days here we will again consider the new budget in question. It doesn't change anything. It does not change the fact that you are making changes at the last moment, clearly disagreed with your coalition partners, making changes to prove that you have political activity in a given direction, given that you are ruling. You'd rather go out and say what I said, because that's the facts. The Minister of Finance refuses to do things that have been voted on in parliament. It is obliged and postpones them over time constantly, at the cost of suffering whole institutions, because these are not only cultural institutions, they are also educational institutions. That's the truth. Otherwise, we simply have nothing to comment on the attacks that you have made, they remain at your expense. Again, at least you have some weight on a person with some accomplishments in their lives, for the other individual there is no point in commenting. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u72	Mr. Ganev, I'm asking you to spare us such lines. You're welcome, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u73	Dear Mr. President, please do not allow this platform to mislead both the Members of the National Assembly and the academic community, the schools and everyone else that salaries are being invoiced. This must be a shame for the MPs who are in the Economic Commission, who are in the Budget Commission, that salaries can be charged at all... they are charged.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u74	Thank you for your clarification, Mr. Karimansky. Procedure yes, then Mr. Bikov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is with you. Please do not allow such definitions to Members of the National Assembly of the type of individuals. [[Noise and lines.]] That's extremely insulting. This is why the current National Assembly has such a low rating. When people who step on this platform use such a low language of speaking, this will be the final assessment of the National Assembly as a whole. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u76	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. You're right. Just to be clear, I made an immediate remark. Mr. Bikov, are you here for procedure? First, Mr. Bikov, then Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With one sentence. The individual is the foundation of liberal democracy and liberal theory. And you as future members of the Liberal Alliance should not be offended, but... [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u78	Depends on how it's used, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u79	I'm doing the procedure, Mr. Chairman. If you could also call Finance Minister Asen Vassilev. It is clear that this situation is complicated, which is happening at the moment, and its absence here, although the Bill has been tabled by MPs, is not justified. On the contrary, it must be mandatory here, because at the moment it is purely political what is happening is that it is being blamed by parliament. He must be here to say what he thinks and why it has come to this situation in which he loses the majority in parliament. Please call and come not out of respect for Parliament, but out of respect for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u80	Okay, this procedure is a little... Let's finish it, maybe with the invitation and then, Mr. Kostadinov, you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a counterproposal. Mr. Bikov, you voted the item to be on the agenda, why are you asking the President now to provide the finance minister? [[Noise and lines.]] This point has not been submitted by the Council of Ministers. You, with your voices, with the voices of the DPS and the I.T.N., and who else you accepted this point to be viewed. Well, get a financier to protect her. Why do you want the Finance Minister to come? The finance minister has not tabled a budget amendment when the finance minister will be here. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u82	So, I suggest... [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Valchev. You have a statement, but you want a procedure, but let's, first, Mr. Kostadinov. Just to say that I would ask to inform the Minister of Finance that GERB would like to see him here in the Chamber. Please make contact. [[(Laughter) Awesome.)]] Since not everyone wants it now, after all we have to pass on this information. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u83	My procedure to you, Mr. Chairman, is in the manner of conduct. Certainly you should have made a correction immediately in Mr. Ganev's speech, calling one of the MPs an individual. And also here very rightly one of the representatives of the ruling party "We continue the Change" said that it should not be called in such a way as some MPs. I agree completely. There are MPs who are not really individuals...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u84	Mr. Kostadinov, I can feel what you're going to say, please. [[Noise. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u85	So I really think you should have made such an adjustment. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u86	Now we're starting to make the debate completely off the ground. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a minute. Maybe in alphabetical order, I'll give everyone a procedure. Let Mr. Valchev go first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, my proposal is different from Mr. Bikov's. I think this is where the Minister of Education and Science should come. If we're blaming anyone today, it's the Minister of Education and Science. If there is an ideologist behind this provision, it is the Minister of Education and Science. He told the Education Committee yesterday that he had seen this provision in the Official Journal. I have a good memory, I remember that at the beginning of the year the importers told us that this text was proposed by Minister Denkov. I doubt very much that the obsessive reformer would be Mr. Gechev, I have not felt such ambitions from him to bind the attestation to the financing of the 20 million, on the contrary, Mr. Gechev most kindly wanted to provide these 20 million and to provide them more quickly. Another importer is Mr. Nastimir Ananiev. I very much doubt he's this ideologist of stenciled attestations. Maybe you forgot you were an importer. Normally, you signed out of coalition solidarity.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u88	Instead of him...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u89	The Minister of Education should come here today because we are blaming him with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u90	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. You've almost made your point. Please also inform the Minister of Education that another Member from GERB wants the Minister of Education to be here. Perhaps they should both be here in fact, but please inform their offices of this desire. Can we move on to speeches now, or are you holding on to your procedure? [[Noise and lines.]] For a procedure? No, not you, Mr. Bikov. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] Oh, you're leaving, okay. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u91	Mr. President, it follows that when we leave the Change Continue, you remind them that they, like Lena Borislavova, can also use Google to touch this technological novelty, and when they make procedures about how offensive it was to say the word "individual" to read that "invidive" is a concept with which a unit of living being is expressed, it can be both human and other biological species. In psychology, the individual is a carrier of personal qualities that build up his individuality. I can keep reading and educating them, but I don't think I need to. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u92	I'm curious, Mr. Svilensky. I'm asking you to let my colleague finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u93	I'd like to address you directly here. When yesterday there were frank lies and manipulations on the address of AGE, you did nothing, and now you are making an oral remark to Mr. Tsoncho Ganev that it was very insulting to use the word "indicating." I ask you with the same archin and in the same way to treat all parliamentary groups, because otherwise in your coalition you confirm the practice, when your representative is holding the meeting, to do it to the detriment of the opposition something that is not right and should not continue. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u94	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Let me say two words, though. You must have been impressed that Mr. Svilensky and I have been arguing the most since yesterday and first. Secondly, I tried yesterday, and don't pull my tongue now, to preserve the dignity of your group and your leader. Let's not make it so that in my explanations I have to say things that are not good to hear. I therefore propose that we proceed with the speeches now. Mr. Slavov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! My speech will be divided into two parts. First, by the nature of the bill, then by the form. By nature. Colleagues, I think that we can all unite around the idea that higher schools and teachers in them should receive an increase in their salaries, that they should increase the quality of higher education, that there should be some link between payment and quality and that all this should be done in accordance with the Law and the Constitution order. Surely § 17.. and here I fully support the motives of the importers, § 17 of the Budget Act does not meet certain basic requirements of the rule of law. One of them is not to have a flagrant violation of the Constitution or a contradiction with the Constitution, which is actually a large part of us is present with § 17, even now there is a pending case in the Constitutional Court. Secondly, § 17 is extremely problematic because, through provisions of the Budget Act, a regime is created that contradicts an explicit text in the Higher Education Act. This is also unacceptable and violates the rule of law. Should § 17 be repealed as quickly as possible? Yeah, you should. Now on the proposed bill. I will allow myself to become a constitutionalist and say the following: even if we agree with the arguments on the substance of the importers, we risk too much going beyond the borders of the constitutional rule of law if we support this bill today. That's probably a formal argument. The Constitution explicitly states in art. 87, para. 2 who may produce and be an importer of the Budget Act. I agree with much of the arguments of fellow importers, the logic that they have developed, but still in the presence of an explicit constitutional text, in the presence of a flagrant contradiction or coliseum with this constitutional text, too little room remains for us to interpret and interpret this constitutional text. That is, there is a serious risk that if we support this bill today, we create a dangerous precedent for our Assembly, which can be used today in a noble way, with a legitimate one, but tomorrow with less legitimate purpose. That is precisely why we will not support the Bill, given that after only 10 days in the National Assembly an update of the Budget Act is to be voted on, and there we will insist that there be a specific repeal provision of § 17. If I have to summarize, we have a legitimate objective that is shared by the majority in this House, but we have a legal instrument that is too controversial and too collusive to pursue this legitimate objective and we can enter into a serious constitutional problem. Only one hypothesis to develop. Parliament voted on the bill, the president vetoed it. The veto is undergoing a case at the Constitutional Court. We must not allow ourselves to enter into such constitutional procedures that can rather delay the solution of the problem than speed it up. Therefore, for me and my parliamentary group, the most logical solution is to wait for the Budget Act in 10 days and there to do the work that fellow importers are trying to do with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u96	Thank you, Professor Slavov. Mrs. Miteva, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Slavov, I see how difficult this must be for you. The Constitution in art. 87, para. 2 says: "The state budget bill is not saying anything, but it does not say anything. As the Constitution very clearly in all hypotheses, when an amendment is made, it has indicated it, starting from art. Article 84 of the Constitution and we're done with Art. 153 and next. There is clearly spoken, including the amendments and additions. We are talking here about the draft, yes, because the constitutional legislature was referring to the framework, fiscal policy, because indeed the State Budget Act is the policy of government. That's why you talk like that. But let us not formalise and go to all the amendments, because I asked the question: what is going on with the amendments. Then MPs should not touch between first and second votes, because they can change the whole framework between first and second votes. There is one text in the Public Finance Act, by the way, which says that the Budget Act should be amended when basic indicators are violated, but does not say These words are missing from the Public Finance Act. As in the Public Finance Act, there is a text that says that the Public Finance Act can only be amended by its law. However, there is also a lack of such a thing in terms of the budget. So I don't think we should speculate in this direction. Yes, the President may veto, but again I would ask why the President did not veto the Law on the Budget of the Casa, as amended by MP law, 2017? Why did the President not veto the Law on Measures, in which the Budget Act was amended, with a substantial amendment? This is indeed about an amendment that needs to happen, and which clearly violates the rule of law, the principle of legal certainty, the principle of stability. And here we really need to put on the scale what is stronger, because here it is clear that we have a violation of the Constitution regarding art. 53, para. 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Mr. Kulenski, for the second line, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Slavov, we from the parliamentary group of Firstly, to stop any speculation, we want to say that we support change in substance. In other words, to drop any conditions before educators in higher education institutions receive an increase in their remuneration. However, we do not support the way in which this aims to happen to this draft law, which has been proposed by MPs, namely you yourself said: the provision of the Constitution, in particular art. 87, para. 2 is clear that the State Budget Act is proposed by the Council of Ministers. So we're against the way this is happening. We call on him to wait. Next week we have the assurance that the Council of Ministers will submit a Law amending the state budget and then this will appear there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u100	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Mr. Valchev, you have the floor for the last line to this statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u101	Mr. Slavov, I have no intention of going into a professional debate with you. You're far better at constitutional law. We discussed in the parliamentary group the eligibility of this bill. There were different opinions, but the fact is that there were different opinions and what is the alternative opinion. The Constitutional text says: The draft with a definite article, that is, can be interpreted if we read literally and only the original bill, but we must never, of course, read only the letter of the law. What is the meaning of this provision in the Constitution? The view stands that only the Council of Ministers can make a balance of all policies of revenue, expenditure, the section of all state policies, public services, public activities within a common fiscal framework. This idea is also further developed in the Public Finance Act, which prohibits MPs from making proposals that affect revenue and expenditure, unless the source is provided. Yes, I agree with you that this is a risky change. Neither I nor we can say whether it is constitutionally appropriate. The Constitutional Court can say that. And in this sense we think that sooner or later he will be referred to and there will be a solution on the subject, but two alternative solutions are possible, in our view. One is that the MPs have no right to propose any changes to the State Budget Act. The question that Mrs. Miteva asked is raised: "Why can they make changes between first and second readings and cannot propose a bill that does not concern revenue and expenditure? " In the Accountancy Act there was a principle.. an advantage of the content over the form. I mean, we prioritize the form. One form is unacceptable. The other one's admissible. I'm just thinking. I'm telling you the other way around. The other possible decision of the Constitutional Court is that no changes can be made that affect revenue and expenditure, because revenue and expenditure are the essence of the budget. All I'm saying is that there are two interpretations. Yeah, it can wait, but I'm paying attention to the fact that yesterday the unions came out with a statement...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u102	The weather, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u103	Last words. ... told the Education Committee that their patience was exhausted and if there was no change in § 17 to speed up the provision of funds, they would take protest actions. The reason for this is not seven days. The reason is their lack of trust in the Minister of Education, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u104	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. For the doppelganger, Professor Slavov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank my colleagues for the lines. The debate we are leading is important because it outlines, to a large extent, the will of this Meeting to adhere strictly to the rules or, in a particular case, to circumvent them, interpret them or sometimes violate them. I prefer this Meeting to adhere strictly to the rules, without each day we witness arguments of decisions that are often around the rules. Therefore, accept it as constitutional Purism, but I continue to believe that especially when there is a dispute, and this dispute, on the one hand, we have a relatively clear constitutional text, on the other hand, we have arguments that are legal, to a large extent sustained arguments, I say it with respect to both Mrs. Miteva and Mr. Valchev, but the very fact that we have a dispute, and on the other hand, we have a constitutional text which, for a large part of the people, is clear and has not yet raised such a dispute, on the other hand, we have some arguments that are also largely legitimate arguments, but we from....................... we prefer to stand on the side of the constitutional text. Let this be constitutional purism. Let the parliamentary practice disprove me, but for me, this is the safer choice for us right now. And I will take the liberty of quoting one of the essays in James Madison's Federalist, which says: "Can we hope for paper barriers to the Constitution to harness the captivating spirit of power? " Well, no, we cannot hope for the Constitution alone without its control mechanisms to harness power. However, at least the first requirement is to adhere strictly to the text of the Constitution, and then, if this strict adherence to the text of the Constitution does not work, we should address the mechanisms of appeal, the Constitutional Court, the presidential veto, etc. That's what I'm gonna use to narrow my back. I thank my colleagues for their lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u106	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Gurov, I'll sign you up for a statement. Krasimir Valchev is now speaking in order of the enrolled and complying with the rule for rotation of the groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Why did it come to this? It has come to this because of the wish of the Minister of Education and Science to make a reform that is otherwise not in the wrong direction in the wrong way. Incorrect form is the commitment to budget funds. The proposal was incorrect between the first and second reading conceptual change, as Mrs Miteva said, without going through a public discussion without discussing with the Rectors the whole style of reform that the Minister demonstrated is how no reform should be done. In the worst possible way there was an adjustment of academic circles against each other. In the end, not one step forward, but what we are doing is one step forward two steps back. Why? Because we are also compromising future efforts for reform, and these reforms, I say, are necessary, useful, but they must be made smart and in a reasonable way. The second reason why it has been reached is the lack of policy regarding the financing of higher schools specifically with the budget for 2022. Two policies have been implemented in recent years. One is to increase the subsidy, depending on a complex assessment of quality and realization. In other words, these higher schools, which had better quality and realization indicators, received more funds each year. The second policy is a forwarding increase in minimum basic salaries for the various academic schools.. assistant, chief assistant, associate professor, professor. This policy was carried out in 2020 and 2021. As a result, the minimum remuneration in higher schools was higher than in the school education system. It's not like that this year. This year, this policy has been abandoned, but even worse, the other policy has been abandoned, which is to increase funding depending on the comprehensive quality assessment. That is, we had no policy in the budget, we had no relation of the Council of Ministers to the system of higher education. I paid attention to the Minister several times, but in fact the lack of politics is due to the lack of an increase in funds. The higher education system was ignored by the State Budget Act for 2022, unfortunately. Here I will congratulate Mr. Gechev once again because he did it during the discussion of the budget. He, again, said at the risk of repeating himself, wanted these funds to be provided, and more quickly, to state universities. Yesterday, the Minister of Education accused the MPs who put this text in that text for bringing it in without him knowing. He had seen it in the Official Gazette. What I want to know is who is lying right now: is the Minister of Education lying, or is Mr. Gechev lying? I know the answer to the question and I will tell you this: the Minister of Education lied quite disrespectfully to you yesterday. I do not know if it is a matter of lack of good coalition culture or something else, but this text should not have been proposed in this way... with the State Budget Act. Otherwise, the minister's other argument was that money should not be given without reform. If we want to have quality higher education, it depends, of course, on the attestation, on the requirements of teachers to students, but it also depends on whether we have enough minimum salaries for academic positions. Minimum salaries have a signal significance for people who are involved in an academic profession. If we want to have quality higher education, the best students should become teachers. To become the best teachers, we must have minimum salaries that exceed the average salary for the country. Again, the minimum wage has signal significance for future teachers. This was the policy that we pledged in 2020 and 2021. The Minister of Education challenged this. He said that as long as there are lecturers who do not meet the requirements, I am paraphrasing, we should not increase wages. This is like saying: in a garden, because we have fruit that is not good, we will not water it. Well, we won't have any fruit in the garden tomorrow. It's a conceptual reformer error. Yes, reforms must be made, but wages must also be increased. They must become parallel, but they must not be bound in this way, because otherwise we risk not having any fruit, not having any higher education if we abandon this set-up. The salaries of pedagogical staff must be 125% of the country's average something that we are continuing to change.The change has taken priority and deserved to be congratulated. This was actually our priority, but more importantly, it is embedded in the strategic framework during the last government with Prime Minister Borisov exactly the same, 125%. It is more important to have this political, public and budgetary consensus that teachers are important and their salaries must be higher than the average in the same way to become better teachers students in order to have quality education. Similarly, teachers' salaries should be at least 150% of the country's average. However, this step was not taken by the Budget Act, so it was necessary to provide these 20 million additionally. They're not enough, but they're a step. That is why I asked the Minister of Education to attend once again, I did not hear which of the two policies for him is more important: is the increase of the subsidy, depending on the comprehensive quality assessment, or the increase of minimum wages? The two policies are fighting in the medium horizon at least 3 years. After 3 years, internal structures can be coordinated, staff numbers with the complex quality assessment. Right now, these policies are fighting. I don't know what the Minister of Education's policy is, the Ministry's?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u108	Mr. Valchev, forgive me for interrupting you. Let's get back to the specific bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u109	I've asked a few times. This is important because it concerns the text proposed for change. These 20 million must be distributed in order between 38 higher schools. These are two alternative lines, two alternative texts. In order to make the right decision, we need to know what policy is. But this is a matter for the ruling majority. If you ask me, I will tell you what the policy should be, but the ruling majority and, in particular, the minister must say whether it increases depending on the comprehensive assessment or is given for an increase in remuneration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u110	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Are there any lines, coworkers? Here you are, Professor Gechev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u111	Thank you. My line, of course, is to my colleague, former Minister of Education Valchev, who, as a matter of fact, correctly recreated the disputes about when and where to provide the 20 million. lv. However, in the line I would like to make a collegial note. However, the backlog of the teachers' salaries in higher education institutions became drastic in a previous period of 15 years. And since it is also broadcast in the media, there are other MPs, it should also be said that we and other colleagues from the parliament, and in the committees.............................. and here in the Parliament, we have repeatedly warned the former governors that teachers' salaries in higher education institutions............ are........................ Your arguments, colleague Valchev, are accurate. There is no way we want teachers to stay on low wages or the best students not to become teachers. But that's why we're all guilty of some more, some less. So I suggest we don't pat ourselves in the chest and pretend to be heroes who save higher education and not go back too far. It's nice, I understand there's a general agreement that this money should go to the faculty, and so let the lawyers' colleagues say what's the best way without breaking the Constitution. In conclusion, this money should go to higher education institutions if we want to keep the best staff for teachers. In addition, colleagues are right that reforms must be implemented, as in all areas of the country, including the university system, there are problems. That means less going back who, where, what people remember, let's see how to secure the funds of higher education institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u112	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there any other lines, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Gurov. You have the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I would like to agree fully with what Professor Gechev said. Indeed, we have seen two major problems in higher education in recent years. They didn't happen in the last three months, but for some people to say 10, 15 years, in which other people were in charge. Both problems, as in the exhibition said the previous one, are, on the one hand, low pay, years of late payment for higher schools. I have worked in a system that is not public in the private sector. There is a very clear demand if there is quality, and the corresponding payment is offered. There is no need to seek state funds to sponsor a product that is good. But low pay is an accumulation of years. On the other hand, it is absolutely important for the development of higher education that money should follow the quality, i.e. to have a change in the attestation, in quality, a complex assessment of the quality that is produced in higher schools, and then things will work out. Now we're a little bit in the situation where we make a memorial with someone else's bread, and we say, "Behold, now we're not in power, you increase wages." Yeah, that was the idea, I agree, you need to raise the salaries. That's why these 20 million were separated, but they shouldn't have been handed out on a muck, they should have been tied to a quality assessment. This was also the proposed change by Professor Denkov. So, look, maybe not in the right way this amendment was made. We agreed and voted in the Budget Committee that this must be changed. Here comes the question of how to do this? My risk management approach is such that, yes, we need to see what risks we take and what sits next to it. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just a few more sentences. Several things have been said here about whether it is constitutionally appropriate or not "there is definitely a risk. We fear entering procedures that will put the National Assembly as a whole in a very difficult and unpleasant situation in order to achieve what? Let's get ahead of the budget update by a week or two weeks. I think we all agree that these changes and these funds must reach higher schools, but we propose that this be done in a riskless, fast way, which is through the budget update, in the next few weeks, that this problem be resolved without taking those risks that I mentioned. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u114	Thank you. Is there a third line, colleagues? I can't see. For the doppelganger, Mr. Valchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u115	Thank you. Sir, Gechev, there was a delay, yes. There has also been a fall in teachers' salaries in the last 30 years, forgive 25 by 2017. If you look, in a very large part of this period the average salaries of teachers were below the national average. But as a result of talks, as today is, I say again, a positive public, political, budgetary consensus has been reached that it must be at least 125% of the country's average. That's the same way we need to talk today. Yes, there was a delay, but again I tell you, in 2020, we regulated high wages and financed them. Why are we taking a step back now?! Okay, we're late, but even worse than being late is taking a step back right now. Let the funds be directed towards an increase in minimum wages as a complementary subsidy above that determined in accordance with art. 91, to provide additional funds with the update, to make the policy of increasing, depending on a complex quality assessment, that is, both policies can be made in parallel. We signed with higher schools agreements to optimize their structures where they are underrated, this thing being done separately. That is, the reform you are talking about and the increase in funding to happen and the system to go for the better. You said 10 years, but for these 10 years two and a half of them, the current Minister Denkov was Minister and Deputy Minister. This is during the ten years of GERB you are talking about. He was in charge of higher education and, along with him, I was Secretary General, we made changes that, I dare say, were unpopular, painful for higher schools, the reception was cut in over 30 professional directions. The social, economic and legal sciences with 60% cut the reception. See some higher schools such as the Business Academy in Svishtov and others, five times their reception has been reduced. But higher schools adopted this reform. They almost agreed to beat themselves up. Why? Because she was properly compromised. That is, if a reform is made correctly, if it is taken with the appropriate steps, it will lead to the positive result that we all expect. So be more careful to criticize these 10 years, because in those 10 years and Minister Denkov was responsible for higher education. Last: why not update? Of course it can be done with the update, but again I tell you, yesterday the committee read the protest statements. The union committee said they're running out of patience. Why are they running out of patience just because they don't believe? They already have the painful feeling that they're being bullied. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Minister Denkov simply had to say: yes, I agree with these funds to be given this year for an increase in remuneration, and with the update to finance the increase of funds depending on a comprehensive quality assessment and we will make the reform of the attestation agreed with the academic community, especially with the Rectors Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u116	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. To speak, Mr. Krum Zarkov. You have the floor, Mr. Zarkov. I will tell how my colleagues are recorded in order in which I will give the floor: Andrei Gyurov, then Mrs. Belobradova and then Mrs. Philip Popov. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! One of the most commonly used phrases of this tribune is the rule of law or the rule of law. It has many dimensions, but perhaps the most characteristic of them is that all organs and all individuals are subject to the law, even the supreme ones. Naturally, when you are the Supreme Constitutional Authority, as the National Assembly is, the control over whether you follow your own rules is by definition weaker, there is no above you or indirect, the Constitutional Court is pronounced only if it is addressed, the presidential veto can be overcome and remains a great guarantee to respect the......................................................................... And here I find the role of lawyers in parliament a soft role and often a painful role because you have to face legitimate public expectations, such as those of teachers, against your own group, where MPs are driven by the emotion of the day or by your reception, to put them in the framework of the Rules and the Constitution, understanding that this is not a delay or obstacle to the process, but a guarantee of its effectiveness. It's a heavy role, it's ungrateful, and usually others don't love you. Only yesterday in the Legal Commission were we faced with such a very difficult problem for pedophiles, where MPs want to do something and we tell them: we will do it in a week when we are done with the text, so that it does not turn out that instead of writing eyebrows, we pierce eyes, and this happens every day. That is today's issue, on constitutional grounds. Many things have been heard and, of course, I cannot plead to be the last instance and I would never do so. But the Constitution here seems pretty clear to me: the State Budget Bill is being drawn up and tabled by the Council of Ministers. Another provision states that it is accepted by the National Assembly, where is the possibility of amendments between first and second readings. As a matter of fact, the comparative constitutional analysis shows that the Bulgarian Constitution gives a huge field for legislative initiative to the MPs. Other constitutions do not require a certain number, groups are required to avoid the proliferation of continuous proposals. There is only one constraint here, the constitutional legislature has introduced only one restriction, only one, and this is the State Budget Act. It is not the Law on the DEO, it is not about the NHIF, which are related, naturally, but are imported, examined and voted separately. Why is that? Because today, when we accept it, if we accept this proposal, between first and second readings can rain any proposals, and the guarantee that they are coming out of the scope is not serious enough, as the majority that has accepted it today can accept it tomorrow. This is because the budget more than any law requires stability and it in itself is an act of particular importance. When I say that, I move on to the next topic. Indeed, since there is a consensus in the ruling majority and, as far as I understand, in the coalition, about the decision on the substance and after a few days of updating the current budget, which has been put in place in accordance with the procedure set by the Constitution, then this initiative and this debate are indeed becoming largely incomprehensible. I am ready, I suppose, and you, admit that it is the same people that put this issue on the table that it is they who initiate the abolition of this paragraph and that they have convinced the coalition with the update to remove it, and it seems completely resonant and fair to me. The opposite would mean setting a relatively dangerous precedent where the tens of paragraphs in the Transitional and Final Orders in the State Budget Act can be placed in a different form of discussion on a daily basis. One of the brightest characteristics of the importers of this law in my view is that they adhered to the understanding of parliamentaryism and rules. Today, this action, which wants to outrun the initiative by 12 days, is really largely incomprehensible and would have relatively severe political consequences, since the vote on the Budget Act together with the vote on the election of the Council of Ministers and the vote of mistrust are those litmus that determine political majorities. I will end with the following: understandable is the initiative, it is good that there is such sensitivity, but I think there are enough ways to do this within and by the rules, because once you cross a rule, then the spiral is only down. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u118	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. For a line, Mrs. Miteva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Zarkov, we have never crossed the rules or the Constitution for these three parliaments before. I would ask you to point out to me when I violated the Constitution or the Rules of Procedure I am talking about myself or my fellow Members from my parliamentary group. In respect of art. 87, para. 2 there is no interpretation of the Constitution on this text, so that everyone has the right to submit a request to the Constitutional Court and to request an interpretation of this provision so that there is no speculation. There are many decisions of the Constitutional Court when there is a request to declare unconstitutionality of texts from the Budget Act, the Casa, the DVO, they are always seen and you know that the principle is basically the same and the rules are the same for the three budgets. The Constitutional Court in all these decisions speaks very clearly about this precisely about fiscal policy, the framework, revenue, expenditure and their violation, but there is no talk of not being able to submit such bills at all, especially in this case, if we have to make a technical mistake or if we have to correct something that is clearly unconstitutional. What really weighs the Court of Justice not to declare the norm unconstitutional, or to accept this amendment at the moment?! Moreover, the Constitutional Court has also changed its practice, so that this law, if adopted and attacked in the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court, says that the MPs cannot pass such laws and declare it unconstitutional, will not come up. In other words, a void will appear and this text will not be there and then will be applied directly art. 1, para. 5, t. 2.9, where the funds are available for an increase and will be given directly for an increase as it was for museums, that is, there is no problem at all. Paragraph 17 simply created some conditions and it was absolutely unnecessary, created some conditions that were absolutely unnecessary and unacceptable, but then it was the wish of the Minister of Finance. Why don't we wait for the update? First, the update is not clear whether it will happen for these 10 or 12 days and we have not seen any update. There is such a people. The text of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Budget we have not seen. I don't know, and you might have seen it. On the other hand, when I asked the question of the amendment to this text, I was told: yes, it will be amended, but only by art. 57 of the Law on Higher Education. We do not accept to have our hands twisted and do not accept the amendment of § 17 to be made through compulsory reform of the Law on Higher Education and Art. 57 without in-depth debates and without the entire academic community sitting down and saying their. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Is there a second line? I can't see. Mr. Gurov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Yes, Mr. Zarkov, he seems to have different opinions. I'm not a lawyer, and I have an opinion on that. I mentioned it already that it seems quite risky to me the whole situation, and apparently there are different views that there might be, I don't know. Since it hasn't happened before, there's a reason, so yes, I have an opinion of my own, but apparently there is another opinion. That is why I said that this is a huge risk, on the one hand, to enter into some procedure that will create precedent, open up opportunities for changes between first and second reading and open Pandora's box at all. There's something else I'd like to point out here. At the moment we are talking about saving a week, two weeks, and I absolutely agree with you In the entire coalition there is understanding, and Mr. Valchev mentioned, yes, we need to change this thing and we will change it. However, we should also note that today we are already dealing with a procedure that is questionable in order to save five days. What about the other legislative activity and the things that await us under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, the entire legislative programme that we have to adopt?! Is this really the agenda at the time of society to save some five days by wasting valuable parliamentary time by questioning the whole procedure after there is a view that this should happen and will happen within this month? That's my question. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u122	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Is there a third line, folks? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Miteva, I will not enter into a discussion on the substance of the arrangements and the relationship to the education system and higher education in particular. You said yourself she deserved a deep debate. I do not think that this debate can be done in this way, and this is one of the reasons why the Constitutional legislature has limited this possibility. I will not allow myself to point out violations of the Rules of Procedure on your part or not on your part, because everyone probably has. The question is, do we have control mechanisms as a hall and as a majority not to let it go to the end? I think the reading of art. 87 of the Constitution by its first paragraph, which defines the legislative initiative and the second, which is restrictive, is sufficiently clear. I think this reading has been further developed in the Public Finance Act, and you yourself said that you are planning proposals between first and second readings. 119, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act also explains that additional costs or changes to the consolidated framework are not allowed unless initiated by the Council of Ministers. After this debate, it is likely that this issue will reach the Constitutional Court, but this does not change the fact that the budget update will most likely come in very soon and, at best, this bill will be linked to the other one, that is, even speed is unlikely to be achieved. But here I want to tell you something. Why am I not saying that you violated the rules in this case? Because, Mr. Gurov, thank you for your reply and I take the opportunity to say with all due respect that this bill should not have been distributed on the committees and that makes me think of that line by General Charles de Gaulle that the politician is a man who can say no. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u124	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Kullensky? Mr. Gurov doesn't want the floor to be spoken. Mrs. Belobradova, come in and then Mr. Philip Popov. Colleagues, I'm just warning you that today I'm going to give a break at 11:15, so that we can be in this room at twelve to fifteen, and I call on most of you to be here at 12:00, so that we can honor today's date.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As a member of the Committee on Education and Science, I would like to draw attention to § 17 itself in substance, colleagues, and I would repeat some of the arguments that have been made so far. It gives the impression that we draw a loophole for much greater changes in the system of higher education and bind costs with very rapid results. Real § 17 is a mistake in not understanding how the academic community works at all, because we cannot, in a single paragraph of the Budget Act, buy a quick reform that has a fundamental strategic character. There cannot be one paragraph in the Budget Act and it cannot be the stick with which we will bring this same reform. We owe the academic community a broad and thorough debate, not to threaten them with a lack of funding. Today, we also have a second problem - we are trying to correct a mistake in a way that is impossible and unacceptable. It doesn't make things better. It just makes them worse. We are one month from the budget update, fellow Members, let us not do any further controversial action to correct a paragraph which is extremely controversial in itself, let us not set precedents to which we will then refer for years to come. We owe to this stage of the academic community the budgeted funds unconditionally because reform is not being made under threat of impoverishment, as if we have exhausted any other means, provided that we are not. With the update, the money will actually get there as quickly as possible and then it will be time to open a wide discussion on the reform of the attestation. As far as this bill is concerned. The phrase that I most often hear these days is, "I'm not a constitutionalist, but... and this phrase is beginning to reflect the situation we've been in lately. Let us support the most secure way and an undisputed way for the academic community through the budget update and apologize for the situation. Thank you. [[(Private applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Cholakov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Belobradova, I very much liked the introduction of your speech, in which you made a very nice analysis of how wrong § 17 is and I very much liked what you said, how you could not under the threat that a money would be stopped, to make a reform. It really is such a forceful, dictatorial act. In a democratic society like ours, it shouldn't be done that way. At the same time, however, you have said a little further: let us not make controversial amendments to a text that is extremely controversial and this amazes me, fellow Members. Have you noticed how many tiny pebbles we have in our shoes? Some such legal imperfections, some omissions in the laws, this has happened in absolutely all legislation, and it is objectively conditioned. I'm not going into long analysis right now, but if there's a little pebble in the shoe, colleagues, why don't we take it out? Look from the opposition we have no interest in helping you right now, because in the end, if we understand correctly, § 17 has opened a problem to the majority. Well, if you're yelling, if we're irresponsible people, the deeper this problem gets, the better you turn some communities against you, turn them against you. I say again, thinking about how to make our lives more orderly and calmer, why, if there's a little pebble in the shoe, shouldn't we take it out? What's more controversial? Is it debatable to change now § 17, because the Constitution is in the way or what? Do you understand? We are reasonable people, and if we put things on the balance of the scale, it seems more reasonable to me right now to take the pebble out of the shoe than to have a constitutional debate in which I would like to take part, but right now it doesn't make any sense. The question is, can you solve the daily problem, or can't? If you can't, health it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u128	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there any other lines to Mrs. Belobradova's statement? I won't. You have the floor for the doppelganger, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Cholakov, the Constitution cannot be an obstacle. The constitution is the basic law that we have to comply with. Yeah, right now we're really debating whether, in fact, taking a little pebble out of our shoe, we're not putting on a huge stone that we can't even move on with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. Colleagues, in order to alternate the groups, I will give the floor to Mr. Tsonev, as no one has spoken from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Although the statement is essentially, I cannot fail to go through the procedure and the way in which the Budget Act is being amended, and I believe, of course, that this is not constitutionally appropriate. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] If we listen to each other and not only applaud what is pleasing to us, we will not have to compromise here, nor do we have to break rules, Constitution, laws and so on, because the National Assembly is not the Teatro alla Scala. We should know that there is a Constitution, there are laws, there are Rules, and it should be respected whether we are interested or not. So much for the procedure and whether it should go on, whether it should have been stopped. But why did you have to act in that order, that's why I want to stop, because no one actually messes deeply with the wound. Is there a need? This was about a reform that would improve the quality of the academic process, the attestation process and so on. Okay, we're all convinced this needs to happen. Do you pay attention to the way it happens? You believe that what the Minister of Education proposed by Mr. Academician is the way in which the quality of the attestation process should be improved, the quality of the academic process at all? Uh, no, guys. This is a new dependence on Soros organizations. Let me ask you: these scientific publications, which are included in the database labeled as Scopus, are on an English-written abbreviation, scientific articles, studios, reviews, chapters of books, monographs or collections, and another organization, "Vioes," they are non-governmental organizations whose? Why doesn't anyone talk about these things here? How could a professor, a research worker, or an assistant, or even an academic employee have to depend on some private, non-governmental organizations we know in whose circles they are? So, what is it now that we are putting the entire academic community again, their career development, depending on it alone? Excuse me, we have been monitoring this process for 25 years in Bulgaria. Starting here, from this tribune, to talk about addictions to certain circles and start smirking instead of starting sniffles. This is why this case arises, colleagues from BSP. And when you take the letter of the law, of the Constitution and of the Rules, you are right, but in essence you should not support such a reform of the Minister of Education because this is not a reform. This is a total dependence on some circles and then you wonder why universities are not Bulgarian and teach nothing Bulgarian, and then you wonder who to blame what is going on there and why everyone who wants to have a career will defend the causes of those people who are not always our causes, even if we swear on the same Euro-Atlantic values, there is nothing common about our geopolitical orientation. Absolutely nothing in common! From this point of view, you can look at our vote today in a deeper sense, because if we allow such a reform, we will be reformed everywhere and in kindergarten. I am surprised not to say like Iva Miteva, I am amazed by how you lightly let things that are deeply true for the Bulgarian society, for the Bulgarian higher education, for the academic, scientific sphere and so on. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u132	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Professor Mikhailov for a line. By the time the professor starts his speech, I would like to congratulate the guests from 32 schools of Kliment Ohridski. Welcome! [[Applause.]] Come in for a line, Professor Mihailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonev, because you started talking, as some people say, about science, and I will try to answer you very seriously. First of all, the purpose of this bill is not to condemn academician Denkov. Secondly, the reform must start elsewhere. He's trying hard to start something. He himself never said that all his actions were right. The Commission's attempts at education is to reconcile somewhat, but the insinuations that Scopus and other indices belong to some mysterious societies that we will become dependent on, that borders on fantasymagories that I do not want to comment on. They are not worthy of a man like you, who, I think, when talking about science, should be quite accurate, so let's not condemn academician Denkov here. He's trying to do something. I will ask you one question: how long will we pretend that we do not see that there is no serious science in Bulgaria; how long will we pretend that we do not see that we do not give anything for science; how long will we pretend that we do not see that we are breaking up the higher education of hundreds of educational institutions where the principle: The money goes after the student, have become the feeder of this and that? Svishtov thus collapsed a unique school with huge traditions. How long are we gonna keep pretending we don't see all this? And this bill can only open Pandora's box. Our science is in a tragic situation. Young people don't want to do science. They run abroad on foreign teams, they don't come back here anymore. Ask yourself this question, but not to academician Denkov. He's trying to do something, let's help him as much as we can. And I do not agree with many of the things that this reform is currently trying to implement, but to anthemize the experience... I'm even a little uncomfortable here and a minister I respect very much, Mr. Valchev, and he tried to attack him in front of him. I'm trying to help with something where he's wrong, to point out, because really the criteria in all areas, I can say in the field of biological, medical science, it's very difficult to use these indices because we don't allow us to publish. I have publications in Lancet and in the New England Journal because I have participated in international research teams. Otherwise a Bulgarian survey, a Bulgarian scientist to be admitted to such magazines, this is impossible, and in humanitarian countries, some countries pay their scientists to publish, give them money for it, and our country gives nothing. This is a very long dispute, but this debate is not aimed at what you have said here. I was a little surprised, unpleasantly surprised by it. Maybe you can explain it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u134	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Colleagues, because many of you want lines, I will give the opportunity to those who first stated Mr. Georgi Ganev and Mr. Krasimir Valchev. I'm sorry to the rest of my colleagues who won't be able to deal with it. Here you are, Mr. Ganev for the second, and Mr. Krasimir Valchev for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line, of course, is to the respected colleague Yordan Tsonev. I fully agree with the view that the proposed change is contrary to the Constitution. That's what I've been saying since the last few days I've consulted some of my acquaintances who are constitutionalists. That's their opinion. The final judge on these issues is always the Constitutional Court, that is, everything is going on at the moment. In this sense, I fully agree with you. Regarding your claim that Scopus and Web of Science are non-governmental organizations. That's a false statement. Scopus is owned by the Dutch publishing house, the Netherlands publishing house Esevier.. one of the oldest, with huge scientific literature, publishers in the world, which is for profit, private company, and Web of Science is owned by Clarivate, which is a subsidiary of Reuters. It's not a non-governmental organization. It is also a well-known world news agency "Thomson Reuters" specifically, which also works for profit. These are paid services, not gifts from NGOs. Here I have to say that I have been a lecturer at Sofia University for 25 years, so I certainly have some interest in my thinking on this issue, although I am currently on unpaid leave. I can assure you that especially at our university have great importance horizontal networks organised by the world's own scientists databases such as Academy.edu or for example ResearchGate, which are not non-governmental. These are horizontal networks created by the scientists themselves in the world so that the contribution of each one of them can be measured. In our university they also have weight. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm coming. As far as reform is concerned, there is one danger. The danger lies in the subtitle. We have to make it a perfect reform. We have to never do it, and just ask for some money. How do we avoid it? How do we avoid it so there's still a reform against money? How do we do that? I'm asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u136	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Valchev, you have the floor for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u137	Mr. Tsonev, you are right in that it was the proposed changes to the science indicators that blew up the academic community, not the benchmarking methodology, not § 17 of the transitional provisions of the Budget Act, but the changed science indicators. In fact, we had such science metrics in 2017 and 2018. It was difficult to make them in multiple iterations mode at the time. Why did they blow up the academic community? Because they are unrealistic as achieving goals, because they were developed in an insufficient mode of publicity and transparency, because it was not in line with the specifics of the different professional directions and areas of higher education that the representatives of different higher schools and different areas of higher education say. What is worth discussing is whether to make a change in the Law on the Development of the Academic Staff............................................................................ The problem of these databases here and Mr. Ganev is right in what he said they were paid. We want higher schools to publish in these databases, but it's expensive for teachers. Often a publication is worth 5,000. BGN, or more than 2 thousand. Euros. On the one hand, we will not give them remuneration, we will give them remuneration when you publish, and on the other hand, they say we do not have money to publish, we do not have funds to publish on purpose in these databases. They do not have enough reference publications from the humanities, they are also damaged by scientists from social, economic and legal sciences, which are mostly of a national nature. So we still have an inequality there and we can't have the same number of references. This is a serious problem that stands in front of the naucometric indicators. Here I return to the words about reform and Professor Mihailov's words that trying is a good thing, but it's bad when you make them bad. They're compromising the next trial. Sometimes it is better not to try, unless the goal is to demonstrate a desire for reforms. What is more important to demonstrate a desire for reform, or to do it with reasonable steps, not only reasonable, but frankly enough? What has not been done is the reform to be proposed in an honest way with a change between first and second readings, with the setting of academic circles against each other, with the desire to hear more voices, with a sense of self-sufficientness and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u138	Thank you, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u139	Otherwise, we support Professor Denkov for his direction and for his intentions for reforms.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u140	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. For the duplicate, Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am actually pleased with all three lines because they have come into the heart of the problem and outlined it. A reform is needed and academic Denkov is trying to make it. Professor Mihailov said that he respects his experiences and that these attempts should be encouraged and supported. That's pretty much what my colleague Ganev said. How do we do the reform? How do we do that? Let's give money, but how do we make it? In general, all three lines I allow myself to respond in general... why I believe that there was one common denominator in the lines and it is that there should be reform; that there are attempts to make such a reform; and last but not least, that what Academician Denkov is trying to do, meets resistance from academic circles for various reasons....................... is there is no money for publications and so on. I'm not pretending, colleague Ganev, that I was punctual. I accept your line as more accurate factology, but to answer the question of how reform is being made, because I have the right to do so. The strongest, deepest and most real reforms in the transition were made in the period 1997. Even if you will, because the weather was like this and required it. Do you know how we did every reform back then? It was known how it began and how it ended, how it was known how and when it was going to happen.................................................................................... We start in 1997 and in 2001 the whole will look like this. What are these trials? What do you mean, "experience"? We try one, we support it, we'll see how it goes, we'll see how it goes, we'll see how it goes, we'll try a mistake and so on. Let's see what this reform looks like first, second, third, fifth, first year, second, third, fourth, fifth. Let's unite everyone around her and whoever comes to power to finish her off. By the way, this happened during the SDS.. came to power the government of NDSV and DPS and completed most of these reforms which had not been launched. Does anyone agree with them? Professor Mihailov, I wasn't laughing at all when you were giving me a line, but I just took it very seriously because I respect you. It seems to me that you should take what I'm saying seriously right now, at least because I have made such reforms. Some may have had defects, but the fruits of these reforms have been going up for 30 years. I will give you just one example of 20 billion gross domestic product, now we have 140 billion and this is precisely the result of these reforms. For how many years? For 20 years? Who does that? In both education and healthcare, there is a need for reforms everywhere, but everywhere must be made clear, not in pieces and not those who have money, or those to whom certain circles, Mr. Ganev, will give money. Certain universities, as far as I know from Professor Chobanov, are soon given back to some eight universities, yes, they have such money and others are not given. They're not given by the state, they're given elsewhere. I probably didn't really express myself correctly, but in general, the trend is this and we know it very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u142	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Professor Mihailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u143	Just for a minute. Mr. Tsonev, it is not forbidden for a person to smile, but because you said at the time of the UDF, I remember what the President of the UDF called you and you very seriously then reacted for a reason. Do you remember what he called you the then president of the UDF? I will remind you of several reforms that happened at the time: the privatisation of the machinery, the sold enterprises and the catastrophe of many parts of the Bulgarian industry; the health care of the commercial companies after 20 years "700 million debts." [[(Replicates from the IHN parliamentary group: What personal attitude is this?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] That's why you're giving me a smile because it started something at the SDS and it's finished at the NDSV and the DPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u144	Thank you, Professor. Colleagues, I'm giving it till 11.50. Again, I call on you to be more in the Chamber at 12:00 to honor the work of Hristo Botev and those who died for the freedom of the Fatherland. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u145	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. There are three colleagues registered for speaking, but I do not see any of them in the Chamber. I'm resuming the hearing. Philip Popov, Lyubomir Karimanski and Petar Chobanov are recorded for speech. While we are waiting for one of those recorded who wishes to speak, I would like to remind you that 12:00 is approaching when we will interrupt for a short time when we hear the sirens. Today we bring our head down before the personality of Hristo Botev, before his feat and his work. 146 years have already separated us from those heroic days, which seal in the minds of all Bulgarians the memory of the great poet and revolutionary. His example and his dedication to Bulgaria are still needed today. And let us remember and honor the bright ones in our history, let them be an example to us, for we can learn from them pure and wholehearted love for the Fatherland. Let us be worthy heirs of the ideas, deeds, and covenants of our ancestors. Bow to the bright memory of Hristo Botev and those who died for the freedom and independence of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Applause.]] When it's 12:00, I'm just gonna ask you to stand up. Mr. Chobanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a real obligation and this paragraph that we are discussing, it really has its deeper meaning, and we have begun to enter it already. It is therefore good that this issue has been raised, even in this procedural form, which has been chosen. What do we see in higher education that is directly related to this paragraph? By the way, this paragraph, its original form in the budget, represents nothing but an attempt to trade, I give 20 million against which I impose my opinion, and it imposes it without the necessary discussion in society, which, of course, does not cover the announced objectives of this government. What else have we seen in higher education since the middle of last year? Then in an absolutely opaque way a selection of so-called research universities was made. Isn't it science we're also talking about how to meet higher standards, higher quality? Well, then, in the public discussion that was adopted with regard to selection, it was time to cut to a week. All other observations on the substance which concerned that this ranking should be made not by universities but by scientific directions were ignored, namely scientific directions are important and the relevant quality of the universities is demonstrated there. The university can't be good at everything, even though we wish it was. But anyway, then seven universities were selected to be research, because of the fact that he was in a hurry with the Recovery Plan. The recovery plan is not yet a fact or at least is not implemented either in theory or in practice. What happened a few days ago? These same universities, they were allocated additional funds with the Order of the Council of Ministers precisely for scientific achievements, i.e. to be able to publish in the databases in question, to which Mr. Tsonev paid very good attention. And since there are many magazines there, some of the arguments he said about their sorosoid character are valid for some of them and I can most strongly state it. So there's a distinction, there's your magazines in which to publish, it's required to pay. Is that science? And even if it's science, should we join this particular trade part of science? And should we not pay attention here in our country, especially in the field of social science, social science, what is really useful as a scientific achievement? This is to make, for example, a strategy to be used by institutions to implement reforms. Now this is applied science, this should carry much more points in a similar ranking, not what we are currently seeing - the commercialized publication in Scopus/Web of Science, which as a scientific contribution in Bulgaria at the moment is equal to zero, all the more so that it is difficult to publish, although many people who have reported such publication have no publications in such databases. I don't want to brag, I have publications and I am a reviewer of similar magazines, but those who are really developed, those that we really want to strive for, there is paid. The state will give part of the universities of their own discretion the opportunity to publish there for the corresponding payment, which is called stimulus, as by the way, is also with the so-called program "Stefan Stambolov" whose name is not appropriately chosen, which we talked about in the Education Committee, which will also stimulate the training of talented Bulgarian children, but only 10 per year, in Sorosoid universities. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u147	For a replica.. Anton Tonev. Here you are, Professor Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Professor Chobanov! In my line, I only have two questions. First of all, congratulations on being a reviewer in, I hope, without understanding your discipline, in a reputable magazine, but my questions are brief. First of all, is this a free-access magazine? And second of all, do you get a fee for the work you do for him?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u149	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Is there a second line to Peter Chobanov? Goodness Belev, come in. Third line, Professor Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Chobanov! It is not true that all magazines that are indexed on Scopus/Web of Science are paid. Absolutely not. There are those who are both free access and free, so whoever wants can publish there. If the direction of your speech is towards high quartiles, it is true that they are usually paid, yes. However, the debate is different, not about education. The debate is precisely about the way money should be given, which Minister Denkov is trying to bring into reform. And here with Professor Mihailov, I absolutely agree that reform is being started. It needs to be supported. But when the debate on higher education comes, then we can essentially say that. Let's not dwindle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u151	Thank you, Mr. Belev. [[The time is 12:00. They're sirens. All become straight and honor the memory of Botev and those who died for the freedom of Bulgaria.]] Here you go, Professor, for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Professor Chobanov, I think that the focus of the debate, including in all speeches, and in your own, has partially shifted. Because if, with all due respect to you as a scientist, if we realize what 20 million is in scientific investment or in the publication vector, you will realize that things are not essential. Here somehow the whole debate becomes for me a ridiculous PR of this or that, on issues fundamental to the Bulgarian science, to which Parliament has not yet taken a definitive attitude, and Minister Denkov may be unwise, partly, but is trying to discuss this issue. My suggestion and remark to you is that rather we should all think about what are the main things that should happen in Bulgarian science? And that is why Krum Zarkov was right, when at the beginning of this morning, we are already the fourth hour in this absolutely empty debate, because nothing will be decided with this 20 million, to see in the budget update in Budget 2023, again I allow myself to repeat to you, the funds that are being given for science in Bulgaria are extremely insufficient. Leave that $20 million alone, not enough. Because in order to publish something and to provide you with funds to publish it, I will only tell you that in the field of clinical medicine, investments in the order of several billion, not several million levs, are needed in order to bring a new molecule into the market. That is, the issue we are discussing at the moment is very, very, very, very, how to say, in a ridiculous way loxiated in this debate, and I would rather expect you in your backyard to show both your and your party how to deal with the problems of science as a whole, which we can solve as a parliament through the Budget Act. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u153	Thank you, Professor. Here you go, Mr. Chobanov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, in line with the lines. Maybe I'll start with the second one. Yes, I said that some of the magazines, just from the high quartiles, were paid, that is, there is no contradiction in what I said, and that is why to the first line. Yeah, this magazine is from the third quartile. It's open access, and I don't get a fee for being a reviewer. This is purely from my desire for scientific development and to get acquainted with such articles, which are useful for such development, but will certainly be useful for what we are talking about here, and if we try to make a really meaningful debate about what should happen in Bulgarian science. What we're talking about right now is that $20 million is for wages. They are for salaries rather for teaching, they are not for wages for science, for scientific achievements, or for publications. And it's not a simple question, this reward for teaching. We cannot resolve this, firstly, because the budget for this year was not adopted in time, and secondly, because we put restrictive texts in order to trade with influence on what to happen to give this elementary 20 million for wages. That is to say, a deep reform that has not yet been discussed in society. And I agree, yes, Parliament is the place where we should discuss reforms when the ruling majority is ready for this. This is where we really need to discuss the Euro Plan and the Strategic Plan for the euro, if any, with all the legislative changes that need to be made and which the European Central Bank suggests. No less important is the Bulgarian science, because without the Bulgarian science and its connectivity and its importance for practice, we will not make a valuable reform. And that is why I said: for us are not important publications in the first or second quartile of Web of Science and Scopus, it is important for us that Bulgarian science really produces and supports governance, including because a strategy that will then be implemented in practice, which will value a reform that will answer how much it costs, what the benefits and costs of a reform and what it will bring us as results, is much more useful than publishing on the Web of Science and Scopus and the state or any of us to pay 3000 euros. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. The next statement is Ljubomir Karimanski. And then Philip Popov. [[Reply from MP Lyubomir Karimanski.]] Okay, if you give it to him, it's okay. I'm just trying to alternate the groups and because there was no speech from your group and from the BSP for Bulgaria there was, so I approached it this way. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Karimanski, thank you too! Dear MPs, the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria will support the so-called change in substance, but only when there is absolutely no doubt about the unconstitutionality of the proposed proposal, when there is no doubt about legitimacy, competence, the powers of importers when it comes to the State Budget Act. There is such a doubt in the present case, to put it mildly. It is no coincidence that in the Bulgarian Constitution the powers of the state budget or its amendment and addition are implicitly recorded. And these powers are exclusive and only imperatively written down and given in the Constitution of the Council of Ministers. It's not an accident! The constitution is a legal-normal ruling of the highest rank, with the highest power on fundamental values and principles for the exercise of power in the state. When these principles, these values are violated, albeit procedurally, it means a coup d'état of power in the state. Here some MPs said that, you see, revenue and expenditure did not change with this proposal, but budget policy, which is exceptional, and I repeat, from the competence of the Council of Ministers, is determined precisely through the budget. He must have his stability. This policy goes far beyond the revenue and expenditure of the budget. It covers the very structuring of the budget, methods and ways of spending public funds through the budget. Imagine if every member of the parliament starts a legislative initiative on changing the structure of the budget, on the methods of spending, then there will be no predictions, there will be no predictability, there will be no possibility for the state administration to implement the policies set out in this budget. That is why I see that this is an absolutely unwarranted risk here we are talking about a week, with the creation of this precedent. That is why we will support the substance, I repeat, this change, yes, it is necessary, but then, when it is tabled in due order by the Council of Ministers and this will happen next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u157	Thank you, Mr. Popov. The line from Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Popov, nice and admirable that you would support something in substance, but if it is procedurally not contrary to the Constitution or the laws. Now may I remind you of the month of May and the forty-fifth National Assembly, when I told you from this tribune that the National Assembly cannot impose a moratorium on the actions of the executive that are constitutionally attached as powers of the executive power?! And you tore up your shirts here to impose this moratorium, you knew it was unconstitutional, then the Constitutional Court's decision came out and confirmed the right of my words then that it was unconstitutional. Each time I will speak and make a reply when it comes to the same measure and when we are in opposition and when we are in power and in all cases. The measure must be the same! If one thing is unconstitutional, we all don't do it together. If one thing contradicts the rules and laws, we all do it together, not the majority do it, and the minority sings the song.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u159	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Is there a second line to Philip Popov? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tsonev, this is not about a minority or a majority, this is about compliance with an imperative norm in the Bulgarian Constitution. Of course, it is your right as MPs to act here today in this Chamber, which does not clearly meet this imperative norm, that no one can take that right away from you. However, it is our duty, as you have said, to warn of the consequences of this action. They will not be positive at all, on the contrary, will be too negative, creating such a precedent in the legislative activity of the Bulgarian National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u161	Thank you, Mr. Popov. You're giving up, Mr. Karimansky? Okay. Professor Chorbanov for speech? And you're giving up. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor with a slight inconvenience, because I will have to repeat some things that have been said before me by my colleagues, but I will still try to avoid this by modifying what I want to say to you. If we look at the proposal that has been made as appropriate, we see and hear that there is a majority in this House to support it, but ultimately we are the supreme authority of the state, and we must first of all monitor the legality of the actions we are carrying out. That's the problem. And I do not want to chitchat here again, sorry for the expression, the text in the Constitution, but I will allow myself to read to you literally the text that has been developed, i.e. the development of the Constitution in the Public Finance Act: The Council of Ministers organizes and directs the composition, submission to the National Assembly and implementation of the state budget through the Minister of Finance and so on. I'm paying attention to the term "introduction." And in this regard there is a long-standing practice, of course, in the democratic parliaments after 1989, that the only law that can be tabled only by the Council of Ministers is the Law on the State Budget, Ergo and any bill amending the Law on the State Budget can be introduced only by this body. I'll stop there as soon as I can. There's something I need to warn you about. If we accept this precedent, from now on this National Assembly will meet constantly and will deal with amendments to the State Budget Act, because this will open the box of Pandora and every member of the National Assembly will decide that something does not appeal to it, or that its voters have some interest in the current State Budget Act and will constantly introduce bills to amend the State Budget Act and we will deal with it on a daily basis. It's just a warning. But I'm back to what I said. With respect to the importers, I say again, obviously that is important, if appropriate. I hear here, of course, now and attempts to speculate with the people of the scientific community, with the teachers who want to increase their salaries, who doesn't want to increase their salaries. This is normal, of course, in political discussion. But I ask you very much, let us keep an eye on the legality of the actions we are doing as representatives of the high authority of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u163	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. A line from Eva Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u164	I have a very short line. We're really starting to repeat ourselves. I would like to ask all MPs, perhaps from the majority, where we were when we adopted § 17. It is obviously unconstitutional, already being attacked by the Constitutional Court. And then how we accepted it and no one stood up to say that it contradicts art. 53, para. 4 of the Constitution? Where are we now suddenly to say that he contradicted art. 87, para. 2 of the Constitution? There is a Constitutional Court, it is pronounced when it is addressed, so if it is addressed, it will rule whether there is a contradiction with the Constitution or not and tells her what the consequences are. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u165	Thank you. Second line from Atanas Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! General Atanasov, developing your main argument, I would like you to comment on the following argument. This bill we're voting on, let's say, passes. The next day MPs bring a new PID to the Budget Act with the following argument: We do not change the balance between revenue and expenditure, we do not change it, we just transfer two or three million from one feather to another. But we're not changing the general budget, we're not disrupting the collection rate, we're just optimizing something we missed to do as MPs. Then can such a Budget Bill go your way, or can't if we follow this argumentation without violating the general budgetary framework? I am putting this argument, colleagues, because we are going along the plane to interpret whether we can or cannot submit a budget bill. Assuming we can, we have smart enough people in parliament to give a brilliant argument as to why one thing we can do without breaking the common framework. I have already expressed my opinion on the issue in a previous statement, but I would also like to think about this argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u167	Thank you, Professor Slavov. Krasimir Valchev has the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would ask a few questions, too, and, I admit, I am not sure of the answer.. Perhaps Mr. Atanasov will say his thoughts on the subject. Can a text that does not affect numbers in another law, but changed by the State Budget Act, be changed? Could we have made this change with the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education? So in both cases we prioritize the form, we say: the form is important, it doesn't matter the content. If one form is acceptable and the other is not, we say we have an advantage of the form over the content. Yeah, we're setting a precedent, but a precedent with the form we don't touch the numbers, there's no precedent with the numbers. This is what could be an argument for avoiding further changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u169	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Mr. Atanasov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u170	Dear colleagues, thank you for your lines. I respect everyone's opinion, especially my fellow lawyers, although it is often said: as many as lawyers, as many opinions. Once again, I would like to focus your attention on legality. There's a separation of powers. One of the main powers of the executive of the Bulgarian Constitution, I will say it popularly, is to manage our common money, i.e. the budget. That is why, both in the Constitution and in the Public Finance Act, it is stated that it is the Council of Ministers that introduces the basic Law on the budget of the country or bills to amend this law. If we, excuse the expression, break this rule, from now on, what I warned you about will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u171	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Philip Popov for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, before the vote is carried out, check through the computerised system for the existence of a quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u173	In connection with the upcoming vote at the request of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, please check the quorum through the computerised system. 104 MPs have registered. By groups: 2 out of "We continue the Change", 50 out of GERB-SDSS... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS, DPS and ITN.]] Careful, I'm announcing in groups right now, what's the problem? [[Strength noise and lines GERB-SDS, DPS and ITN.]] Oh, you want it on the dashboard. He's gonna be in the transcripts, too, guys. I'm not adjusting the dashboard from here. I'm sorry. Here, I tell you in groups: 2 of the "We are continuing the Change" - 50 of GERB-SDSS, 19 of the DPS, 0 of the BSP for Bulgaria. 22 of IHN, 0 of the "Democratic Bulgaria" - 11 of the Bulgarian Revival. There is no quorum, but we continue with...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u174	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u175	One second, the procedure will come. We are continuing today's sitting with debate and parliamentary control........................................................................................... [[IHN lines]] I heard there's a procedure. Can I finish my sentence first? Mr. Balabanov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As it gets more and more humiliating in this room, we're going to request a name check from our group. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u177	Mr. Balabanov, at the request of a group only happens once in a meeting. [[IHN lines]] It's a total of all groups, only once in one session at the request of a parliamentary group. It's not, like, for example, when you're going to go through the motions once each group. [[Reply from MP Iva Miteva.]] And it was about the vote, so there wouldn't be a name check. We made it. The Bulgarian BSP took advantage of the opportunity to request verification of the quorum and was made at their request. We are continuing with debate and parliamentary control, as from this item on the agenda remains only the vote We move on to the next item on the agenda, which is: HEARING OF A DEPUTY MINISTER-CONSTANT IN EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT CALINA CONSTANTINATION ON THE GOVERNMENT'S DECISION TO TERMINATE THE PLAN FOR DISTRIBUTION OF EARNERS FROM UKRAINE.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u178	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u179	Mr. Karimansky, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u180	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On today, unfortunately, we were left by a very respected, dignified person with a clear civic position and perhaps one of the most respected and most accurate fair journalists in our new time. Please honor her with a minute's silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u181	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. That's not the procedure. I'm sorry. Otherwise, she has a bright memory! I'm joining you. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] At any moment, we expect the Deputy Prime Minister of Effective Governance to arrive so that we can proceed with the hearing. I've been informed that she entered the building, and that's confirmed. Here you are, Mrs. Konstantinova. Mr. Gazhev, please come in for a presentation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Konstantinova, the occasion for today's hearing after your video, which I don't even want to comment on, and the subsequent reaction, as well as the paintings we have been observing for several days, forced us to call you to the National Assembly to provide up-to-date information on how the state is dealing with providing assistance to the fugitives of war, as well as to have clarity and predictability, which is currently lacking, what is to be done from now on. Because this ambiguity, used even colleagues from "We continue the Change" to speculate on the topic by pronouning from this tribune. A few examples: how in a few days the Temporary Protection Directive was transposed, which happened 15 years ago; how the inheritance was bad, there were five centres waiting for refugee status over three months. Well, it's not like anything's changed. Again in five centers is expected for months for refugee status, but you confuse it with the status of temporary protection, which is registration two radically different procedures, according to radically different legislation. These 131 centers and 214 desks are mainly in 124 structures of the Ministry of Interior, and all the effort was to install themselves at a remote point for access to the software of the State Agency for Refugees of 214 computers of the Ministry of Interior and to train employees to enter the data, and this effort took about 20 days, as on March 15th, if you recall, Mr. Prime Minister opened the first point in Durankulak, and 25 opened the centers in Sofia and the big cities later, the smaller ones. There is an organization for Ukrainian children to attend kindergartens and schools, perhaps that is why there are none, but it is a fact that the government voted 26 million to be provided to NGOs to provide educational and social services. Also a huge lie is that GERB has opposed the health insurance of refugees, but the bigger lie is that they are health insurance. And this lie, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, is yours because you, from this tribune, have said, quote: "In the first three months after the proposals that you, as National Assembly, have accepted, have been paid for the health insurance of absolutely all people fleeing the war. There hasn't been one yet. If there is, disprove me, show it. And so we come to the notorious failure that happened in the last few days. We understand that if the Ukrainians do not listen, you will take them to Elhovo. But at least you should have bothered to give them the hot water and provide them with food, because it was good that the municipalities in Burgas and Elhovo, which provided food and drinking water to the people who were taken there. Thanks to the extremely successful public-private partnership with the hotels, these are your words because you chose to accommodate them in hotels and secured them there and to subsidize the hotels, you attributed them the name tourists. And here you get, by the way, a paradox. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u183	Colleagues, I'm asking for silence in this Chamber because you can't hear what Mr. Gajev is saying. Excuse me, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u184	In the system, it is noted that out of 500 hotels, which, according to public information, have accommodated refugees or rather Ukrainians with status at the end of April, because by the end of May the information is not clear, currently, the willing are 257. But today there is no need to move Ukrainians, and that is in the words of the Chairman of the Agency for Refugees. That is, all the chaos and horror that we've witnessed in the last few days, you create it for just over 1,000 people who have been moved through both of them to Elhovo and Sarafovo, and it ends today. I'm scared of what would happen if there were more people, if it were 2,000, or God forbid 10,000. As a matter of fact, the only one adequate in the whole organization was the chairman of the Mariana Tosheva Agency. And here remains the question, after all the others remain in the hotels where they have been accommodated so far, who needed all this effort and all this chaos that has been created in the last three days? Why did we end up doing this? Well, because your fellow ministers refuse, despite the decision of the Council of Ministers, to provide their bases. Turns out some bases are evener than others. For example, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and other ministries with bases of the sea refuse to provide them. There will be an active summer season, and power bases are inaccessible. Mr. Chairman, by the way, and to you, you could at least provide the National Assembly's rest base with a personal example. But there's another problem here. By placing them in mountain resorts and remote bases, what integration can happen there? Do you know how many doctors, pharmacies, supermarkets, kindergartens, schools there are in these areas, especially outside the season? Do you know which nearest town to the Hawkhouse where they were accommodated? The nearest town is 22 km away. And what is the distance between Borovets and Samokov and the distance between Pamporovo and Smolyan? On the other hand, government hotels in Sofia are excluded from the accommodation program. Why? However, one thing for sure, you have managed to deal effectively and it is the insane communication that has caused panic in Ukrainians for more than a month, and worse is that thanks to this communication the Bulgarians have turned against them and thus the language of hatred for the people who are fleeing from war has increased. Such an example, perhaps, will be observed in the future when you stop receiving chronic patients for treatment at the NSI stations if refugees from Ukraine are placed there and their treatment is stopped. What would follow from this? Who would hate the people who would be left without treatment?.................................................................................................... More like the first one. Therefore, the specific topics on which we are waiting for an answer are: how many are expected to be moved in the coming days by nearly 60,000 Ukrainians in hotels? If it's just those thousand people who've been through the last 48 hours, who needs all this chaos? Why did some state bases turn out to be more equal than others, and how does selecting where to accommodate them? Will you use the NSI sanatoriums and how you will provide the treatment of chronically ill people who have enrolled there? How do you see them finding jobs or integrating people fleeing from war by placing them miles away from the nearest cities where they have jobs or social conditions? When will the Law be fulfilled and you will pay their insurance? And do you think your communication so far has been successful on this subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u185	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mrs. Konstantinova, you have 10 minutes to give your answer on the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u186	Mr. Vice-President, honourable Members! Thank you for inviting me to this hearing. Before I begin with my presentation, I would like to offer my apology to those Bulgarian and Ukrainian citizens who have felt affected by my words. That wasn't my goal. [[(The National Representatives of GERB-SDS hold in their hands sheets with the inscription:]] Now let me tell you in detail what happened in the last few days. In the days between May 29th and May 31st, there were three very difficult days in which the spotlights were directed to the National Crisis Headquarters. It was clear to the whole of Bulgaria that the task before us is very, very difficult, that there is no experience to learn from and that sheltering for three days 60 000 people would be a huge challenge not only for Bulgaria, but for every other country in Europe, which meets tens of thousands of refugees. What were we planning? A week before relocation, we launched a digital platform that allowed people to fill out their data online and send us their information about their family, their children, their health, their profession and many more details that we wanted to comply with. This was our plan, which we've been working on for about ten days, so that we could properly group people remotely. In order to further facilitate this process, we also organized teams on the ground to help people fill out the questionnaires. [[(The National Representatives of GERB-SDS hold in their hands sheets with the inscription:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u187	Colleagues, please, we understand the message. We're not at a football game. Please take these off, because... [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Excuse me, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor to proceed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u188	They explained, informed Ukrainian citizens not only how to complete the survey, but everything that is coming in the coming days and that on the basis of their answers the most suitable accommodation for them will be chosen. Our aim was for all people with temporary protection to be visited and to receive information in person. We had a real desire to remotely appreciate the needs of Ukrainian refugees and to make it easier for them to move from the hotels, but the greatest point at which the platform was created was to inform them of their new address to which they will be moved. As a result, more than 35,000 people were gathered. What have we done? Teams of the State Agency for Refugees together with the regional government, Ministry of Interior, mediators and with the assistance of the hoteliers we have prepared a pilot group of over 250 people in Varna. The Ministry of Transport organizes four buses and four additional wagons. The Bulgarian Red Cross organizes an outskirt of the railway station with food and water for dispatch. On the spot, volunteers created an improvised children's playground to play in until they waited. In the coupe we provided more food and water and books from the Ministry of Tourism for the traditions and history of Bulgaria with Russian translation. What happened? After several preliminary announcements of specific weekend bases on May 28th, we found that the communication of a specific address raises the security of these people because it raises further turmoil and tension. On May 29 to hotels in Golden Sands early in the morning the buses took off along with several police cars of the Ministry of Interior. Security in the areas along the routes that Ukrainian citizens are crossing was guaranteed by dozens of law enforcement officers. Dozens of volunteers arrived in front of the hotels to help both in the organization and with the luggage of the people. Translators, mediators, employees of the DAP were also in place. In front of the hotels, there were also representatives of the National Headquarters each time. We secured ambulances both in front of hotels and at different points from the routes where there was supposed to be a crowd of more people. After all, despite all these efforts and the mobilization of hundreds of people from dozens of institutions in Bulgaria, only five people from the group of 250 took the train to the base. The next day we were able to move a little more Ukrainian citizens, but their number was still much less than planned. Obviously, free will people decided at the last minute how they wanted to continue their stay in the country and the process was not going as planned and urgent measures had to be taken. What went wrong? It turned out that the planned resources, which burdened the state, far beyond the declared needs, which came to show only one of the information we had about the people's intentions, whether they would stay in Bulgaria or go back to Ukraine, were very misleading and subjected the operation of relocation to the genuinely needy of shelter at great risk. What decisions have we made? In a crisis situation, decisions are always difficult, and when it comes to so many human destinies, decisions are not just difficult, they are difficult. We had to turn to the traditional process of grouping people into distribution buffer centres. The purpose of such buffer centers is to serve as temporary shelter until a real assessment of the needs of each refugee is made. This is the practice and this is the principle action of the authorities everywhere in Europe, even at the border. We have, in all ways, tried to bring out the needs assessment outside these centres, but ultimately we have moved on to the standard process. Outside of it, we took care completely individually of each special case for the child with DCP, for the woman with diabetes, for the man in a wheelchair. Each case we have been informed about during the survey, through the call center, through the NGOs on the ground, through the hoteliers, has gone through individual processing from a specially created team, with a personal call and a separate transfer to a base with appropriate conditions for specific needs. Specialized transports were organized for hard to move people. We treated pregnant women with special care. About 500 people, people from vulnerable groups and their families, were taken care of through this personalized approach. What's the score? Such a process happens at every European border. Move to buffer centers where to assess needs and then accommodation. In most countries, this process takes between 7 and 14 days. We were able to move from Elhovo within 24 hours and place more than 60% of the people who had arrived the day before. On the first day around 568 people arrived in Elhovo, of which 423 were stationed at state holiday bases the very next day. Currently there are about 200 people there, each of which will be accommodated within 24 to 48 hours. About 200 people arrived in Sarafovo on the first day, 67 were already accommodated, and there are about 260 people there today. The results show that to date we have less than 500 people in buffer centers and 3,000 in bases. In hotels participating in the new program, more than 12,000 people have already been accommodated according to preliminary data. Today the task has already been accomplished and the impossible has been done. It is important to clarify that refugees who have passed through these buffer centres will pass from there in no more than 24 to a maximum of 48 hours. Refugees for whom GERB was responsible lived for years in centres of this type in far worse conditions. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS:]] So I refuse to receive humanity lessons from you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] The working Ukrainians in Bulgaria only with registered employment contracts already exceed 4,000 people, or this is more than 10% of the working population of the people with temporary protection in Bulgaria. This breath of air that we gave with the hotel program, as well as the temporary protection provided and access to the labour market, have already produced their results in the most difficult task of integration. School started over 300 children and over 1500 applications were submitted for next year. The information collected through the platform has failed to serve as a detailed logistics plan, but it has priceless data on the occupations of people and their intentions for work, which we will use from tomorrow to help them find the most suitable way for them. The highest percentage of working refugees that you have achieved in all 10 years varies between 0% and 3%. So it is very clear for which priority is the integration of people and who succeeds in achieving it. But the most important and most difficult thing we've achieved is that all these tens of thousands of people have a roof over their heads. I thank the team of the Crisis Headquarters and all institutions for their endless efforts and dedication in recent months. This team gives me the opportunity to stand before you and say we have dealt with a challenge Bulgaria has never met. Not for a second did we even allow ourselves to get close to a severe humanitarian crisis and people on the street, and the risk of that was enormous. Today, when we honor Botev's memory and those who died for the freedom of Bulgaria more than ever, it is important to remind ourselves that the deeds speak more than the words. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, we're moving on to questions from the parliamentary groups. Will there be a question? Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov. You have the floor to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I wasn't wearing my glasses and I didn't see in the beginning, were those F-16's funny blueprints, or any other dreams? [[(The National Representatives of GERB-SDS raise sheets with the inscription:]] Let me see. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] No, you can't see it. Joke aside. I'd like to make an introduction. First of all, we have an unprecedented crisis, and that's a fact. So far, according to the UN data, we have 14 million people who are forced to leave their homes from Ukraine. Over 6.7 million have left the country. These are according to the UN. This is 20% of Ukraine or one whole Bulgaria. You can imagine our entire territory without a single human being, how many people have left the country. The Syrian crisis is similar in size to 13,5 million, of which 6.8 million have left the country. Once we do, the Armenian refugees in the 19th century were 22 thousand, again according to UN data. That's where I bought them. For the whole of 2015, I say again, there are 31,000 281 people from the Syrian crisis who have entered Bulgaria, and the Ukrainian crisis from 24 February to today, in the morning I looked at the portal, there are 301 thousand 211 people. So, colleagues, you can imagine the influx to Bulgaria and I do not know a state in peace time to build homes and expect a refugee crisis of 300 thousand. Of these, 110 thousand with temporary protection and number of registered ones in Europe. I am talking about temporary protection, Bulgaria comes first. Against this background in tourism was found the best option Win-win situation by participating, Mr. Gazhev, to tell you exact numbers because I saw that you asked the hotel 1290 so far. According to preliminary accounts, 150 million will be paid to the business in advance. My question is: after the completion of the first phase of the programme by May 31st, what will be the number of refugees moved to the state holiday facilities and accommodation centres? What do you expect? What difficulties have you encountered along this path? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u191	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you are, Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to develop your answer. Colleagues, I let Mr. Gazhev speak for almost two minutes above the five-minute limit to develop the exhibition, so I left Mr. Dimitrov a few seconds on top. Here you are, Mrs. Konstantinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u192	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Gentlemen of the House! As I shared during my exhibition, about 500 people are people from vulnerable groups and their families who are accommodated in specialized bases that meet the conditions. The ones with wheelchairs in places where there are conditions for that. For each of them, it is appropriate to be accommodated near the city in which they had previously had medical care so as not to interrupt their treatment. So for these people specialized transport was organized and they were left in bases near the places where they had been accommodated before. At the moment, about 3,000 by morning. Now maybe about 3,200 people are stationed at state bases. From what we have as initial data from ESTI, 12 thousand are in hotels. Given that yesterday has become the big registration, and the fact that they are gradually registering new people according to the new rules, it is possible that this figure may vary. So this is the data. In terms of the challenges that await us in the coming days, I think they will be considerably less and we will be able to work more calmly in those groups that are related to the integration of people who have sought temporary protection. You know that on the third week, working groups were created on the topic of Education, the topic of Employment and Promotion and so on on on all important topics. These working groups have been working for more than two months. This week, the first measure was launched through the MLSP, which is linked to stimulating employment. So we expect to work more calmly towards integration processes. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. From the group of GERB-SDS "Mrs. Atanasova," you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u194	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ms. Konstantinova, I was surprised that you brought GERB back into your lack of dealing with the situation. I don't know if it's because of the fact that when there was a refugee wave and a minister was Rumyana Bachvarova, you were her advisor or some other reason, but that's how it is. [[(Shouts from GERB-SDS: ……]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I do not know if you understand that only volunteers and Bulgarian municipalities deserve to be admired for what has been done. Neither you nor the rest of the Bulgarian government can boast of any progress or definitely better attitude towards refugees from Ukraine. You have recited some data, I doubt that you have acquired it personally because it seems to me that only once you visited the city of Varna, mainly using this visit as a media event at the beginning of this refugee crisis. Strange why, when the first train with Ukrainian refugees left at 10.30 am from Varna railway station by train to Sofia and had provided them with a special perimeter for photos, you were not there, Deputy Prime Minister. However, these are my reasonings. I'd be happy if you'd touch on those questions at all. The questions are specific, you have just announced that 568 people are accommodated in Elhovo and Sarafovo, 280 in buffer zones, or more than 500 people, respectively. Of the nearly 60 thousand Ukrainian refugees who have entered Bulgaria, how much do you expect to be moved in the coming days, as you declared that everything will be within the normal framework and will be regulated? Is there a solution for these people to be placed in state bases? This is an extremely important clarification, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, because in this way you will deprive all working Bulgarians who have a requested holiday In addition, I did not hear an answer in the last question's exposé....................................... the National Insurance Institute for the Accommodation of these refugees..................................................... Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go. [[The National Representative Desislava Atanasova places a white sheet of paper on the banks for the government with the inscription "Omission." Applause by GERB-SDS.]] I'll ask the Quaestors to remove what Mrs. Atanasova has placed. Here you are, Mrs. Konstantinova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u196	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! First to respond to what Mr. Gazhev said about health insurance. The insurance for all persons seeking temporary protection has been paid for the first three months and they are already coming out of the system, so check it out, it's past with PMS, I can give you the number a little later. On the basis of the NGOs that you believe were alone. First I described to you very neatly exactly all the services, institutions that were there all the time, every step of the process. And specifically for the NGOs, who, yes, were our partner all along. After the convening of the first meeting of the Civil Society Development Council, we made an instant special group with all organisations working on the subject of Ukrainian refugees, and I think it was the second or third week of the crisis. [[Noise and lines in GERB-SDS]] , every Friday we had a meeting in which about 40 organizations initially took part, currently around 60 organizations with whom we meet and work together so that we can coordinate our common resources as well as possible. Each one of these organizations was invited to the thematic working groups [[(a line from the MP Desislava Atanasova:]] , and all the time we worked together, so at no time there was a lack of synchronization between the state and the NGO sector, and the exact opposite there was a responsible use of all the resources available in the state. On the point of saying that I wasn't there personally, I'm only saying this because it's a fact and everyone can confirm it... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u197	Colleagues, please be quiet! However, the request is on your own initiative. Let's hear the answers! Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u198	...from the end of last week the entire headquarters moved to Varna. I was the last one to go to lunch on Saturday. There were all the time the key deputy ministers and the entire staff from the Headquarters, who worked at the Council of Ministers. I came home yesterday at five o'clock in the morning I left Varna. All this time I was between Varna and Burgas, so I was on the field with absolutely all the people who worked around the clock to get what happened. By the way, how many more have to be moved? At the moment, as I have said, in the buffer centers, where the triage and the targeting of state bases has little less than 500 people, so each of them will be moved and accommodated within the next 24 hours in a place that is adequate for their needs, and most likely tomorrow, the Buffer Center in Elhovo will be closed because there is no need for it and because there will be enough seats in the Buffer Center in Sarafovo. As for the NSI bases, at this point they are not in the program. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Konstantinova. For procedure? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova. I hope that's not an attitude. Let's not repeat one situation a few weeks ago. Here you go. Sorry, I was just trying to make a joke.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u200	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I don't know how you find the possibility of jokes at this point when we're discussing such a serious subject. I would like to make a note, Mr. Chairman, and my procedure is for this with regard to the answer to the questions. I asked very specific questions. I am not interested in the meetings, the arrival and departure of Mrs. Konstantinova at what time it was carried out by Varna and where it was located between Varna and Burgas for days,...... and my specific questions were regarding whether refugees from Ukraine will be accommodated at state bases and whether all government officials who have already requested a holiday during the summer months will cancel it? [[(Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev: Only one question you have the opportunity!]] I repeat, I said less than a few minutes ago, Mrs. Konstantinova, that these are Bulgarian workers, Bulgarian civil servants who are taxpayers and pay your salary. And that was my specific question. I expect you, Mr. Chairman, when there are other specific questions, to make a note to the Deputy Prime Minister to answer... [[(Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u201	Colleagues, please, not from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u202	Absolutely right! Yes, we will take our attitude, but I appeal to the President not to allow the Deputy Prime Minister not to answer the questions asked by the MPs. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u203	Just a minute, Mr. Gurov. I'll give you the floor of procedure. Thank you for this procedure, Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues, I'm addressing those of you who will ask the next questions. When you expose a number of facts, it is normal for the person who answers the question, whether it is Deputy Prime Minister Konstantinova or anyone else, to try to answer and address some of these facts that you are exposing. And when multiple facts are presented, multiple questions are raised, although the Rules allow only one to be put. Then the person we are listening to can naturally choose which of these questions to answer, so if there is any emptiness in the answer, Mrs. Atanasova, it may be because many facts and many questions are asked. I address this to everyone who will ask questions subsequently. And one more thing, let's keep quiet in the room, because some of the answers are not heard at all by the colleagues who are here. Mr. Gurov for procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. I would like to ask you to note to Mrs. Atanasova that the hearing is under art. 110 of the Rules and there each group has the right to ask exactly two questions when the time comes. In the first case he has the right to ask one question, and after all the other groups have passed, he is entitled to another question. Multiple questions do not fit into the procedure in which we are hearing. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u205	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Will there be a question, Members, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I won't. Will there be a question from the BSP for Bulgaria? I won't. Will such a people have a question? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u206	Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I do not support the request of your people from GERB. I say your people, because you're their shot and I had doubts about their implementation into the Continued Change. [[Partial applause by GERB-SDS]] I don't want your resignation. I only ask you to explain to me the legal basis for the provision of state-owned government bases: on what basis have they been provided? Is there a decision of the Council of Ministers or of the individual ministers to whom the respective bases are led? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u207	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. You have the floor, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u208	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Gentlemen of the House! The state bases were provided on the basis of a decision of the Council of Ministers two weeks ago, which also gave them orders from their ministers, so this administrative route has been made. As for civil servants, I believe that they will find in their heart empathy to find alternative vacation options so that we can use this base to help people fleeing the war. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Konstantinova- From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Mrs. Belobradova, you have the floor to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u210	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, before I ask my question, I would like to make a note to the efforts of the government, your efforts, the efforts of the Headquarters, efforts that I myself have witnessed. The efforts can be great, but only the results are important, as well as the communication of these results. Predictability and success of results is what society expects. I understand that the situation is very difficult, I understand that the situation is unprecedented, but the bitterness that you have demonstrated from the lack of success at some point in the results cannot be directed towards mothers and children fleeing from war. We, who are chosen to represent the Bulgarian society, not only do we not have the right to be bitter, only people have the right to be bitter by us. So I'm glad you apologized. We owe citizens, especially the vulnerable ones. Our role is only acceptable. In this regard, I have a question aimed entirely at the government's work in terms of spending funds in recent months. The war in Ukraine began days after we voted on the state budget and consequently no funds were foreseen. Please explain to the public and to the MPs: how much money has been spent so far; where has it been taken; from which feathers have been redirected funds and in what sizes; what have they been spent and what costs can we expect? Last but not least: what is the status of the support that we need to receive from the European Union; how much is it worth, and if not, what are we doing to get it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. Mrs. Konstantinova, you have the floor to answer. Of course, with accurate numbers and data you will be able to answer if you are prepared, which is not required at the moment by you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u212	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mrs. Belobradova, to your specific question about the funds that will be directed to the refugee crisis. At the moment, no additional EU funds have been allocated to any country. What has been given is flexibility "all funds that have not been spent by the previous operational programmes to be redirected to measures related to the refugee crisis." These funds are currently around 150 million in operational programmes. lv. Of them, after the last payment under the Hoteliers Programme, 52 million. lv. April has been paid to hoteliers through European funds. Last Friday, 12 million were allocated to BCC, regional governments and the Council of Ministers for buffer zones, hygiene packages, feeding... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u213	Colleagues, whom he does not notice, are listening to a question from Deputy Prime Minister Konstantinova. Please be quiet! Let's have some respect for the speaker. [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] All right, guys, let's hear the answer. After that, if there is a situation, go out for a procedure and we'll comment on it. Thank you for your attention. Mrs. Konstantinova, please continue with your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u214	Like I said, about 150 million. lv. There's one available at the moment. Of these, 52 million were spent. lv. for the programme to hoteliers for April, 12 million lv. On Friday they went through PMS, which are directed to BCC, to regional governors, the Council of Ministers, to buffer zones, hygiene packages, to feed places without food and to support non-governmental organizations working in the field, to the call center, which has been supported for two months in four languages, and this money has not yet been spent. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. supplied measures to stimulate employment towards the MLSP, which have started this week, and are yet to be spent on these measures. A measure is being prepared relating to additional support to non-governmental organisations working on the ground under the Operational Programme "Good management" after it is restructuring in the next few weeks, as well as one for providing child care, already working for them for one month and I hope again within this month by the Ministry of Education to develop this measure. As for subsequent support, negotiations with all EU countries continue. What is most important is to base the assessment of needs on the basis of the rest of the country and those seeking temporary protection in the country. As you know, Bulgaria is fourth according to this criterion as affected by the refugee crisis in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u215	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. From rebirth, colleagues? Come in for the procedure, Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, since parliamentaryism has returned, except that the National Assembly has come to light with bars, MPs are fighting in a hall, we have just witnessed another disgusting ugly demonstration. Your colleague, Mr. Chairman, from your parliamentary group has shown an extremely obscene gesture to the MPs. This is taken, Mr. Chairman. I'll be providing you with a photo shoot in a few minutes. This MP has just left the plenary. I ask, Mr President, although you, from the position you are in, cannot objectively see what each of the Members of the National Assembly does, although standing directly against you, impose on the grounds of art. 153, p. 3 reprimand of the MP Hristo Petrov. This, Mr. Chairman, is a rude and rude demonstration. Please inform Mr. Petrov that we are not in a pub where he is usually in order to sing...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u217	Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u218	...and we're in the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u219	Respectfully, though, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u220	...and this is unacceptable neither in plenary, nor against the crest and flag of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union, nor on a date like 2 June! Thank you. [[Extreme applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u221	Thank you for this procedure, Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues of ARCHIVER, do you have a question for Mr. Georgiev? Here you are, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u222	Dear Mr President, we hope that you will start to lead objectively and impose punishments, and deserved and proportionate, as does your parliamentary group for showing the middle fingers to others, during this time with a happy smile are photographed, as they say, themselves are photographed, or the adopted foreigner "selves," and this thing is hardly with great satisfaction from the well done work in plenary. We at AGE believe that this is anything but a well done job, is not the normal behaviour of a representative of the people. So please, you know who he is, he's more known for his stage name than by his name, so impose the punishment he deserves. Because, please, it's just not serious from your group that things are already getting out of hand, it's starting to relapse, there's something new every day. We see that there are all sorts of individuals, some perhaps with fetish to ties, others....................... some with fetish to ties, others...........................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u223	Mr. Georgiev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u224	Yes!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u225	To me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u226	I'm saying maybe, I don't know. They will tell themselves if there is such a thing. Please pull yourself together and act in accordance with the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. Otherwise, don't get mad when things escalate!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u227	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Just a moment, I'll give you the floor for the question. Honourable Members, an attitude will be taken to review the records for the particular case. And one more thing to all of you in this Chamber: let each of you judge your own actions and not just those of the others, because if we go to impose punishments, perhaps half the room will arise. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Mr. Georgiev, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question to the honourable Deputy Prime Minister is related to Elhovo. As we know, there is only intended accommodation of illegal residents for their identification. The question is why Ukrainian citizens are accommodated there, who not only are not illegally staying, not only have long been identified, but also have temporary protection status. I mean, the question is, is that how you feel about the problems by breaking the laws and regulations in the country? Why the center in Elhovo is used in practice not for its intended purpose and not for its proper purpose. If we continue in the same spirit, tomorrow we could, say, accommodate refugees in the building of the National Assembly and perhaps even for you this would be good from a PR point of view, so here is a constructive proposal from us and please be answered on the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u229	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u230	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, gentlemen of the House! The base in Elhovo yes was used and within a few days will continue to be used perhaps a maximum of one more day as a buffer center to make similar triage and fast accommodation of large groups of people. This is the resource at the disposal of the state. We also set up a buffer center in Sarafovo. So this is a temporary measure that will allow us to make a triage and find accommodation within 24 hours, set up groups and comply with their specific needs so that we can prepare the best accommodations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u231	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. On the second round of questions, fellow Members of the "We Continue the Change" will there be one? Mr. Gochev, you have the floor for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Konstantinova, you took care of the refugees, so to speak, at a very difficult time. I ask my question from the point of view of the experience I have had over the years with the State Agency for Refugees, as it has been governed by the Political Party GERB from my point of view as a lawyer, I have worked on quite different cases, and from my point of view as a lecturer in refugee law. I have always been disgusted by the way the State Agency for Refugees managed by the Political Party GERB treated the people seeking protection in Bulgaria. [[(Laughter at GERB-SDS. Reply from GERB-SDS: "Are you happy now?" (Applause from "We are continuing the Change.")]] There was a targeted policy, and that's how all the care for these people was organized, so if we could just kick them out. So what you have taken and it is good to know from the House that what you have taken was an institution that worked completely for purposes other than those for which it was created and we have seen terrifying things. There was a fight on the border, there were cowboys who arrested refugees along the border, also terrifying things from this institution. So the request for your resignation is certainly an expression of a terrifying hypocrisy, a terrifying duplicity on the part of colleagues. [[Applause from.. We continue the Change.]] who left you a difficult agency to run. From this perspective, my question to you, Mrs. Konstantinova, is: how do you think the current management of the State Agency for Refugees is doing in the new situation? Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u233	Thank you for your question, Mr. Gochev. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u234	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Gentlemen of Parliament, the inherited leadership of the State Agency for Refugees was changed in the first weeks of the war, given that they could not take on a leadership role, but rather to get rid of responsibility and to say that these refugees are not like those we have dealt with, but did not recognize the task that this is the reality we are facing, and this is the institution that has long-term to take on this task. The new leadership has a heavy legacy, and from what I see, it will take quite a long time to reform this institution. This cannot happen in one day and cannot happen in five minutes, cannot happen until all resources are mobilized on the ground and for specific tasks. The truth is that much of this task, which we had to solve, was still a matter of horizontal work with all institutions, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, that is, many of the keys that we had to unlock from the key tasks are still scattered and all the institutions that had to work together. So yes, the State Agency for Refugees at the beginning could not accept leadership, but was a participant in the process and under the new leadership quite constructive one, as the vision is exactly through this process, in which they participate in all the working groups, their expertise is involved together, as I said with the NGOs working on these topics on the ground, and with all the institutions on which every step of each of these measures depends, so that the vision is in the medium and long term towards them to pass all the care. But at this moment, the whole country must be mobilized in order to sort out its processes, to draw up such horizontal measures that we can be truly useful, and quickly, to the people who decide to stay on the territory of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Sacheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u236	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Konstantinova, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Konstantinova, you're quite concerned with a bad inheritance, you're concerned with what you inherited. Temporary protection is a new instrument that required real leadership, required innovation, required quick work. You have already been told from this tribune that the results are familiar with people, and in recent days many more refugees from Ukraine are leaving? return their certificates of temporary protection because it is obvious that they are not satisfied with what is happening. And this is the assessment for you, not the assessment of the opposition. Listen to what Ukrainian refugees say about what is happening in Bulgaria. By the way, today there is a very good article in the portal "Culture."bg" which I recommend you to read. It's called Buffer Humanism. I think that's what you are exhibiting - buffering humanism with these buffer centers where you accommodate people, given that it was clear that they could not integrate into our resorts because they could not find there either opportunities for learning or opportunities for health insurance or opportunities for work. My question concerns health insurance and health insurance. We adopted on 13 April changes in the law related to the provision of health insurance costs. You said on May 20 that almost everyone had already received their health insurance, but in fact only on May 31st the Council of Ministers accepted the decree for the advance financing of these costs. I would like to remind the Members of the National Assembly that what we have adopted has been a provision of only April 26 in 3 months, and it has already been a month and a half, where there are still Ukrainian refugees who come out as uninsured health. The buffer currently remains in Bulgarian doctors, in Bulgarian hospitals that cannot, unlike you, display buffer humanism, they are obliged to provide medical assistance and support, and they do not really know either how to do it or how to pay their services. My question to you is how will you provide health insurance after 27 July, because these temporary protection statuses apply for one year. We do not need to wait 27 July to start talking that we have a bad legacy from GERB. What will happen to the health insurance of these refugees? What are your plans and when will all these health insurance problems be solved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. For an answer Mrs. Konstantinova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u238	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Gentlemen of the National Assembly, the truth is that Bulgaria provided the best and best quality care for people fleeing the war. Absolutely everywhere in any other European country they are in palace camps and in buffer centers, as you have seen. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I will bring you special photos from absolutely all countries, especially those on the border. So here, this breath of air we gave them through the hotelier program, which gave us the opportunity to support and a very damaged Kof business, except that you actually provided the best quality care in Europe that they had, also gave them a breath of air and helped them to their integration, as I said, already 10% of the people who are working at work are working contracts on the latest NRA data of this week. Specially for health care this PMS is past, expenses are covered, going out already registered with the NRA. If you want, send a specific letter or a request to the Ministry of Health to describe the entire path. But what you're saying is, this time, it's walked and people have access to this free health care for three months, and the idea of this approach is for three months to be able to get back on their feet, start working and then cover their own insurance. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u239	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Konstantinova. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms "Dr. Ademov, you have the floor for a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Deputy Prime Minister, my question is related to Decision No 318 of 20 May 2022 of the Council of Ministers, in which a decision is made that temporary protection should be accommodated in public rest facilities and in the facilities for the prevention and rehabilitation of public administration and budgetary support organisations. Point 2 states that the rest of the holiday facilities and the facilities for the prevention and rehabilitation of public undertakings, including in the premises of companies where the sole owner of the capital of the commercial companies is the National Insurance Institute, can be accommodated persons who have received temporary protection. And my question is that you allow yourself by a decision of the Council of Ministers to cancel insurance rights which are listed in the Social Security Code. Second, the State Social Security budget for 2022 provides for 25 million. 239 thousand. BGN, so 45 thousand can do it. insured persons to benefit from the services of the single public limited liability company, such as the statutory capital is not at all state, but of the insured persons, as the National Insurance Institute is, by definition, not a state, but a public institution, so I am surprised by the fact that you allow yourself, by a decision of the Council of Ministers, to cancel the social security rights and rights enshrined in the public security budget. In this regard, and in the context of your decision, you are probably already aware that there is a decision of the Supervisory Board of the NSI in which they strongly oppose this decision of the Council of Ministers, my question is related to this.... will you cancel this part of the decision of the Council of Ministers, which concerns prevention, rehabilitation and recreation........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u241	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u242	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Gentlemen of the National Assembly, there is no Ukrainian citizen who has sought temporary protection, placed in a rest facility of the NSI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Will there be a question from the BSP for Bulgaria? I won't. There is such a people? I won't. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you are, Mrs. Bellobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u244	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, there are buffer zones in many places. The problem was that we as a society found out about buffer zones that would be used about 12 hours before they started being used. But we're not going back in time. My question is what will be the fate of the buffer zone in Elhovo from this minute forward in time? And I'll be happy to get a very specific answer when it stops working, and when do we get the last person out of there?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. You have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u246	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Mrs. Belobradova, given that at the moment there are about 200 people in Elhovo, we do not see any obstacle at the latest tomorrow for each of the people who are accommodated there to be accommodated in a suitable accommodation on a state base. In this sense, my expectation is that on tomorrow, at most the day after tomorrow, the base in Elhovo will be closed. And given the fact that in the other buffer center in Sarafovo, which is closer to where there is more crowding, there are 260 people in it right now, and there are already 500 seats available, meaning there are 240 seats available. We believe that it will remain as a single buffer centre, given its proximity to the border and we will also use it for the triage of all Ukrainian citizens entering seeking temporary protection. When they enter the country they will pass through this buffer center and we will introduce this process from the border, and we will use the base in Sarafovo.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. From rebirth? Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Atanasova. One moment, Mr. Taslakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, more than 10 minutes ago, I called on you to impose a punishment under our Rules of Procedure on a Member of the National Assembly who allowed himself a vulgar gesture in the building and in the Chamber of the National Assembly. That's what Chairman Minchev was told about. I hope, Mr. Chairman, that you do not need a very long time to consider imposing a reprimand on Mr. Hristo Petrov, because it is unacceptable that he is not the only one not to be in the room and not to apologize, but also that you should not take adequate measures. I ask myself, Mr. Chairman, is this your idea of the elite of the nation that you talked about just a few days ago, or is this part of your team? Mr. Chairman, I ask you to take action immediately, because once again I say that the behaviour of the MPs in the last few days is unacceptable. First, we were in the middle of the night with bars, then we were at a mass brawl between.. We continue the Change....... and another parliamentary group. Today we saw an extremely shameful and ugly gesture in the Chamber of the National Assembly, and on June 2nd, when we were silent in front of Botev's memory and those who died to live in a democratic and rule of law. I expect, Mr. Chairman, the strictest measures on your part. If not, I hope Mr. Minchev will take them. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Like I said about ten minutes ago, I'm gonna be looking at the video because you can't just claim photos. I want to get to know the whole situation, and then I'm gonna take some attitude. [[Noise, lines.]] Colleagues, for those of you who laugh and are not lawyers, a punishment is imposed when the factual situation is clarified and not in the opinion of any other MP. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And one more thing. We are turning the Chamber into a circus with notes and posting notes on this tribune, pleading that we should behave at a level on behalf of this date. So my call is for each of you, colleagues, once again to correct his own behaviour and without demagogy and hypocrisy, because not only the potentially behavior of Mr. Petrov is subject to punishment. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u250	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am increasingly convinced that really parliamentaryism is gaining an increasingly perverse idea of what I see happening in this House. Mr. Vice-President, just now from the National Assembly stands, you have demonstrated in the most... I will avoid epithets, perhaps a legally sustainable double standard. And I'll tell you why. Then, when you imposed a punishment on me, it didn't take you one second to watch the tape, to get acquainted with the express transcript, in which there wasn't a single offensive word, a line, or anything that legally states it in the Rules that you are currently holding in your hands and that you read just now. From a factual point of view and from a legal point of view, you had no reason, but you did it most likely because I am a representative of the opposition. And now, when the whole Facebook is lit with testimony middle finger, let's put it in a straight text, to the man who will give a new impetus to education, as Prime Minister Kiril Petkov said, you need time to impose punishment on a person who, in front of the flag of Bulgaria, before the Gerba, before the institution of the National Assembly, shows the middle finger on 2 June. Now tell me what standard this is, what parliamentaryism is, what the actual legal point of view is and all that bullshit you're telling me about law. Do we have to show a finger in this room to keep quiet? Aren't you ashamed? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u251	Mr. Angelov, I just explained to you, as I did earlier, I didn't see Mr. Petrov. How do I impose punishment for something I didn't see, so I explained that I had to watch the video to make sure that he didn't or didn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u252	You're not fit for this position, resign!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u253	You're going to ask for your resignation again? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova. I don't have any worries. You're not fit for this position. Here's the record for Mrs. Atanasova's statement. All right, here you go. You have the floor. Now, Mr. Minchev told me that he was watching the video, and he told me that actually Mr. Petrov committed an act that is subject to punishment. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in particular Article 2. 155, which provides that your text is read, colleagues: The statement is made by the President to a Member of the National Assembly, who has addressed a colleague or colleagues with abusive words, gestures or threats. So, Mr. Petrov, I'm imposing a penalty on you. You want a procedure? Please, you have the floor. You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u254	Mr. Chairman, as I must address you, I must be excused by the people who have felt offended and remind you that I relatively rarely take the floor here because I believe that the time of the Bulgarian Parliament is valuable. I apologize to the people who felt in some way offended. And as for the people to whom I have shown this gesture, I think this is the least you should be shown. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u255	Mr. Petrov, you still have to respect all your colleagues. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u256	Mr. President, first of all, I think that you have wrongly imposed the punishment for the punishment, but you have occasion after Mr. Petrov's procedure to punish him or to remove him directly from the Chamber. Why? Because if Mr. Petrov does not realize that this gesture is not aimed simply at a group of MPs, but is aimed at more than 600,000 Bulgarian citizens by a person who is Vice-President of the Committee on Education and a member of the Committee on Culture, it is extremely pathetic. Mr. Minchev, President of the National Assembly, I am addressing you because I have much more respect than I do for Mr. Ivanov, I ask you to intervene in holding the plenary session and to master not only the House, but also your parliamentary group. If you guys don't realize what you're doing with this behavior, it's also pathetic. Not only did parliamentaryism not return, but next month, when sociologists will measure public confidence in the MPs, it will be significantly below 8%, which you are enjoying now. Shame on Bulgarian parliamentaryism! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u257	Colleagues, are there any other procedures? Regarding Mr. Petrov's behaviour, we will talk with the parliamentary group's leadership and take account of what the Lord Petrov said. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Here you are, Lord Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u258	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! What attitude your parliamentary group will take is, of course, your problem. Personally, I'm not a supporter of punishment or judgment, we're not in court. You know, as a lawyer, you're a little bit involved in this terminology of people, and I don't know what's not the point. The point is that you cannot understand for six or seven months one thing, including Mr. Hristo Petrov, that you are ruling. You need peace, you need to calm your passions in society. If you can't understand, you don't belong here at all. Mr. Hristo Petrov made two speeches from this tribune. One was just a while ago. We both knew he didn't know why he came here. He doesn't know at all! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I'm his fan as a musician, and I like his work, and he's really useful there, he's useless here. What's happening right now is not about the remark and it's not about the reprimand. You, if you want to show that... [[Reply from MP Kiril Ananiev.]] Tell me, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u259	Mr. Ananiev, no place, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u260	Sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u261	No, you're not going to yell at me, sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u262	Mr. Bikov, don't get into the controversy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u263	Come on, a little more...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u264	Proceed with your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u265	If you want, punish, if you want, don't punish, that's your problem. Everything that happens in this room is absolutely your problem, not ours. We are exempt from this responsibility. We can't afford to do that either, but you can't afford any more. And tell me, what's the use of this whole thing?! It's your problem, if you want, don't impose any punishment on Mr. Petrov. The punishments will be imposed by the voters and you will soon understand it. And Mr. Petrov, and you will understand that, because next time you won't be able to skip 4%. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u266	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Stoyev for procedure
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u267	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues, looks like the hearing's over. From now on, there will be procedures regarding the conduct of our colleague Petrov. I think we heard him, too. And therefore, Mr. Chairman, I propose on the grounds of art. 57 shut down the work of the National Assembly for today. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u268	Mr. Taslakov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u269	Mr. Chairman, I would like to remind you that a few months ago, we at the National Assembly had tabled a proposal for entry into the National Assembly building to take place after a drug test. [[Applause from ARRANGEMENT and GERB-SDS.]] After yesterday, we believe that this is extremely necessary. And not only that, but I think a psychiatric test should be introduced. Otherwise, we risk turning the National Assembly into something between a sobering and a commune. Thank you. [[Applause from ARRANGEMENT and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u270	Mr. Taslakov, will you ask your question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u271	Thank you. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like to show you a site that is Ukrainian. [[The National Representative Stoyan Taslakov shows the site from his phone.]] This site offers a free trip to Bulgaria, showing luxury hotels from Bulgaria, holiday bases, food looks like, children's centers, buses and extremely organized process. The site is from the town of Lvov, and there's an address. In this regard, I would like to ask you how average these refugees spend, these excursions in Bulgaria, one, two, three months? Are they satisfied with the conditions we pay with our money to the poorest people in the European Union? Are they coming back again? How many thousands this year have rested free of charge on our Black Sea coast from Lvov district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u272	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the House! Obviously, during a hearing to ask specific figures for such specific things is ridiculous. But what you showed was actually happening at one point, that is, there were tour operators and companies from Ukraine who were trying to take advantage of people fleeing the war and provide a similar kind of service by taking money for it, that is, from what the state represents. This problem has been identified by the services, we signaled through the embassy and this practice has been suspended for absolutely all the signals we have received. On the basis of accommodation and the program related to hotels, if you compare across Europe, this is the cheapest accommodation offered somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u274	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, we're moving on to expressing how much time we have left, that's about six minutes. Will the Change be relevant? Here you are, Mr. Gurov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! It is extremely ugly to use the process of moving Ukrainian citizens to political attacks, to bring tension, especially against the background of what has been done so far. This, colleagues from GERB, is shameful! Today's hearing of Deputy Prime Minister Konstantinova clearly outlined several objective truths that exist in the Bulgarian society, I will list them to you. The first truth is that after many years of neglect, robbery, neglect and internal sabotage the state begins to function and build capacity to deal with problems. In three months, we have built virtually zero institutions that have existed so far only on paper. In three months we provided Ukrainian citizens with an unprecedented and without an analogue in another European country. Yes, in Bulgaria the Ukrainians were accommodated in hotels, not in palace camps, and yes, everything was not going smoothly and perfectly, as is normal in the country of the inheritance of GERB. The second truth is that Bulgarian society is solidarity, compassionate and hospitable. Thousands of volunteers, organizations and companies came to the aid so that people who lost a home and family in Putin's terrifying war against Ukraine could have at least basic conditions for a decent life. For all these volunteers, the words of gratitude are insufficient. We are proud that these are our countrymen. The third truth is that in Bulgaria for the first time in decades there is a plan, there are stages, there are goals. It was repeatedly stated and declared that on 31 March the deadline for Ukrainian citizens to stay in hotels on the Black Sea coast and other hotels in the country expires. Nearly 60 thousand people had to make different decisions concerning their fate twice over the entire year during the Syrian crisis. Some felt it was appropriate to return to their homeland, others found livelihood and home at their own expense, while others simply decided to move on, but not because Deputy Prime Minister Konstantinova has not done something, but because every human destiny is different and everyone is master of the decisions for their lives. For all those citizens of Mariupol, Melitopol, Chernobaevka, Hersson, Severodonetsk, Kramatorsk, Harkov, Borodyanka or Nikolaev, who simply have nowhere to return, the Bulgarian state continues to provide protection, shelter and food. Because, fellow Members, Putin's war is evil, and when we let evil triumph, it conquers malice, defeats division and grief. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u276	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Mr. Cholakov, start with attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u277	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the process is not used for political attacks. The process of setting up people seeking temporary protection should be used for analysis. And we personally, observing what has been happening over the past three months, are doing an analysis, and this analysis is not facilitable, but unfortunately, I am forced to share it with you. I don't know if Mrs. Konstantinova read our statement yesterday? No! And it was nice to read it. It gave concrete recommendations, concrete advice on how to approach this situation, but obviously one learns hard. Even when he learns from the best, he may not learn anything. The analysis, colleagues, which I do, and you know what seems important to me, I observe the behavior, I observe the words, I observe the reactions of Mrs. Konstantinova's administration and I do the following analysis: these people do not understand the laws. They read them, but they don't understand them. If you had read Directive 2001/55, you would have seen that article. 12 Where the essence begins, there is talk of the right to work, and in art. 13 There is talk of the right to shelter. The right to work is before the right to shelter. I only pay attention to you. Secondly, it follows that you do not understand and still do not understand what integration means! It wasn't about putting some people on vacation. The point of the directive is to give them an opportunity for integration and that is what President Rumen Radev said yesterday, by the way. You forgot it all started because of integration, but you don't understand it. Thirdly, you do not understand what subsidiarity means! You do not understand that there are situations in which the state cannot do one job, and this work must be done by municipalities. You don't understand the concept of subsidiarity. Fourth, the bureaucratic approach is important to you. You're bureaucrats. There's no humanity. And the most interesting thing is that these are bureaucrats who can't read the laws, although bureaucracy is based on laws. Sixth, you think the management works with software. One month you've been making software. You think that by making software of everything and things will start to happen on their own. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I said it once and I repeat it: management is hard work and no software can replace the lack of organizational and management skills. Seventh, it has already been said here twice: for you efforts are more important than results. There's a concept in Anglo-Saxon HR that's been spinning a lot lately, best jobs. You're laying best jobs and you think you've done the job. No, you didn't! Efforts are understood by the result. Eighth, you're only thinking about business. All you think about is business! You have provided support for the hotel business several times. Was that the purpose of temporary protection? Is that temporary protection at all? And I'll tell you: it's already been mentioned here. Because you're only thinking of business, there are bigger slickers than you. The ones who have organized a trip of Ukrainians in our hotels. And that's your mistake. This is a result of your mistake because you have thought about how to support the tourism business and not how to provide temporary protection and integration for these people, which everyone would benefit from. And right now, hotels lose, and they lose, and society loses, and we all lose. Nine, you're not fair. You have no idea of justice. Why is it only paid to hoteliers who have accommodated and not paid to private individuals who have also accepted Ukrainians? In our group, there are people who have provided shelter to 11 families. But that's not what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u278	They're gonna need £40. Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u279	No, they don't. Why, though, are you not just? Tenth, you have a sense of infallibility, colleagues. A feeling of infallibility leads to arrogance. Eleventh, you can't work as a team, you can't work in big teams.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u280	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u281	You can't work in big teams because you don't trust them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In order to be able to work on a big team, you have to trust. And you don't trust when you don't have jurisdiction, when you're scared, because you don't understand what the people you have to lead do. I don't want to say it, and it's not my nature, but with its actions in the refugee crisis, which wasn't a crisis, and it was a chance, you showed all these and many other features...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u282	The weather, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u283	...of your government, which arouses real fear. Unfortunately, you've shown the Ukrainians the middle finger, you've shown the public the middle finger, and my great concern is that you show it in all the other spheres. Thank you, fellow Members, we will continue with the analysis. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u284	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Last two minutes, Doctor, as quickly as possible, because time is up, and then I have to read the parliamentary control reports and close the session.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u285	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, I will be extremely brief. I didn't get any answer to the question I asked. I asked how is it possible for the Council of Ministers, by its decision, to cancel texts from the Social Security Code, to cancel social security rights, to cancel texts from the budget of state social security, to cancel texts from the Law on Obligations and Contracts? Dear colleagues, 22 legal entities have signed contracts for a total of 52 institutions. That was my question! If you believe that this decision of the Council of Ministers has not yet reached the Ukrainian citizens or your subordinates and they have not accommodated them at the NSI bases, that does not mean that the decision of the Council of Ministers does not give them that right. I'm asking. I am not a lawyer here, there are lawyers in this Chamber, only I have enough parliamentary experience in this House I have listened to far more prominent lawyers than those without underestimated anyone, than those in the Council of Ministers! Is it possible for such an institution as the Council of Ministers to adopt a decision to take away insurance rights for which insurance contributions have been paid? This is a complete absurdity and shows an absolute ignorance of how the state operates, how the state institutions operate, how the laws in Bulgaria should be respected. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-02.u286	Thank you, Doctor. Unfortunately, we have exhausted the time of the meeting and we cannot complete the relationship of the parliamentary groups. Before closing the meeting, I will read the announcement of tomorrow's parliamentary control: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and Finance Minister Asen Vassilev will answer one question from the MPs Irena Dimova and Kiril Ananiev. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadjov will answer two questions from MPs Pavlin Krastev, Bajram Bajram and Adlen Shevked; and from Dimitar Ivanov. 3. Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska will answer two questions from the MPs Rumen Hristov; and Hristo Gabzhev. 4. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Georgi Gokov will answer one question from the MP Denitsa Sacheva. 5. Minister of Health Asena Serbenova will answer two questions from the MPs Elisaveta Belobradova; and Lachezar Ivanov. 6. The Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov will answer a question from the MP Vasil Zashkev. 7. The Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov will answer two questions from the MPs Petar Petrov; and Blagovest Kirilov, Kiril Simeonov and Lubomir Karimanski and one question from the MP Ivelin Ivanov. 8. The Minister of Internal Affairs Boyko Rashkov will answer 64 questions from the MPs Hairi Sadakov, two questions; Elhan Kulkov, two questions; Pavlin Krastev, two questions; Adlen Shevked, three questions; Bajram Bajram, three questions; Halil Letifov, two questions; Sevim Ali, four questions; Esheref Esheref, four questions; Petar Chobanov, two questions; Sezgin Mehmed, two questions; Dimitar Avramov, four questions; Ramadan Atalai, two questions; Güner Ahmed; Tsvetan Enchev, three questions; Fatme Ramadan On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 97, para. 2 of the Council of Ministers will not participate in the meeting for parliamentary control because of a business trip outside the country. The Minister of Defence Dragomir Zakov and the Minister of Energy Aleksandar Nikolov will not participate in the meeting for parliamentary control. Due to urgent commitments in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev will not participate. On the basis of art. 92, para. 4 of the MNS for lack of respectable reasons to Members of the National Assembly shall be postponed the answers to: - a question from the MP Mustafa Karadaye to the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov; - two questions from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov; - two questions from MP Stanislav Anastasov to Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov. That's it. We're adjourned. The next regular meeting will take place tomorrow, 3 June 2022, at 9.00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
