ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! There are 165 MPs registered, there is a quorum. I'm opening today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Here you are, Mr. Yordanov. A statement from a group. We're not in blitz control yet, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, last night there was a Chairman's Council within twelve hours, if I'm not mistaken. We have a huge problem both as parliament and as a country. At the closed session that we had here, about the international crisis that we entered with the expulsion of 70 Russians, they weren't all diplomats, let's say, employees of the Russian Embassy, it turned out that the questions we asked, the Prime Minister was standing here, on this stand, looking us in the eye and lying directly, because neither at that meeting was there a report from the National Security Agency, nor was it a point of view, nor was there such an idea. On the outside, they were running some sort of reciprocal reduction procedure to equalize the number of diplomats - ours and theirs. The procedure lasts as fast as a month, and lasts longer, meaning this is the softest option in which there are no such scandals. And Prime Minister Kiril Petkov has verbally ordered DANS to find 70 people for him several times. The Foreign Office then objected to it, he also lied that it was a decision of the Foreign Office, if you remember, except that there were reports of the SANS and other than that they had made no decision. In written inquiries from the Foreign Office of the Prime Minister, the head of his office Lena Borislavova explicitly pointed out in two letters the procedures and therefore these 70 people are removed as persona non grata, and the lists given by DANS, in one of them yes, there is a resident, the other is on the principle I know Pesho, you know Gosho and therefore your spy teacher, gardeners, cooks, drivers. And the stupidest thing is that the Prime Minister came in with the line: These are the Russians who are taking us out of power, let me chase Russian spies. " - We, on the 8th, pulled out of the coalition, on the 9th, he barged in with that phrase. There are such people, you are Russian spies, if you do not know! We have a huge problem with a prime minister who's lying. Let's have a real closed session, come inside were DANS, DAR, Military Intelligence, Foreign Ministry... [[(Noise and lines from..) We continue the Change........................................................................................)]] They were, yeah. They were! You watered him and did it at nothing at this hearing. They were last night, too. The other thing that I'm curious about, because it wasn't just me at that council, the interesting transcript of this meeting on the 9th, which we're trying to demand and don't give us, was it when it came, because there were five or six people who said the same thing and reaffirmed their words, would anyone try to touch it and make a document fraud?! [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] We have a problem with a prime minister who is lying from the National Assembly's stand, using the entire state machine, including the repressive apparatus, because he had fallen out of power, which is a democratic procedure. A coalition to withdraw. And on top of that among you, I know that there are normal people here, in this part of the room, right, there aren't just sectarians. I mean, think about it. You don't have to come out here right now and tell me how right I am. Just when you close your eyes to sleep tonight, think about what this man has done and what kind of eyes such a person is now indirectly or directly going to take a mandate for government today! We have a problem as a parliament and as a country with such behaviour, which violates I don't know how many laws, lawyers will say, use the repressive apparatus and power to keep you in power. I don't know what we're gonna do, guys! One more thing to add. And you understand that because he is a prime minister, he was also resigned, all such decisions, resulting in the international crisis that we currently have, have consequences for every Bulgarian citizen. If there's anything going on right now with the fuel and the power plant and the outside people are coming out... [[(Replies from]] Waving hands and not waving the truth is that Bulgaria is extremely energy dependent, and at the moment we have dealt in this imbecile way with those on whom we depend. Okay, we don't have to depend on the Russians, Russian spies have to be removed. There are those, they've been pointed out, haven't they, spies, conversationally speaking, but the rest and the consequences?! And you don't care? God forbid! And if it does, what do we do?! And what do we do with a similar person who we let hold such power in his hands and use it in this way?! I really don't know what you think about this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u3	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Kostadinov for a statement? Please come in for an affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u4	Mr. Chairman, what has been said by the speaker, I can only confirm and say one more thing in this regard, because there is no need for findings. We will now submit an alert to the prosecution for a crime committed, in our opinion, by the person Kiril Petkov, of abuse of office, and we will ask for the temporary removal of this person from his position, that he cannot have an impact on an investigation carried out if the prosecution at all determines, of course. We'll leave that to the prosecution's conscience. However, what we want to say and what we want to note now, at the beginning of today, is about another issue which concerns another betrayal committed by this government under pressure, naturally, and an act of an external embassy, embassies, in this particular case. When talks about raising the veto of the negotiation process with Macedonia were held here, we warned that the only two instruments we have for impact are: firstly, the bilateral negotiation process between us before the start of the common negotiation process with Macedonia, on the one hand, and the European Union, on the other hand, and the fact that in this case no one can influence us. The decisions we make are sole and only ours, they are not affected by the common negotiating framework of the Union. By raising the veto and transferring our subjective rights to another entity, in the case of France as President of the European Union, we have given up our ability to decide and determine exactly what the negotiating process should be. We have explicitly warned that this could lead to irreversible consequences, given that one or more conditions can be changed than those proposed here by the French President. That wasn't taken into account. Yesterday, however, we learned, in the words of Macedonia's very Prime Minister Kovachevski, that Macron had sent at the twelfth hour literally because last night the French Presidency expired, a proposal in Skopje that was revised. Macron himself confirms this in his statement and says he has found a compromise. We here, when we voted on the proposal, which, of course, not all voted on it, and other MPs were against it, then we were under the impression that this was the compromise. Now it turns out that a compromise has been found. In this compromise, the historical conditions that we have set and which were in fact the basis of the whole dispute, because Macedonia and I have no political problems, we have no economic problems, we have a problem that is faked and stolen Bulgarian history, culture, language. That's the problem. This particular problem, however, is dropped in this revised, compromised proposal, in Kovachevski's words, confirmed by Macron. That a national betrayal was committed, the whole of Bulgaria understood it, with the exception of the MPs who voted for the proposal last week. Now everyone understands it once again, and since, once again, there is no need for findings, there should be decisions at the end of the day, we will submit a proposal today that will be for the annulment of this decision that has been taken, given that there are new factual circumstances. We will ask the Foreign Ministry to get acquainted with this compromise of the compromise proposal of the French country, which was submitted yesterday to the Macedonian capital, and we will insist, in view of the new factual circumstances, that the Bulgarian Parliament cancel its decision last week. In view of this, we will also insist that the Bulgarian side, in the face of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, should not sign the protocol, because we still have the opportunity not to complete this national betrayal in the twelfth hour until absolutely all the circumstances surrounding the one-man document revised by Macron are clarified. Because, once again, when Bulgaria gave up this decision of the National Assembly on its rights bilaterally to negotiate their relationship with Macedonia and to transfer them to a third country, we came to a situation where we could chase away a train. The French guarantee statement has been confirmed for the next time. Our historical experience in our relations with other countries that have given us guarantees has always been extremely bitter. Once again it has been confirmed by this, unfortunately, not well played by us historical situation. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Colleagues, I'll introduce you to two messages. The first of them: the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has, by its own orders, authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of aircraft with crew members of the Israeli Air Force. The orders issued are within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the passage, in order to protect the country. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international sector regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's air space clearances should be granted to the countries concerned following positive opinions from the competent authorities in these areas, namely the Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notifications were received on 29 and 30 June 2022, respectively by ICs. No 47-203-09-67 and 68 were granted to the Defence Committee. Second message, colleagues. On 30 June 2022, in accordance with the decision of the National Assembly of 1 April 2022 adopted in connection with the debates on the inquiry by the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Health Asena Serbenova has received material on the policy of the government to overcome the shortage of doctors in certain specialties and of nurses and to detain young doctors and nurses in Bulgaria. The material is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. It should participate: Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Retirement Government Kalina Konstantinova, Deputy Prime Minister for Economy and Industry and Minister for Economy and Industry in Retirement Cornelia Ninova and Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works in Retirement Mr. Grozdan Karadjov. Due to a business trip outside the country in the parliamentary control meeting under art. 104 will not participate the Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policies and Minister for Environment and Waters, Borislav Sandov. Due to urgent commitments in the parliamentary control meeting under art. 104 will not participate: the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria in resignation Mr. Kiril Petkov and the Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and the Minister of Finance in resignation Mr. Asen Vassilev. Colleagues, in this regard I will propose, of course, that we apply art. No. 104, para. 3 of the Houses.. to ask questions to the persons present here, and if there are any questions you wish to be asked to the persons absent in today's blitzcontrol, we will set an additional meeting to be asked. Mr. Yordanov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please call and bring in the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance in resignation because, first of all, I do not understand what urgent commitments mean in the situation we are in. We're in blitz control, there's an awful lot of questions they need to answer. And not to hide like women somewhere in a basement, but to come, if they're men, here to answer questions. [[heavy noise and lines from "We continue the Change", shout: "Eee!"]] [[(Strong noise and lines from.) We continue the Change.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u7	Mr. Yordanov, such qualifications are incorrect to be taken from the stands and even more are sexist and insult the ladies of the National Assembly. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u8	I apologize to the ladies, there's such an idiotic expression. I apologize to the ladies! I'm going to re-formulate my sentence. Not to hide like cowardly rabbits, but to come as men to answer questions. I apologize once again to the ladies, really. You can punish me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u9	Please take your seat and proceed seriously with the tasks ahead of us. And with regard to the expression, you may ask Mrs. Iva Miteva, who will explain to you exactly what it means. Are there any questions, colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Bikov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u10	Dear Mr. President, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members, we do have questions for the Prime Minister, although we are on the brink of not getting an answer to something that will put us in some other crisis, and we would therefore ask him with a shy heart.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u11	What's the procedure, Mr. Bikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u12	My procedure is that we do not understand what a more urgent commitment today, after everything that has happened, there is the Prime Minister, so that he does not come to parliament, given that yesterday Parliament was the only institution in the state, by the way, in its integrity, the Parliament, and those in power, and opposition, which was looking for some way out of this total impasse that we are currently stuck in. And I do, and that is also my main motivation to go out on this platform, and Bulgarian citizens to know it, because usually parliament robs the entire negative of politics to know that in this country right now there is only one institution that is trying to take responsibility for what is happening in the country, and this is the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] It is not the Bulgarian government, it is not the Bulgarian President, it is not the Bulgarian judiciary, if you will. The Bulgarian Parliament is the one who is currently trying to get the country out of the crisis, as far as its powers are concerned and as far as all other institutions are concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u13	Mr. Bikov, let's not give an assessment to the institutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u14	We can't help it if they're all hiding like mice in the other institutions. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and "There is such a people."]] My offer. Invite Mrs. Gencovska to come here to listen to her under blitzcontrol, because it turns out that she has been making all the decisions in the country for the last few days. It was not for Macedonia, it was not now for Russia. Whatever happens, the Bulgarian Prime Minister says Teodora Gencovska took it. If Teodora Genchevska made the decisions and was responsible, she should come and ask her about the oil, about the gas and all the other things. This is ridiculous! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and "There is such a people."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u15	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. If there is a question, colleagues, we continue the Change to those present today. I won't. Does GERB-SDS have a question, colleagues? For the procedure Mr. Balabanov before the question, Mr. Dobrev. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" we want 30 minutes rest to find the opportunity and invite here the Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev and, if possible, Prime Minister Kiril Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u17	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. At the request of the parliamentary group there is such a people. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u18	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We'll continue with the blitzcontrol. Mr. Dobrev, you had a question for those present. You're welcome to ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u19	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, my question was to Prime Minister Kiril Petkov or Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev. However, as they are gone, I will ask Mrs Cornelia Ninova, as I think she is relevant to the subject, and again with the preliminary agreement that I would rather expect an answer from them than from Mrs Nino. What's been happening to the fuel market in the last six months is bothering us. It bothers us because it has not changed the price of Russian oil, not gas, not electricity, not excise, not VAT in the last six months in question and still the fuel jumped with lev, even 1.20-1,30. The compensation of 25 cc. Now it's too short. At 4 leva. It looks small and as a mockery for people who have to pay almost twice as much fuel in six months. We have information and we wanted a hearing in the parliament of the head of the DANS because we have information that the price is marked 1 lev, 1.20 even. And that is not just me, but also colleagues not only from my parliamentary group and other parliamentary groups, including colleagues from the ruling Change Party. Where does this 1 lev go and how does it be redistributed? Is it true that 3.5 billion. lv. go to a Swiss account and from this Swiss account do they continue to some offshore, perhaps related to politicians, political parties, etc.? That's what we wanted to find out from the head of the NSA. That kind of hearing is giving up on us for now. At the same time, about a month ago, we asked, together with "Democratic Bulgaria" to make an extraordinary commission to investigate the fuel market in the National Assembly. It has already been 20 days, three weeks of programs. This item does not even find a place on the agenda of the National Assembly. In this regard, my question to you, Mrs. Ninova, is: is you and the administration in charge of monitoring the fuel market in Bulgaria? I remember three or four months ago regarding the price of oil you said you would fight the speculation at the price of oil. Do you have that kind of fuel research? Do you think this price is normal? What are you going to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u20	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u21	Dear Mr. Dobrev, honourable MPs, you know that I respect the National Assembly, and whenever I should have been here, I have been. [[(Replys:) That's right, that's right!]] Thank you for your confession. Even when I wasn't supposed to be here, I was. I'm asking for a corresponding reciprocity. Respect me, and don't expect me to answer questions I'm not informed about are not in my portfolio and I'm not responsible. Make an urgent request to come to the colleagues of the Minister of Energy, Minister of Finance and Prime Minister. Place them and get the corresponding answers. But your question is extremely pronounced.. inflation is terrible, people are poor. However, today we are facing a problem that can deepen these problems, because in two hours we may be facing the hypothesis of breaking diplomatic relations with Russia. And God forbid they stop the oil supplies, we'll be talking in a whole other situation much more impasseding than this one now. Therefore, I ask you, Mr. President of Parliament, as you will, when the procedure for questions to the ministers has been exhausted, or the Deputy Prime Ministers, or now, but I would like to address the National Assembly on the main issue for which we have only two hours. We have already wasted time on holidays, in procedures, but we cannot remain idle about the big problem that we need to debate today and that we need to find a solution to. So yes, the Prime Minister is gone, but please, Mr. Chairman, when you have exhausted the procedure for matters, give me the floor, in my right of a resigning minister, to address Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Of course, I'll give you the floor. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u23	Dear Mrs. Ninova, I appreciate you being here. Obviously from this office you are the only one who dares to take responsibility and face the National Assembly at such a difficult time. [[Heckling]] And Mr. Karadjov, of course. And not only heavy in terms of diplomacy, but also in terms of prices. And again, I would like to apologize, because the question is not exactly to you the one about fuels, but I am pleased with your conversation that you are still interested in this question. And mine, if I may, is advice to you and you to use the tools of the Ministry of Economy to investigate this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u24	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Do you want a hole, Mrs. Ninova? We are moving on to a question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you are, Mr. Chobanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, my question is for you. Indeed, you take responsibility in this situation to face Parliament and you yourself said that you would address the complex situation we are in, and you believe that we have two hours to resolve it. I hope so, I hope we have more time to resolve anything in this situation. But my question to you is what is your responsibility in all the events that are happening so far, as a very important member of the Council of Ministers, as the person who says he will do everything possible for this coalition and this government to continue to exist? How far were you aware of everything that happened to get to this situation? What were your actions in this direction and how will you take responsibility for the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleague and MPs! I will answer the question specifically, but I am usually impressed that in the last 48 hours instead of looking for a solution to the crisis situation, we are all transferring our hot potato and our responsibility for where we are. That's not productive. The National Security Council was informed, the President's representatives informed him accordingly, but there was no solution. At an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers the ministers are informed of the situation, but the Council of Ministers has not taken a decision. The National Assembly has been listening to various officials for 48 hours, but there is no solution. Okay, we can go on like this, but where's the way out of this situation? If it had come to a decision, the Constitution and the laws of the country, an institutional decision of the Council of Ministers, a decision of the Council of National Security at the Prime Minister, some decision of the Advisory Council for National Security, this is something else, but suddenly it turns out that everyone has been informed that something is happening, but no one has participated or taken decisions. There are no innocents in this situation. It's all our fault. [[(Shouts from GERB-SDS: ……]] Everyone knew about it somehow.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u28	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u29	So, please, everyone has emotions, everyone has addictions, it's not time for emotions now. Mr. Chairman, does the procedure allow me to speak now so I don't have to get up after this?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u30	Mrs. Ninova, let's finish the blizzard and then move on to this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u31	Okay, I'll give you more information in the next address.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u32	Because I'm gonna have to give her an opportunity for attitude. Mr. Tsonev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u33	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, the situation is complicated. Yes, the National Assembly has been trying to listen and has been doing so for 48 hours, but only within the framework of its constitutional powers, i.e. to exercise control over the actions of the executive. It is entirely within the powers of the Council of Ministers that the act which has been made and its annulment is also within the powers of the Council of Ministers. You, I am absolutely certain, have sincere concerns about the situation and after everything we have been told, and after everything we have learned that there has been a manifest abuse of power in personal, political and any other benefit from the Prime Minister, as we said last night, we stood until midnight to clarify what we already knew. The National Assembly simply does not have the power to decide anything about this case. Since you are asking what the solution is, I will allow myself to say very personally what I think the solution is: to stop supporting not this Prime Minister, but such a cabinet, which not only he but also other people believe that the Constitution, laws and procedures under which they are implemented are a door in the field. Obviously not for the first time, not for the second time, not for the third time, but for the nth time, and they keep doing it. That's the way out, general. And the concrete outcome must be found by the one who has powers under the Constitution and the one who has involved this situation. Because here is now the beginning of the abuse of another one for Russian spies and who is against Russian spies, which is another political nonsense that we can create. Because this is not at all about geopolitical orientation or compliance with any principles or Russian or Russian spies. We are talking about a frank blatant abuse of power by the Prime Minister. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u34	Mr. Tsonev, thank you. Mrs. Ninova, would you like a duplicate? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u35	Dear Mr. Tsonev, you say: do not support this government, to remind you that this government has fallen and it is resigned. One. Secondly, I think our position has been clear for two days now. Kiril Petkov cannot think of being the prime minister of this country anymore. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Is there a question from the BSP for Bulgaria? I won't. There is such a people, colleagues? No question. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? No question. Colleagues of AGE, do you have a question? Mr. Kostadinov, do you have a question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u37	Another question would have been asked by Mrs. Ninova, however, what she just said, literally seconds ago, changed the situation, so the question will now be as follows. Ms. Ninova, you said something that I think everyone or the larger of the House here agrees that Kiril Petkov should no longer be the Prime Minister of Bulgaria. On the other hand, what you said a few days ago that you were not aware of what is happening in Bulgarian-Russian relations and the decision to end the agremans of 70 Russian diplomats and technical assistants is something that you do not approve of and do not share. The question to you is this: in this situation the government is already resigned, do you think that, after all, as a moral act, a purely moral act, it is not right to resign both you and the representatives of the BSP in the residual coalition to give a clear signal to the Bulgarian citizens that such behaviour should not even be tolerated by the Prime Minister. Again, this will only be a moral and purely political act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u38	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u39	Mr. Kostadinov, I didn't quite understand the question, but as I understood it. Our resignations have been submitted to parliament by the Prime Minister. His resignation from the Council of Ministers represents the resignation of all ministers. Your proposal to make a separate act and submit it separately is not included in any rules, Constitution and so on. Our resignations are here! Giving up for the entire Council of Ministers, Kiril Petkov submitted our personal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Kostadinov, is there a line? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u41	I didn't use the word for a reason. I'm quite aware of that thing. Clean, as they say, even if you would like for your constituents, this would be a move that shows that there is still some residual morality in Bulgarian politics in view of your actions, your volitions in view of your stated intentions and ambitions from now on not to negotiate with Kiril Petkov. Yes, we know that the resignation has been filed, but let us not forget that this resignation has been filed after a vote of mistrust, that is, it is not a voluntary decision of Kiril Petkov. Here your government was forced to resign. So, again, morale was the act. Obviously, you have no intention of doing so. That was enough for me. Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u42	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Would you like a hole, Mrs. Ninova? No. From independent colleagues, do you have any questions? Mr. Petkov, Mr. Georgiev, do you have any questions? You don't. We're continuing the Change? No question. From GERB-SDS? Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Deputy Prime Ministers in resignation, honourable Members! My procedure is not exactly in the way of leading the President, but rather towards the people's representation. We are witnessing once again that the Prime Minister in resignation Mr. Petkov does not comply with the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, does not comply with the Constitution and does not attend the plenary so that the National Assembly can exercise direct parliamentary control over the decisions and actions and ask him a question. In short, the National Assembly is deprived of the opportunity to take responsibility for any decisions or actions of Kiril Petkov, albeit in resignation. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I ask you to set an hour when we will be able to ask our questions about blitzcontrol of Kiril Petkov and Assen Vassilev. They do not comply with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure, do not fulfil their obligations under the Constitution, they have made up their minds! Some kind of journey, unknown where, so that they do not appear in the National Assembly, especially when the state is facing a series of crises. Mr. Chairman, in my opinion it is unacceptable that Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister should not be present I am talking about Mr. Petkov and Mr. Vasilev in a meeting on blitzcontrol. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I particularly remind them, if it turns out to be true the claim leaked in the media that it is possible...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u44	Mrs. Atanasova, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u45	...the next prime minister to be the current deputy prime minister. So please, with all the seriousness of the position you are taking, please! The National Assembly will hold the Blitzcontrol of Prime Minister Petkov and Deputy Prime Minister Vasiliev's resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u46	Please tell us your parliamentary group to which one will have a question?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u47	Both of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u48	You have one question, how are you going to ask both of them one question, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u49	Mr. Ivanov, it just turned out to be in answer to a question we asked Mrs. Nino, quite correctly she answered that this is not her portfolio. Here, she'll confirm it. In this case, I believe that the procedure has not been carried out at all...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u50	Mrs. Atanasova, you have one question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u51	...for blitzcontrol.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u52	Can you tell which one it's going to be assigned to? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u53	Both of you. Mr. Chairman, I don't see what procedure you're asking me. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] They have to be here, not somewhere else.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u54	There are rules, read the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u55	They have to.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u56	Read the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u57	They have to be here, and we both have no obligation to answer you, Mr. Ivanov, nor do you have the right to ask us. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u58	Mrs. Atanasova, and I must respond to this procedure. The regulations allow the representatives of the Council of Ministers in the face of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers on several grounds not to be present under blitzcontrol and we are currently in one of these hypotheses. So let's talk that they have broken the Rules and the Constitution is more than incorrect and legally unsupported. [[Heckling]] I'll give you the floor, Mr. Cholakov. The rules in this hypothesis say that when there are questions to some of the absent persons, the day and time at which they will answer is determined. So the Rules of Procedure say that the persons to whom there are questions must be specified, that is to say which persons you have questions to ask, so that I may call them and appear. Now, regarding the first question, you had the right to say my question is to the Prime Minister, not to Deputy Prime Minister Ninova, we will ask it next time. You have exhausted your right to a question and there is no way to comment now on Ms. Ninova's answer. So right now you're entitled to one question. Are you gonna tell me which person he's gonna be assigned to or not? [[Comments from GERB-SDS. National Representative Radomir Cholakov wants the floor.]] That's the situation we're in. Mr. Cholakov, you have the floor for procedure. I hope we can clarify this issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, you obviously don't know what situation we're in. I don't know if you're aware of how pathetic this room looks, what's happening here, behind my back. You don't seem to realize that at the moment all these formal procedures you're referring to are ridiculous. You don't seem to realize what a crisis the state is in! Deputy Prime Minister Ninova just told you that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u60	What's the procedure, Mr. Cholakov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u61	But you obviously can't...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u62	Except to criticize the chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u63	The procedure is... Now I'm telling you what a procedure is. The procedure is that you are not a MP. You are currently representing the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u64	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u65	And you have no right to party bias.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u66	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u67	You have no right in general.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u68	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u69	Even less in the crisis we're in. Call immediately from the position you are still taking, still the Prime Minister and still the Minister of Finance, to ask them as many questions as we want. There are no rules right now. Understand this thing! [[Relations from DPS and from "We continue the Change."]] At the moment, the Prime Minister in resignation must answer until he answers all our questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u70	Come on, come on! Sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u71	Please, Mr. Cholakov, take your place. Let's diversify Mr. Atalay a bit, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u72	As if we will not be able to diversify much, Mr. Chairman, and we will be talking again about the same thing about the Prime Minister's absence.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u73	I have the procedure, Mr. Atalay, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u74	To you the procedure is to do everything possible for the Prime Minister to come to the Chamber so that we can ask really very pressing questions which concern the complex situation in Bulgaria. Because the Prime Minister, today is July 1st, we expected gas to flow from the link Greece Bulgaria. If he, as far as I have information, has gone to cut a ribbon of something that is not complete and does not run gas, and cannot run because there is no Act 16 and is not certified by the European institutions, it means that he has gone today to do another violation. To keep him from breaking the laws, gas from this pipe cannot flow, please be...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u75	Mr. Atalay, there's no gas procedure in the regulations. Please, a specific procedure for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u76	No, no, I'm telling you to protect him from wrongdoing and let him come...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u77	I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u78	...to move on. And, Mrs. Ninova, you should know that there's no gas flowing from there today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u79	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Gazhev, before I give you my word, colleagues, I would just like to point out to you that there are two points in the weekly program that are particularly important today to be accepted. These are: the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, which contains texts that need to be adopted today, because there is a criminal procedure that is in a very advanced phase, and we risk Bulgaria being sanctioned. And the other point is: the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, to overcome the consequences, this point concerning the filling of the regulations and the telk decisions. This concerns a very large part of Bulgarian citizens and I believe that it is not responsible to leave a gap in legislation and to cause chaos with regard to telk solutions. That's really gonna make it hard for you. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] So, fellow Members, I call on you to stop the procedures, to return to the blitzcontrol, to follow the procedure. If there are questions to the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev, we will set a day and time when they will be asked and ask you to actually vote on these two points. Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers in resignation, Mr. Chairman! I'm gonna start backwards on what you said. As you know from the Rules, every first Friday of the month there is up to two hours of hearing of the Blitzcontrol of ministers, which, if conducted correctly with all Deputy Prime Ministers, takes about two hours, that is to say, we are directly entering the hypothesis of parliamentary control. That is, there is usually no legislative programme on such a Friday. So you obviously wanted to sabotage the blitzcontrol to have a legislative program, because I can't explain it any other way. Secondly, the Rules say that ministers or deputy prime ministers, or the prime minister, cannot actually appear in parliamentary control solely and solely for urgent reasons. Now, I am reading to you a press release of the Council of Ministers in order to say: "Dear colleagues, Prime Minister Kiril Petkov will visit the gas measuring station in the area of the village of Malo Kadievo at 10:00 p.m. "Now, the most likely urgent reason is that at 11:00 p.m. the gas station will grow wings and fly away and can not visit it for example in two hours and at 10:00 p.m. precisely. But just now the same government press office released a new press release that the inspection of the gas connection itself will be delayed and will take place later today. That is, according to the press office of the Council of Ministers, the urgent cause of Kiril Petkov has dropped out. So be so kind as to contact the Council of Ministers and invite him to take up his chair properly, because there is no longer a needy reason for it in the words of the Council of Ministers itself and not ours. And in conclusion, I just want to tell you that if these laws are really that important, we can really postpone with a few hours carrying out the blitzcontrol, accept the two laws in question, if they are so important, and continue with Kiril Petkov and Asen Vasilev, if that is really important.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u81	Mr. Gadget, thank you. I point out that I was going to suggest to the House that we shift the regular control after the blitz-control and adopt these bills that I have already mentioned, so I had no intention, Mr. Gajev, of sabotaging the blitz-control. We are continuing with a question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u82	We have a question for Asen Vassilev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u83	Do you have one? Do you have a question, Mr. Karadaye? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam and Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Gazhev, you say you will continue with Asen Vassilev and Kiril Petkov. No, we're not gonna keep going. They're gone. They're gone. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, in your previous answer to our question, you said that everyone is guilty of this matter. Personally, I do not see what is our fault, my personal or the group that I represent, what is our fault on this issue, which is important for the country? But my request to you is to name them guilty and what is their fault, not to hang like that again, if I can afford to quote the classics of the Allangro....indicted here because the Council of Ministers, that he is resigned, is not an alibi to continue to violate the Constitution and the laws of the country. And, Deputy Prime Minister, you support and with your support you are somewhat accomplices of the sworn criminals, the offenders of the Constitution, the offenders of the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria in the face of Kiril Petkov, Asen Vassilev and their entire group. So my request is: please tell me who is responsible for what? Mr. Chairman, I have a request for you, too, so I won't take the floor again under procedure. Turn to Mr. Rashkov. He has shown, since he has been resident in the Ministry of Interior, that he can do a number of things... no matter what the rules are, so that these two persons can be brought here to the Chamber so that we can listen to them. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u85	Mr. Karadaye, thank you. Mrs. Ninova, will you still take the attitude? Please, it's not exactly government policy, but if you wish to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u86	Obviously today I will be in charge of all the policies.................................................................................. Mr. Karadayi, who will support the Bulgarian Socialist Party is the work of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Since I was president of this party, I have stopped any attempts by outsiders and other entities from interfering with the decisions of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So who we support, if we support in the future and how we support, will decide only us. I didn't say you or the MPs were guilty. I listed the institutions that had information, but they didn't make a decision. And that's why I said there are no innocents. For the third time, if you give me the floor for a little more than two minutes, I will tell you what I consider personal responsibility in this case and who should bear it, because now in the answer I have only two minutes, and I would like to speak longer as an address to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. The line, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, in both matters, we have not questioned that it is every political party's right to determine who it will support and what policies it will lead, and so on, but in the context of rights are also responsibilities. So we just want to remind you that the responsibility for these policies is yours, and for this support is yours. Because if we now find that the state is facing, to put it mildly, diplomatic scandals, a constitutional crisis, and if the Prime Minister and other cabinet members are guilty of this, they are guilty of political responsibility and those who brought them into power in the name of bright ideals and objectives such as social policy. And yesterday and the other day we saw that the entire parliament, not only BSP, is concerned about social policy and adopted a budget twice as generous to people and to business. So the question of rights is right with the question of responsibility. Again, the sovereign right is yours, as well as ours, as well as GERB, and all other political parties, but in this case it is not only Kiril Petkov's fault. The responsibility for this cabinet and its actions lies with those who support it. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u89	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Would you like a hole, Mrs. Ninova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u90	Mr. Tsonev, the people will give us assessments of the responsibility we bear in this government, not someone personal. Each individual has the right to speak his mind, but the people will say in some possible elections. Yes, it is a common responsibility, but it is also a responsibility to increase the minimum wage, to increase motherhood, to have free kindergartens, to have an increase in pensions, to have money for farmers so that there is something to eat at the Bulgarian table, and not to list more things that this government has done thanks to BSP. Let's say not just us, but mostly the BSP. I congratulate Parliament on the adopted budget yesterday. Only one amazes me when it was the vote of distrust for economics and finance, I heard from the same people who yesterday called for more spending that the government is spending a lot of money, which is a pro-inflation measure and will increase inflation. And yesterday, all of a sudden, the same people offered more money to this money, which is a pro-inflation measure, and it's the only contradiction that I can't explain. Otherwise, the budget has become good and I think both the economy and the families will feel that very soon. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u92	I want the word in the manner of conduct. Please remind the Deputy Prime Minister how the budget was adopted and who made the budget!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u93	Here you go, Mr. Tsonev. However, please do not take any part in what Mrs Ninova has said.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u94	Yes, it is in the manner of conduct, Mr President, because I did not ask a question about the macroeconomic parameters of the budget, nor did the reply contain. Not that we're running away from this debate, I don't have a procedure to respond to right now. You understand that when you don't make a note to stick to your answers to the subject, now I don't have a procedure to answer. And the answer is very simple. Because the government's macroeconomic policy blew up inflation, the very logical consequence of the inflation explosion is to have one or two billion more revenues and the finance minister refused to include them in the distribution to people and businesses. It, inflation, has been blown up by this policy, which leads the cabinet and its finance minister, which is why it is double and triple than it is in Europe and in the world.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u95	Mr. Tsonev, I'm sorry to intrude, but you're already interfering with people who are completely out of hand who can't take sides. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u96	Exactly, but here they are, aren't they? The fact that they're hiding doesn't give me any reason to spare them. Moreover, you have brought me into this subject, and you have brought me into this subject by allowing macroeconomic analyses to be done here. That's the macroeconomic truth. We, responsible politicians and economists, blew up inflation, brought it to the benefit of the people, at least some of the money back to the people. [[Applause and cheering by DPS: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u97	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. After all, you had the opportunity to take an attitude. Is there a question from the BSP for Bulgaria? I won't. There is such a people, colleagues? No question. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? No. From rebirth? Mr. Ganev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u98	Mr. Chairman, just to clarify before I ask the question: if we keep the question, will the Prime Minister really come, or is he not coming?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u99	If there are questions, you will set a day and time to be asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u100	Ah, day and hour ever...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u101	It's the procedure, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u102	Yeah, yeah, I get it. I have no claim against you at all. It's clear he's not coming. The guy's hiding. Mrs. Ninova, the question will be for you. It is connected again to the person Kiril Petkov, of whom at one point here the majority believe what he says, at another moment you all say: but he has another meaning. Then he lies again, again. It's a total blur. Just days ago, the person Kiril Petkov told foreign media...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u103	Mr. Ganev, you are still talking about the Prime Minister and the good tone and the law requires that you treat him with respect.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u104	I don't insult him in any way. He's the face Kiril Petkov. There's nothing offensive about that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u105	Yes, it is. Please refrain!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u106	Ms. Ninova, to official foreign media, in an official statement the person Kiril Petkov says that if your government falls, with you, then the supply of weapons to Ukraine should be stopped. They're going to stop the weapons supply to Ukraine! In this regard, you of this tribune have repeatedly stated that your signature does not sit under such documents, there is no such thing, you deny. However, you know that it reaches the border, to Ukraine, but we do not export weapons. So did the person Kiril Petkov lie then, or did you just not tell the truth? One of the two must be said by this tribune. Who lied? Because this is an official statement by Kiril Petkov and it should be known: is he lying again, or you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u108	Dear colleague, if I use your statement, you have just lied. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] Take out Mr. Petkov's interview and see that there is no word for it. He says: "He will stop exporting to Poland. "....... to what and where there are no such words in the interview. As far as the second part of the question is concerned. For the 169th time I confirm to the highest forum of the Republic of Bulgaria the National Assembly that Bulgaria has not carried out a single bullet for Ukraine. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] She has exported weapons and ammunition to 64 countries in the world. I understand that you will fully use this manipulation to cast doubt on the government, on the Ministry of Economy and Industry, on me personally. When you get a single document with a signature for such a thing, call me, but first ask the NSA, who have two representatives in the Commission, ask Military Intelligence who have representatives in the Commission, the Ministry of Defence, from the Foreign Affairs information: has there been such a thing since this government, and not only. Since 2014, since the Minsk agreements, no weapons and ammunition have been exported to Ukraine and Russia. You can go on as long as you want to manipulate, pull clippings out of newspapers, that's the facts. There are some principles in law: it is impossible to prove a negative fact, it is impossible to prove something that is not there. I say: there is no such thing, but it is mandatory in the law that claims something to prove it with a document. Get me one document that there are signatures of all those persons I listed for export to Ukraine, bring it here and call me to come to control. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Ganev, would you like a line? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u110	Mrs. Nino, I gave you the perfect option to point out and say that the person Petkov once again lied. You have decided to hide it, to hide it yourself and to tell you already: and you to lie, I will not read the site of the Guardian, here it is, you can open it, see, there it is written everything. [[shows]] [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And that's not the point. The fact is this whole thing. Anyone can and you can see what the person Kiril Petkov said in front of the English media. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u111	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u112	Fact is all that's been said. You don't mean he's lying, he's obviously not lying. I guess he's not lying. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u113	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u114	From now on, things are clear. However, it is not important that the Group of Revival and the entire AGE does not trust you in all of what you are doing as policies, and especially what you are saying. But more important is another: what the Bulgarian people believe. And more than that, what kind of paperwork did the president's administration get, what you signed. You and there explained that this was not yours, that it was only the caretaker government. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No one believes you or Kiril Petkov or your entire government. Whenever you leave, it'll be too late. [[Applause from the Revival, Noise and Replices from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u115	Mr. Ganev, who trusts who, we'll find out in the next election eventually. You might be surprised, too. First Mrs. Ninova has the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u116	No, first procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u117	No, no. First it's the back, Mr. Svilensky. Mrs. Ninova, would you like a duplicate? Here you go. Mr. Dilov, the procedure will be in a few minutes from the BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u118	My procedure is the way I conduct myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u119	Mr. Svilensky, look at the regulations. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u120	Obviously, reenactment will use the theme "Weapon" to accumulate a party dividend for election appearances, but will use it with lie and manipulation. I call on Bulgarian citizens: listen carefully, think, look at evidence before deciding. Place your bets on people who are telling the truth and who can be responsible for their actions. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Svilensky, before I give you the floor. Article 49, para. 1: On procedural questions, the word shall be given immediately, unless there are requests for a reply, a duplicate or an explanation of a negative vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You've read the Rules well, but it says here:...... on questions of appeal................................................................................... I am not taking the floor on procedural matters, but on a procedure for the manner of conduct and therefore the procedure is given immediately so that I can correct you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u123	We're talking about the same thing, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u124	If you're gonna give me the procedure after six lines, there's nothing to correct. I need to talk to Tsoncho Ganev. That's why it's a procedure in the way you're being led. You make some kind of violation, the people's representative comes out and makes you a procedure in the manner of conduct, and then you respond to this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u125	Mr. Svilensky, there is no other text in the Rules...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u126	Let's listen to each other!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u127	...to settle the procedures. So this procedure in the manner of conduct is part of art. 49. You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u128	Therefore, Mr President, you are chairman of this House to observe the spirit of the Rules, the spirit of conduct, and to feel the atmosphere of this House and when a Member of the National Assembly has nothing to say and speak lies about this tribune. Mr. Ganev, you're telling lies. If you want, you can indict me. You pull out a phone, an expensive phone you have, show Mrs. Ninova and explain what it says in the Guardian. Well read it, if you can translate it, but speculate from this tribune and please your constituents, we will not allow that. Because in this same interview, as you were told, neither writes Ukraine nor writes weapons nor writes bullets, but you are lying from this tribune. And once again, you are lying to the Bulgarian society from the highest tribune, leave the Bulgarian MPs. How long can you allow this, Mr. Chairman? And that's why I took the floor to you in the manner of conduct, because every MP can speak what he wants from this tribune, but no one has the right to lie and make up facts, and this Mr. Tsoncho Ganev says six times the name, so that he can get on this stand six times a personal explanation, in the manner of conduct as you wish, and to deny me that you are lying. Mr. Ganev, you have currently lied to 7 million Bulgarian citizens, 240 MPs and everyone watching this meeting, so if you can disprove me, go out on this stand and read Kiril Petkov's interview at the Guardian. If not, I say again, you lied to the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u129	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I'll say two words. Mr. Svilensky, I can't do anything, and I don't have the right to evaluate who says what, but that's why Mrs. Ninova has the right to the backrest, and you're going on a procedure and you're taking the attitude accordingly. Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u130	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is in the manner of keeping you, Mr. President, because when the Bulgarian Parliament talks about Bulgarian documents, remove a Bulgarian document, Mr. Ganev, don't give me the Guardian. By your logic, do you know what you are when you pull out the Guardian? You're a stranger. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're the foreigner, yes. Because they were talking to you about Bulgarian documents, and you can't get one like that because you just threw a claim pre-electionally, it's just... You don't really have any parliamentary experience. On the other hand, Mr. Chairman, so as I listened to the birth and, of course, the leader who is entitled to his own, I understood how wise our party BSP is because the National Council of BSP, Mr. Chairman, I say it before you, refused to support Mr. Kostadinov's candidacy for mayor of Varna, supported by BSP! That's what BSP turned down, and now I understand why. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Bojankov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u132	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is for you, not for Mr. Tsoncho Ganev, because we are not offended, we are insulting people who claim that with a gun on their head they will be vaccinated, but inoculated, people who buy houses with party subsidy, and even people who divorce their own wives so that their house, bought with a party subsidy, in the declaration... [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But we are particularly offended when there are inaccuracies from the stands, and it is a clear inability to read interviews and quote facts, because, how can I tell you... It is best to give you an example of how to read data one to one, because Mr. Ganev took the liberty of making his own writings: "Almost every time you follow, Mr. Ganev, how to do it I had to vote with GERB and Desislava Atanasova was a guest in the room of our parliamentary group. Says Elena Guncheva, who used to sit near you. However, statistics also confirm the words of Mrs. Guncheva, only that it comes first not GERB, but DPS as your partner in the vote - 66.17 per cent matches the votes, and 65.52 per cent matches GERB. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u133	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Tsoncho Ganev for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u134	Mr. Chairman. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u135	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u136	I have no intention of commenting on the last speaker. He's proof that all you have to do is see what he looks like and it's all over. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u137	Mr. Ganev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u138	Mr. Svilenski, I would like to tell you that you mentioned 7 million Bulgarians, unfortunately for all of us, but it is a fact precisely because the demographic crisis is a function of your governments all these years, that 32 years your entire party has been ruling in all kinds of coalitions and ruins, and made it possible for the Bulgarians to evacuate from Bulgaria and go to live abroad together. I'll say it again: don't hide. Because when you talk about DPS, who runs the DPS twice? Who? Who raised the man? Shall we say? BSP. BSP rules in coalitions. Your chairman of the Orlov Bridge was kissing the President of the DPS and apologizing, not rebirth. So, I ask you very much, when you talk about a demographic crisis, before you mention that you have ruled, that you have made us disappear as a people physically, and you have a direct responsibility, you and your party, this thing is going to happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. I will appeal to all those present in the stands... [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Mr. Chenchev, just a moment. [[Heckling]] Mr. Chenchev, please take your place! [[Heckling]] Mr. Chenchev, please take your place! [[Heckling]] Just to say that Mrs. Nino asked for the floor and she has about 17 minutes to speak. Please keep that in mind. [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] Mr. Popov, I haven't given you the floor yet. Wait a minute. Colleagues, I'm appealing to slow down a little bit. Everyone who speaks a little quieter because it's become quite intrusive in the room since this morning. For procedures with which the two formations continue to enter into controversy, I will take the floor, Mr. Popov, keep that in mind. However, Mrs. Nino has asked to speak, and I note that she has already 17 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u140	I'll be very brief, Mr. Chairman. First, master the House, do not give the floor to a MP who insults another MP! Punish him for that. Here in pointless procedures to give the floor to... We are facing a very severe crisis right now. We are currently wasting parliamentary time giving the floor in procedures that are not really procedures to a MP who lies here from this tribune. Please take their word away and go really to the essential issues that concern the whole of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u141	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I said to Mr. Bojankov I did not take it as some kind of insult, because he is always well dressed, neat and looks appropriate in the National Assembly. [[Laughter]] I'm serious about this. Mr. Svilensky, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The procedure is again to you in the manner of conduct, because I have called on Mr. Tsoncho Ganev six times to come out and refute this lie that he tried to tell from this tribune. Mr. Tsoncho Ganev came out, didn't say a word about the interview at the Guardian...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u143	Mr. Svilensky, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u144	...I don't know for what reason, but he started throwing some ridiculous statements about the management of BSP and DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u145	Mr. Svilensky, to me, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u146	Yes, Mr. Ganev, we participated two or three times in government and when we participated, Bulgarian citizens lived well. The last recalculation of pensions before this was in 2008 precisely by the Triple Coalition. So on this soil, you're not gonna get a lot of voters if that's your point. And what Bojankov's talking about is seeing your votes. Because it is very easy to talk here that we are against NATO and against the European Union, but not to vote on the points for NATO and the European Union. Right? Because we have these votes too, Mr. Ganev. Now let's get back to your lie.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u147	Mr. Svilensky, please! The procedure is for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u148	Once again, I'm telling you your name so you can go out again. Mr. Tsoncho Ganev, you lied to the Bulgarian citizens. Go out and apologize at least because anyone can make a mistake, anyone can be fooled, but you are permanently misguided, not only in the gym, but also in politics. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u149	Mr. Svilensky, I still appealed to end this topic, with the attacks between the two parliamentary groups! Mr. Dilov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is entirely to you. I hope that perhaps with it I will end this clash between rebirth and BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u151	I hope so.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u152	My procedure is to help me understand if what I'm about to propose is admissible within the meaning of Parliament's Rules of Procedure? From everything we have heard in the last two days, from what the services have said about the crisis with Russia, from the words of Minister Genchovska, after the Prime Minister obviously will not come today to blitzcontrol, it became clear that there is, after all, in the Bulgarian government, a person who is aware of everything that has happened and the way it happened. This man's name is Lena Borislavova. My proposal, Mr. President, is: is it possible for us to invite her and ask her questions? She is, of course, not a political person in the sense that she was not elected by this Parliament, but she was a colleague of ours. I believe that even because of your personal contact with her, perhaps you can persuade her to come and explain to us what actually happened to the procedure for the expulsion of the 70 diplomatic representatives of Russia if, of course, this is possible, as I asked at the outset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u153	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Colleagues, I will put to the vote the proposal that I had made earlier, namely: let's look at today's item. 3 et c. 4 of the National Assembly's Weekly Programme. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code and the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences. My proposal is for these points to be considered in this order immediately after the completion of the blitzcontrol and for Parliamentary control to continue after their completion. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, although there is no reverse opinion of the Chairman's proposal, but let's say... [[Heckling]] Here you go. [[Heckling]] Of course I'll give you the floor. I'm saying that there is no formal procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Come in for the procedure, Mrs. Atanasova. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, the so- proposed legislative continuation of Parliament's work has missed a very important detail, and this is my reverse proposal. If you remember, yet at the Chairman's Council we agreed to extend the deadline for the Commission's work, which had to disclose all the data and circumstances with the signed Memorandum with Gemcorp? You, Mr President, have made a commitment that, as the term of this committee expires today, the President and the members of this committee have stated in writing that it is necessary more time to hear all interested parties receive their reports and information they have requested to extend this deadline by another month. However, now you are somehow conveniently missing this agreement of the Conference of Presidents. I do not want to remind you that we have been insisting that this committee take place for more than two months, to form, to select members and guides and to work. I do not want to remind you that this committee is not chaired by GERB, but by your recent coalition partner from BSP. I don't want to remind the House what we talked about Wednesday morning, Mr. Chairman, with you at the Chairman's Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u155	I'll turn it on, Mrs. Atanasova, if you'll give me a chance to explain. I'll turn it on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u156	Great! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u157	You just didn't give me a chance. [[Heckling]] Mr. Dimitrov, one moment. Since this item is not part of the agenda, Mrs. Atanasova, I have to offer it further under para. 5 And if we extend the time, I will propose it, as we spoke at the Council of Presidents, and as we spoke in a private conversation with you earlier. I keep my word and I won't run away from it, but it's not part of the agenda and to make sense to include it. First, let us extend the time and the House to decide that we will have legislative activity, and I will propose this point at which you decide the sequence as a point. 1, t. 2 or t. Three, eventually, today. So there are no two opinions on this. Mr. Dimitrov, come in for procedure. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u158	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, we support your procedural proposal to look at the two bills now, but I am making a proposal to you, to these bills to be viewed before Parliament's control, to add more. 6, which is: First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Value Added Tax Act. It is about the VAT registration threshold, which is unanimously supported at first reading in the Budget Commission. [[Replys from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS.]] This, fellow Members, is a key reform for the small business that will go without a big debate, and these days in Parliament I have heard many of you say how important reforms are. We agree with you and therefore together to make such an extremely important reform for the small business, which is unanimously supported by the Budget Committee. So I hope, colleagues, your support and your understanding of the subject. Thank you. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u159	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. My fellow Members, I am voting on the procedural proposal I have made, which is that. 3 et c. 4 of the Weekly Programme to be reviewed today after completion of the blitzcontrol and after their exhaustion to continue with regular control until 14.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u160	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u161	Mr. Anastasov, we're already in voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u162	Procedure! Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u163	We're already in voting mode, Mr. Anastanov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u164	Mr. Anastasov, I said: I'm voting... [[Heckling]] I'll give you the floor, but... [[Heckling]] Mr. Anastasov! [[Heckling]] Please, let's hear your proposal. We're calling off the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u165	Procedure, Mr. Chairman. I want a roll call check on behalf of the DPS parliamentary group. [[Noise and lines.]] By reading the names. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u166	Mr. Anastasov, on your proposal, the quorum will be checked through the computerised system. Colleagues, I'm asking for registration to see if we have the necessary quorum. Dear colleagues, I appeal to you once again: the two bills are extremely important, as well as an extension of... [[The National Representatives of GERB-SDS and DPS are leaving the hall.]] Mrs. Atanasova, you called on us to include an extension for Gemcorp. I ask you to continue the work of the National Assembly. Colleagues, this is an irresponsible attitude! Abort registration. Dear colleagues, please show the result on the dashboard by group. [[(Applause and cheering by]] I would like to personally congratulate my colleagues from "We are continuing the Change" - the two MPs from GERB-SDSS, the colleagues from BSP, the colleagues from BSP, there is such a people, from "Democratic Bulgaria", from the Revival and the independent ones who remained in the Chamber to continue the work of the National Assembly. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor. Everyone, please take your seats. I give the word to Mrs. Ninova, who has been waiting for an hour. Colleagues, please take your seats. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please take your seats. Colleagues from GERB, are you coming in or out of the room? Please ask the Quaestors to ask the MPs to take their seats or to leave the Chamber. [[Noise and Resurrection lines.]] Mr. Ganev, if you please take your place, then you will have a chance. We will not again deal with fairs and incorrect behaviour by the MPs. Mrs. Ninova, come in. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Ganev, if you don't take your place, I will remove you from this room! Mr. Kostadinov, if Mr. Ganev does not take his place, I will remove him from the Chamber. [[Loud noise and lines from rebirth.]] Mr. Ganev, take your seat, please. [[Noise and lines.]] After listening to Mrs. Ninova, we will proceed to this issue. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please take your seats. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Ganev, this is your final warning! I'll kick you out of the courtroom! This is your last warning! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues from GERB, and for you last warning, either sit down or chase you one by one because you are disturbing the order of the House. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] I appeal, colleagues, please take your seats. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Manev, please, please, really, let us continue the work of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u167	Mr. Chairman, very briefly to you. Really personal to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u168	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u169	There was a very ugly accident earlier. We witnessed it, we heard it. I will not repeat the ugly words that have been said by one of the MPs here "Iskren Mitev," but this is not the first time. It's a relapse. It doesn't matter who it was told to. Someone can't swear in this room. You can't! Please, I don't know, you probably didn't hear it, of course you can't hear it from here, but take action. This is absolutely unbearable. It's a relapse. Until when? You see what's happening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u170	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. I'll check the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u171	Well, check it out. Over there is the people's representative to whom this curse was addressed. Is that normal?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u172	Take your place, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Ganev, I don't think it's appropriate for you to take the procedure. The Chairman of your Parliamentary Group expressed the group's position. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please take your seats and continue with the work of the National Assembly. Please! Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u173	Dear Bulgarian citizens, we have been in so many crises lately and for several days this sharpening of relations with the Russian Federation. I came in the morning with faith that crises mobilize character, coolness, reason. In two hours I am less confident, but please listen to me, honourable Members, then decide what to do. The situation we are in right now on the subject of the expulsion of Russian diplomats for me at least is absolutely déjà vu. Bulgaria, the Bulgarian National Assembly, government and political parties were in the same situation a few years ago. Easy, really, but the same one. Please, if you are patient, let me read you a few words to your young colleagues without being edified. Now you're learning big politics. You have to learn from history. To the colleagues with whom we were then in this Chamber, at that time, which I will remind them, that such a case we were looking at here and there were no lines: The National Assembly is not the place to resolve these issues. So you're inconclusive. I will remind you of what happened then with my address to Parliament years ago. You'll see it sounds exactly the same at the moment. There are moments in history that require the highest degree of wisdom, intelligence and leadership. Both Europe and Bulgaria are at this moment now. Recognizing the powers of the executive, we believe that in a parliamentary republic, here in the Bulgarian Parliament, we should take an attitude. We must make a decision not to leave the Bulgarian government alone at this difficult time and all institutions to unite for Bulgaria. This is what I say, as leader of the opposition, when he rules Boyko Borisov in a tough war between us. We've been separated on a lot of issues. We're separated now. The coalition partners in the government are of different opinion. There are different positions even in the ruling GERB party of their MPs. What do we suggest? What can bring us together, I say again, at this difficult moment for Bulgaria and Europe. We offer a common position of the Bulgarian National Assembly, united around universal human values and principles of international law, the principle of equality and mutual respect between the Member States of the European Union, which are unwarranted principles for us. First, if you agree, let us declare that we are for peace and against war. I take it none of you are questioning this argument. Peace is achieved by dialogue, not by weapons and threats. Secondly, to state that we are for the truth and for the principle of international and Bulgarian law.. innocent until proven guilty. I also assume you agree. Until now, none of us know exactly what the truth is. Let us say that we want to teach it to the Members of the National Assembly. Until now, no one has given undisputed evidence of anyone's guilt. Probably doesn't mean for sure. No one should be judged in any way. Third, until undisputed evidence is given, Bulgaria should not chase Russian diplomats and not recall its own. That's many years ago. Fourth, to say that we share solidarity but solidarity with the law, with the truth, with the principles of sovereignty and non-interference of foreign countries in making national decisions. The great European democracies set an example for us these days. French President Macron will visit Moscow and meet with President Putin. The German government expelled four Russian diplomats, but accepted four new ones in their place. The government said openly and honestly to its people and to the world, I quote: "London expressed discontent in order to force us to adopt certain measures, but we will not expel Russian diplomats. We reserve a channel for dialogue with Russia. Austria has expressed a desire to be a mediator between Europe and Russia. Today, honourable Members, in the wind of this unprecedented crisis, the leader of the European Union is Bulgaria. It was then. As such, we should be the bridge between Europe and Russia. The Bulgarian Prime Minister has repeatedly supported the role of mediator between Europe and Turkey and between Europe and the Western Balkans. I think there is no more extraordinary moment where Bulgaria, as President of the Council of the European Union, takes on this role as a bridge. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, if I may sum up, we propose a common position of the Bulgarian National Assembly. We're setting up four of these. We want peace, not war. We want to know the truth and respect the principle of innocence until proven guilty. Until then, we will not expel Russian diplomats. Until then, we won't recall our own. As President of the Council of the European Union, we are ready to take the lead in the mediation of Europe dialogue. Honourable Members, this is about 30 March 2018. The case is hidden. I want to tell you what happened here then. After this declaration Mr. Tsvetanov, who was chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB, made a fiercely aggressive address after me. Cruelly aggressive! It was a crazy scandal here. We asked for a break after that my address and gathered at the Chairman's Council. At the time the Prime Minister was Borisov, and I was President of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr. Tsvetanov and then was Tsveta Karayancheva. We gathered in her office. I convinced Borisov with arguments for the Bulgarian national interest, what will follow. Tsvetanov was screaming wildly. What happened in the end? We entered the hall and announced that we would not pursue Russian diplomats. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Bulgaria will not be chasing Russian diplomats for the case for the time being, but believes it has expressed enough solidarity with Britain and the allies by calling its ambassador from Moscow for consultations in Sofia. The decision taken on Friday by the Security Council of the Council of Ministers is a rare manifestation of unanimity between the government, on the one hand, the President and BSP, on the other, which basically stand in the position of national interest. That's the story since then. Mr. Borisov, I am terribly surprised by your speech this morning, because I remember that conversation in 2018. In the morning, the hawks immediately chased, supported, and not a step back. We understand that you want to return to power through the pro-Atlantic majority you are talking about, but this is not pro-Atlanticism. It's just a desire to return to power. Your position today completely contradicts what we then resolved with reason and with coolness at the Conference of Presidents. I now appeal to you, honourable Members, we have lost two hours and 10 minutes in procedures. There are 50 minutes left until the decision of the Russian Federation to close its embassy in Bulgaria. I want to tell you where in the world this happened and see what list we're going to get on. Papua New Guinea Surinam, an embassy of Russia. Georgia and the last one in Ukraine because of the war. None of Russia's major political and global opponents, none of their ideological enemies have allowed themselves what is happening today in Bulgaria. Even in war. No country in the world today affords to break diplomatic relations and shut down its offices. We need to realise the consequences of the economic, political, social, cultural, whatever you want. Imagine that this happened today, and that they stopped the oil supply. We don't have fuel, we block the economy, the families, everything. Imagine stopping mutual cooperation with regard to the nuclear power plant. Do you think we could lose power? And don't tell me it's Russian or Putin's servant. This is the Bulgarian national interest, it is our will not to leave Bulgaria on the threshold of the winter in cold and dark, but the people on the hungry. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] I know that we're ideologically different, and I know that on the right hand side they'll say, well done, these are a little bit more. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I know on the left we'll say it's a mistake. Dear colleagues, it is not time for this dispute now, because the state is facing a real danger if we end our diplomatic relations with Russia. In particular, I would like to tell you that, apart from the great national interests, we are responsible for hundreds of people in Russia - Bulgarians in Russia. [[noise and lines]] I would like to say to you, perhaps you do not know the Ministry of Economy and Industry there is a Center of Industry of the Republic of Bulgaria in Moscow a huge thing, a huge property in which 112 contracts for the use of offices, warehouses and garages are currently in place and there are Bulgarian companies and Bulgarian goods. 112 contracts! They are concluded with 44 legal and 60 natural persons. We have 17 contracts to provide services to individuals. We have 26 people on employment contracts. This is only a private example because it is in my responsibility and I know it, and I follow it, and I am concerned what we will do with these people, what we will do with the Bulgarian companies. Did you know that there are three residential blocks where there are over 400 families living there? Three huge housing blocks! There are underage children there too. [[Noise and lines.]] If you are not interested in the major geopolitics, I ask you: what we do with these Bulgarians if the embassies close by 5:00 p.m. today. Do you have any thought of care besides procedural battles and so on? [[noise and lines]] Once again, obviously, I won't be understood, especially here. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u174	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u175	I call for composure, for reason and for decision-making. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm offering you this. It is obvious that the institutions, as I told you, have transferred their hot potato, unwilling to take responsibility and not having the courage to bear responsibility. I think it's most logical to do the following few things. First of all, Mr. Kiril Petkov should come out and say that he will not run for prime minister officially, not read any accounts on the websites. Secondly, before he does, immediately fire the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs who signed this note. Thirdly, the President should immediately fire the President of the State Agency for National Security, who has accepted verbally someone ordering him to draw up some lists. In Bulgaria there are rules and laws and it is said that when you are ordered to do something against the law, you have the right to refuse and have no responsibility. There was data on 34... excuse me for using the popular expression spies, and the others on the list were made by eye! This man must take responsibility for making those lists. The Prime Minister will say that he will not run, that the Deputy Minister will leave in a second, who has signed this note, the President will fire the head of the National Assembly and the National Assembly to assume its responsibility. My fellow Members, I suggest that you make a decision on this matter, and we are here the highest authority in the parliamentary republic, and I have read you what happened in 2018, when the case was much lighter. And with Borisov, with whom we are and were heavy enemies who... You are now in fact overflowing here with the DPS, rebirth, then it was a clear dividing line, we were heavy enemies and we remain policy opponents. Then we sat down and agreed that the expulsion of Russian diplomats in the case will harm Bulgaria. Don't you think you can do it now?! Don't you have that readiness? [[noise and lines]] The National Assembly shall adopt a decision as an authority exercising control over the executive power to adopt a decision to revoke that note................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Secondly, to make an accurate review of how many of these people have evidence that they are spies, and to present a note to them to leave, because anyone who spies to the detriment of the Bulgarian national interest must bear the consequences of international law. But all others who have been added to this list as a necessity to fill the Prime Minister's will to become 70, to be removed from this note. This will restore the rule of international and Bulgarian law. The Foreign Minister will issue this act, as it is under the Constitution, will comply with international law on evidence of espionage to extradite these people. We will restore justice to those who are not involved in espionage to remain here, and most of all, we will be able to overcome the huge gap we are moving towards. Not for Russophilism and Russophobicism, not for Euro-Atlanticism or Eurasianism, because of one thing only the Bulgarian national interest, the security, the stability of the country and the perspective of the Bulgarian people for the next difficult autumn and winter months. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Colleagues, I've missed the vote, after all, the procedural proposal I've made. [[SPEAKING SPANISH]] . I haven't announced control yet, but okay, anyway... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Okay, in the context of control, I'm making a procedural proposal, fellow Members, let's move on to a review of this. 3 and 4 of... [[Reply from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] We're in control, Mr. Gadget! [[Noise and lines.]] Wait, wait, wait! I'll give you an opportunity to be treated if we don't get into parliamentary control. It's the only way it can happen. [[Reply from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] You're saying we're in control now?! Are we in control or not, Mr. Gadget? [[Noise and lines.]] I put to the vote, my fellow Members, the procedural proposal I have made now to proceed with this. 3 and 4 on the agenda and then back to parliamentary control, which will continue until 2:00. [[Noise and lines.]] Third and fourth are, colleagues, the program has been updated. Please, voting mode. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, we're in voting mode. [[Noise and lines.]] I'll give you a chance to express your attitude afterwards. Vote 110 MPs: for 107, against 1, abstention 2. It's a re-vote. Mr. Gazhev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u177	Let me just tell you a few things, Mr. Chairman, about the revoting. Firstly, one procedure must be completed, which is: when a minister takes the floor on a item that is not on the agenda, the procedure first gives the attitude whether there will be other procedural issues such as votes and so on. Secondly, the Rules are very clear.. the last three hours of the plenary sitting on Friday are parliamentary control. I mean, whether you announced it or not, the Rules started it at 11:00 p.m., that's the Rules! That is, you are currently proposing a procedural solution during parliamentary control. It's not up to you to announce it. You can announce it at 1:00, but it usually starts at 11:00, or the last three hours of the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u178	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Take a look at the Rules of Procedure, it says: "Unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. " And the National Assembly decides otherwise. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, we're overreacting. 110 MPs voted: 107 against 3, no abstentions. That's how the offer is accepted. Now, colleagues, we're moving on to attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u179	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u180	Are you here for a procedure? Come in for a procedure before that. Mr. Marinov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to propose that we vote as a procedure to allow the Deputy Minister of Justice Emil Dechev to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u182	Mr. Marinov, what point exactly?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u183	Point three.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u184	For Penalty Point Three. Let me put it to the vote when we proceed to the relevant item on the agenda. Now we continue with attitude. Okay, actually, my fellow Members, I am putting to the vote the procedural proposal that this person be granted access to the time during which it is examined. 3 on the agenda. Please, voting mode. Vote 158 MPs: 111, against 43, abstention 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u185	It's a re-vote. Vote 158 MPs: 109, against 45, abstention 4. Please invite the person to the Chamber when we begin examining this item on the agenda. For expression of attitude by.. We continue the Change.................................................................................... [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please take your seats, yet the plenary session continues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! I'd like to make a few points. First of all, what happened to the note to the Russian Embassy is not a precedent. Only if we look a year back in time will we see that the Czech Republic is doing the same thing with 70 representatives of their embassy. [[Replys from ICN and GERB-SDS.]] I was very interested to hear the things that happened here at the National Assembly and at the Presidential Council a few years ago. In fact, here I am asking myself: if four years ago the right decisions were made, would we be here today? What must happen to understand in this country that the Bulgarian national interest must be defended independently of any foreign influences? It is clear to everyone that the situation of lack of reciprocity under the Vienna Convention is a state that we have for years, and none of the parliamentary represented forces, the government has moved its finger to do something to protect the Bulgarian interest. And perhaps, if they had, today the situation would have been radically different and we would not have to deal with this issue at a time when tensions between the two countries are already high, and not just between the two, but also in a larger geopolitical way. We've heard a lot of things here. We heard from the Revival and there is such a people that Kiril Petkov was dangerous to Bulgaria, probably referring to instructions from Mrs. Zaharova. What does all this mean? It means that Kiril Petkov is dangerous to Russian spies and their agents in Bulgaria. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u187	Why are you so pathetic?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u188	The question is: is that why the government of Kiril Petkov is resigned? [[Reply from IHN.]] Kiril Petkov had lied in front of everyone in the hall earlier today. [[Replys from ICN and GERB-SDS.]] He is very concerned about the Russian spies, who we all learned about here in this Chamber in closed session. Now we're hearing about a new version of the service. How did it happen in two days, who put pressure on them? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u189	The weather, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u190	Who pushed them to change their minds? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u191	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u192	Here we were told that there are reports, there are lists and information that the prime minister referred to and on which the foreign ministry based has taken these decisions. They were quoted. We call on the transcript from the closed session at least this part, which is possible, to have public access to it, to see that such lies that have been heard here today in the Chamber are untenable.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u193	The weather, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u194	Mr. Chairman, I'm graduating. I wonder what this reaction is to whether it is a reaction to the arrests of the European Prosecutor's Office. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS]] whose presence has already begun to bear fruit there are arrests. Is this hysteria a result of fear and horror that Bulgaria is starting to receive the full amounts of gas in the Azeri bond from today? What I want to finish with is that after so many years of dragging the ball, Bulgaria actually awakens, Bulgaria is released and the change continues. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u195	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. You have exceeded time more than twice, so I will be tolerant of other groups for expression of attitude. Mr. Yordanov wants the word for procedure, but, Mr. Yordanov, you have the right to be treated in a moment. You'll have four minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u196	It's about attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u197	Then you'll have a chance. Wait your turn to get to your group you will have four minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u198	How about a personal explanation and then an attitude?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u199	Was Mr. Yordanov mentioned in person? [[(Replys from ICN and GERB-SDS:]] Come in for a personal explanation, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Gurov, you were there last night and you know what was said. Making suggestions that we're guarding some Russian spies bordering on idiocy. You can sue me for those words if you want. Because you were there last night, the Foreign Office made it clear that they had proposed a procedure for reciprocal reduction of diplomats. That's another procedure. What the Czechs have done is a reciprocal reduction of 70 people per persona non grata and their discards. [[Reply from.. We continue the Change.]] Yeah, a month. Because of Kiril Petkov, his explicit insistence has passed the other procedure - not a reciprocal reduction, which lasts at least 30 days, but for the announcement of a persona non grata, there is a letter from Lena directly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u201	Mr. Yordanov, this is already like an expression of attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u202	Okay, but from here, he's suggesting that we're guarding Russian spies. On the contrary, the outside has stood, as we should be reduced. To address Mrs. Ninova, too, the head of the DANS is not for dismissal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u203	In a moment, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u204	Okay, I'll tell and explain why I know what he did there.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u205	He'll be able to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u206	He didn't offer 70 people as spies. There's a letter here at the Office. Go and see what Lena wrote, which procedure to remove these people who are also off the spy list! And you have the nerve to say that we're taking down the government under Russia's terms! [[(Replies from]] It's a serious idiot, Mr. Gurov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u207	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u208	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u209	Here you go, Mr. Abrovsky. I hope the procedure is with me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u210	Of course, Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. Please, when someone is in the process of suggesting that the European Prosecutor's Office has started arrests, it is hardly because this government manages to interrupt it, because these arrests are due to a process that has begun before anyone has the idea that we are continuing the Change is to be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u211	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. For an attitude by GERB-SDS Mr. Donchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u212	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Ninova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! By the way, I absolutely agree with the fact that Bulgaria is waking up. It's a fact. It's a fact we see with the naked eye. Mrs. Ninova, I am dramatically disagreed with much of the things you said, but first I would like to point out that you are honored to be here today in this Chamber. And unlike some of your colleagues who come here to drop the truth to us one way and then to leave, you have the courage to stay in the Chamber and hear what the MPs think about your position. That's what honors you. Another thing I fully agree with is your comment on political opposition and escalation of political passions. And I agree with him. Citizens send different representatives, including to parliament, and there we expect opposition to positions and disputes because everyone stands up for the interest of different layers of Bulgarian society. And that's normal, and that's part of politics. However, when this dispute becomes self-target and feud and does not make any sense, it is already harmful. Not to comment on the situation when it becomes a mutual victimization and self-generation. This is already quite bad and this does not make any sense. But what I don't understand is this strange quantum twist. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister of Prime Minister Petkov, member of the Council of Ministers, you at the Parliamentary Tribune express the reserve, disagree with the decision of the Council of Ministers, and address us. [[Replicates from the BSP for Bulgaria: "It has no solution of the Council of Ministers! "]] Mrs. Ninova, we are opposition. It is our job to find faults, faults with the actions of the Council of Ministers. You're addressing us. I have seen this in the years behind, because you have made a historical reference to both ruling and when it is not quite profitable for you to be a little opposition and a little ruling. We need to have a firm positioning of who is what, whether it is ruling or opposition. And in that sense, I'm asking you to define yourself. In fact, several times during your speech there was a hint that the decision made by Mr. Petkov is not only inappropriate that it is unlawful. I do not know whether the National Assembly is the authority to which you should complain if someone has committed unlawful acts. And no, Mrs. Ninova, whatever comments there are regarding the decision made, it must be defended! Any position back would humiliate Bulgaria, undermine its prestige among international institutions, especially on this topic! Especially on this subject! I will make a quote, and here I will amaze you, and I will quote my colleagues from the largest ruling party. When they are often asked why something is wrong today, see how it was 2020, 2019, 2018, what they answer, what is the difference: "Because there was no war then. " The difference between today and 2018 is that there was no war then! That's the big difference. And that requires another position! When there's a war, when there's an aggressor and a victim, you can't stay neutral. When there's a fire, the fire has to be extinguished. We can't let the processes develop naturally by themselves and see what happens. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Because usually the fire ends the same way! Finally, there are times when there is also a compromise in politics. There is a place, there are times when you have to compromise. However, there are times when, if you compromise, you become a big compromise. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u213	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u214	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! I appeal to you, Mr. President, because we are discussing a matter that is involved, because this is the word from the acting Prime Minister still in resignation, I ask you to call him to the Chamber, because he is the person who has made certain decisions, he has made this mess and he has to answer questions. And not Mrs. Ninova to come to convince us of the National Assembly, to once again have to take the government out of the mess that it has involved. Because this case, which we are discussing at the moment, is a small model of the way in which the state is managed for six months, now seven.. chaos, institutional disorder, the Prime Minister's sole decisions...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u215	Thank you, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u216	...disagreement with coalition partners.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u217	We understand the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u218	And once again, we will have to justify ourselves here in the National Assembly and discuss things that the Prime Minister has involved. So please, Mr. Chairman, call him here so he can start answering the relevant questions. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u219	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Mr. Enchev, will you be the only representative? You don't want to. Mr. Gutsanov from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u220	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! First of all, I congratulate you and Mr. Karadjov for being in the Chamber today and answering questions that other people had to find and be here today. In London there is a statue of Churchill in front of parliament, where at his bowing age, barely walking with a cane, he goes to parliament because parliament is the place that can make decisions when it is most necessary. Parliament is the place to say its word when the country has the greatest need and necessity. And yes, that is why today is precisely the National Assembly that we must make the responsible decisions. And there is no opposition, no ruling, honourable Members of the National Assembly! And it is very clear to all of us what the topic of yesterday is about how to protect the national security and the national interest of Bulgaria. And that is why today our parliamentary group will bring in what Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Nino spoke to the people's representation to cancel this note from the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Genchovska. Because it is the only possible solution to protect our national interest at the moment. I do not believe there is a MP, regardless of which side of the room sits, who is not aware of what should happen, how to protect our country's economy, how to protect Bulgarian families. And in the next place, it is one thing to talk about reciprocity, honourable colleagues, and another to talk about espionage. These are two different procedures. We therefore urge you to truly be at the height of the Bulgarian Parliament and to take this decision, which is best for the national security of our country and for the development of Bulgaria. This will support us from the BSP. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u221	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There is a relationship with the Deputy Prime Minister here, but unfortunately, we are heading towards a direction that is already about to bring down the entire country. Do you hear what you're suggesting? And that's for you. [[People's Representative Toma Bikov addressed President Miroslav Ivanov]] If you can stop it, because obviously here the disintegration that is happening is about to break up the state. Try and make an effort. The National Assembly must oblige the Foreign Minister to cancel a note?! It's a seizure of...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u223	Mr. Bikov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u224	...the authority from another power, it's unconstitutional! We've come to this chaos because you've run over the Constitution and the laws for seven months.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u225	Mr. Bikov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u226	You want the National Assembly to run over the Constitution now because your government is doing stupid things. You, Mrs. Ninova, where were you seven months to find out...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u227	Mr. Bikov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u228	...that man who's not here... [[The National Representative Toma Bikov is going to the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u229	Mr. Bikov, please calm down! Mr. Bikov! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Please, the Quaestors. Mr. Bikov, please calm down and take your place! Mr. Svilensky, come in. Colleagues, please calm down in the hall. Mr. Bikov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's the way it's supposed to be. Mr. Bikov, you are right that in a normal situation, a calm situation, the government must do its job, parliament must adopt laws, Bulgarian citizens must be satisfied with these laws, the government. The fact is that we are in a situation where in 15 minutes the embassies will be closed, that is a fact. However, the fact is that many times Mr. Borisov has come here to the plenary asking the Bulgarian Parliament to make a decision. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] To instruct him to make a decision on refugees, for example, I remember, and the Bulgarian Parliament has made such decisions in which it entrusts the Bulgarian government because it seeks support. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Because here we are all representatives of Bulgarian society. Yes, it's the easiest thing for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to do on his own. It's even easier for the Prime Minister to do it himself. When 15 minutes before that thing happened, no one did, well, we have to do it ourselves. Now, if we don't want to do this, that's another question. But we at BSP offer you option three, fourth, last maybe because there are 15 minutes to state our will and position.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u231	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u232	Whether the Minister will do it, whether the Prime Minister will do it, whether he will fulfill the decision...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u233	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u234	We as MPs must show the will and responsibility to the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u235	I'll give Mr. Mitov his word. Colleagues, I suggest we get back to the attitude. Mr. Mitov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u236	Dear Mr. Chairman, thank you. Colleagues, if there is anyone who has to ask the National Assembly for something, it is the Prime Minister in resignation. It is not for Mrs Ninova to come here to appeal to the National Assembly once again, as did Macedonia, as many other cases once again have to bring out the state, because this is not about the government. This is about the dignity of the Bulgarian state which has committed some kind of act and this act must be supported or something else, but this decision must be taken by the government. And the one who has to ask the parliament for something, as was just said by Mr. Svilensky, is the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u237	The Deputy Prime Minister wants it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u238	But the deputy prime minister is deputy prime minister, this government has a prime minister, even though he's resigned, he should be here. So, Mr. Chairman, please call him as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u239	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Colleagues, you two formations can gather to discuss this issue and... [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. Deputy Prime Minister Cornelia Ninova wants the floor.]] Ms. Ninova, we are in a procedure regarding your speech, how can I give you the floor again? It's not admissible, because it's going to look like a line to an attitude that's already been made, I can't give you the floor. Mr. Yordanov for the attitude of the "There is such a people."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u240	Mrs. Ninova, to your statement. I know I'll do it again. When you get on it, at least you're honored to be here in this parliament and say what you think and don't hide. It's a fact. From then on, we from the Political Party have such a people and we support the decision of the Foreign Embassy to reduce the staff of the Russian Embassy reciprocally, so that as many Bulgarian diplomats there are in Moscow as there are here. The problem comes from the Prime Minister, who single-handedly ordered him to make a list of these people and made the DANS. And the DANS are not for dismissal, the head of the DANS, because he most rightly gave a list indicating who are engaged in illegal activity, i.e. on the topic of Spionage and another list, which was further requested by the Prime Minister to become his number. And inside he didn't indicate they were spies. And then they're being chased like spies. Why? Because the Foreign Office asks what to do with the Prime Minister and Lena Borislavova with two letters sends instructions on which procedure to remove them. And that's why they're taking them off like a persona non grata. That's the problem. Not to mention the suggestion that the Russian parties are taking him down, which the person who is their chairman of the parliamentary group has allowed himself to speak out of this tribune absolutely, just like that, in their Alangro way, without evidence and a disgusting, disgusting statement on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u241	Mr. Yordanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u242	Punish me all you want. As long as they're telling lies...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u243	Everyone has a right to an opinion in the situation, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Gurov expressed his voice, you express yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u244	My opinion is that what you said is vile and disgusting, and that's what I think.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u245	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u246	So Mrs. Ninova, we are not convinced that downloading the notes will not be humiliating for the country. The truth is that at the moment you and we are wondering what to do, because the Prime Minister has done a terrible stupidity, not acting out, including with the Council of Ministers, because you have not decided this at the Council of Ministers. And you know, it's a one-man solution and pressure to get here. And he's got to make some kind of decision in this situation, so the Foreign Office can't go and say, "We're pulling the note." It would be a violation of the law. Neither the Foreign Office has decided to chase them like a persona non grata alone, nor can it do anything else right now. He must receive instructions from the Council of Ministers. And the one who has to make that decision, I have no idea where he is! And we're in an extremely freaking situation here to wonder what to do, and we're all actually responsible for this guy being elected prime minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u247	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u248	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Ninova! I react to what you have proposed, and I must say that we do not agree with your proposal from the following point of view. In fact, you propose that we respond to the ultimative demands of the Russian side. We believe that this thing will be extremely harmful to Bulgaria. Whatever you're thinking about the decision that's been made. The idea that we should accept this ultimatative tone with which Mrs. Mitrofanova tries to force Bulgaria to change its decision, as well as to think that this decision has been made will only create an even bigger problem from our point of view. Because we have come to this situation with too long a clear or vague capitulantism in relations with Russia. Accepting the fact that Bulgaria should in many different ways be in an unfair relationship with the Russian Federation, which over many years perceives an escalating, aggressive position - uses economic energy interests, various means of influence, hybrid war to impose its will on what it is trying to state as its perimeter of influence in which Bulgaria is involved. This is a fundamental problem, many years old, in the relations between Bulgaria and the Russian Federation. This problem escalates especially after Russian aggression in Ukraine. And the fact is that the series of governments in recent years, not only that, have started trying to address this problem, and the series of institutions. It is also a fact that, especially after the beginning of the war, against the backdrop of the long-standing approach to Russia, we had to address the problem purely quantitatively to the fact that relations between Bulgaria and the Russian Federation do not require such a massive presence. This in itself is a risk factor because this type of decision.. and here let me correct something that you said, this type of decision is not based on evidence of someone's guilt. You're talking about the presumption of innocence, this is not about a criminal trial, someone's conviction and so on. We are talking here about solutions that are extremely politically appropriate. Each State of the Vienna Convention unilaterally, without giving explanations, justifications and evidence, is a matter of internal process, can assess whether the presence, both of specific persons engaged in a particular activity, or of a certain number of diplomats, for which certain presumptions are made, that some of them are probably engaged in dual activities, is and poses a certain risk to its security in the context of relations, and especially when they change as dramatically as they are after the beginning of such an aggressive war on the part of the Russian Federation. And he doesn't have to prove that. These decisions are, by the way, made by the Prime Minister alone. They've always been like this before. We can believe that they have been taken properly, incorrectly, justified, but this is our internal issue. This question, if we are now using it to capitulate to the ultimatum that Mitrofanova is trying to impose on us, we will in fact further aggravate the situation of inequality from which Mitrofanova proceeds in all its activities in Bulgaria. That's why I want to say two things. We cannot give in to this decision and this is a matter of national interest. This decision must be supported and we must use it from now on as a message to the Russian Federation. If from now on they want to develop relations with Bulgaria, they are welcome, but this should be done exclusively on an equal footing. This is the only way forward that we have and that we see. Thank you. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u249	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. From rebirth to attitude? [[The National Representative Rumen Gechev wants the floor.]] Professor Gechev, for...? You've expressed your attitude already, your group. [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]] No, no, Mr. Gechev, a replica of attitude, please. No, no, I'll take your word for it. I'm gonna take your word for it, it's not right for you to take what Mr. Ivanov said.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u250	Procedure in the manner of conduct. I'll just say two sentences.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u251	Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u252	Mr. Chairman, of course, it would be best, as we say, to keep quiet, to see what happens. It doesn't allow me the experience I have, like other colleagues, not to say two words here. Firstly, I understand the concerns, there is nothing humiliating about calling both sides to sit down and the diplomats to resolve the issue, because the Russian side has reason to object because the decision-making mechanism, we all agree that it is inadequate to the Constitution and the laws of Bulgaria first. Secondly, no one commented on the fact that the Bulgarian specialized institutions have found that someone is working against the interests of the state Bulgaria, our country, here is not at all commented on the expulsion according to all the rules of the Vienna Conventions. However, honourable Members, the economic consequences can be extremely severe and therefore we should not succumb to emotions, extremely severe, not to say, can be when the submission of energy carriers is stopped catastrophic for the Bulgarian people. And since we institutionally appear to have violated the decision-making procedures and made two decisions in one procedure that had nothing to do with it, there is nothing humiliating. Let the two countries take a step back from both Russia and Bulgaria. To vote on this decision and to oblige our diplomacy, Russia's diplomacy to sit at the negotiating table and to resolve the issue in the interests of both sides, and especially in the interests of the Bulgarian people. That's why we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u253	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. It wasn't two sentences, but... Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u254	Mr. Chairman, we are having a debate on a decision which has not yet been tabled, but because BSP colleagues want to catch the ultimatum and the period given to us by Mrs. Mitrofanova, I am treating this with some understanding. Mr. Gechev, first of all, you are not calling anything on both sides, you are urging Bulgaria to surrender to this ultimatum. Secondly, we need to understand that how this decision was taken is an extremely, extremely internal issue of Bulgaria. Mitrofanova has absolutely no bearing on this issue. There is neither interest nor opportunity to comment on this thing. That's our sovereign question. That we choose now, at this point, to extract the offal of this decision, I yesterday, while sitting and listening to this thing, remembered that phrase that you don't want to see how political decisions are made and how sausages are made, right? We now opened this sausage and started pulling out some pieces of it and scaring people. By the way, my call to you is don't scare people, don't talk about NPP, don't talk about energy, because these are contracts. These contracts are commercial. If you claim that the Russian Federation will use these treaties to put pressure on Bulgaria for one or another sovereign solution, you are in fact putting your finger in the problem of the Russian Federation using all the elements of its relations, commercial, economic and so on, to establish its dominance in our territory. [[the President signals that time has run out]] That is precisely what we must react to, and that is why this decision cannot be annulled. [[(Applause from the..Democratic Bulgaria...........................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u255	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Kostadinov, you have the floor. You have your two minutes, which will be a little more than two.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u256	Mr. President, I believe that we have witnessed here today, at the worthy finale of the work of this National Assembly, because, if any obituary of this Parliament could be read, I think it was read today, including it was loud and juicy by one swearing member of the ruling party. I believe that we do not need to go into details because here, when commenting on each of the speakers, when commenting on the members of the Council of Ministers present here, was actually commenting on something completely different, nothing to do with them. We saw an election campaign started. This is where we start talking, not to the people who are here, but to the voters. It is absolutely unnecessary to comment on any ultimatum anymore because the ultimatum is over. And for everyone, including the blind, it is clear that within this week until the day after tomorrow, both the Russian Embassy and consulates in Varna and in Ruse and the Bulgarian Embassy in Moscow and our consulates in St. Petersburg will be closed. To point out that in Ekaterinburg we closed it ourselves anyway. We believe that the only thing that can happen from now on, if we want to have a normalization in Bulgarian society, is for this parliament to live peacefully and quietly the next few days, weeks maximum, to go to new elections. Bulgaria needs comfort, normalization. Bulgaria needs to overcome the division that already threatens us with very serious faults within society itself. The government and its policy, especially in the last few weeks, have caused a series of such faulty clashes that brought Bulgarians across the street, something that had not happened since 1996 during the protests against the government of Jean Videnov. The decision, which was made and which caused absolutely the expected and absolutely unsurprising Russian reaction to anyone, is put on the map and the fate of many important industries for the future of Bulgaria. There's no point in commenting on them. Yesterday at the Conference of Presidents, we were clearly told what the threats were and they were articulated, by the way, and it is quite normal when we take hostile action, we will also expect hostile counter-actions. The big question is is is is is there anyone in this Parliament who can now, at the moment, take responsibility for the normalization of relations with not only Russia, but at all, if you will even with Ukraine. At present, this Parliament cannot broadcast such a majority. That is why I very much hope that this blitzcontrol today was the last in the history of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. The only thing that Bulgarian citizens expect from now on is as quickly as possible disbanding, new elections, normalization, calming and overcoming all negative effects caused by inadequate, criminal, traitorous, incompetent management actions and inactions of the current government. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u257	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Guys, I'm gonna give you 15 minutes off. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Miteva. And then, colleagues, take a break until 12.20.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u258	Only one procedure is in a hurry in relation to parliamentary control, as we voted to include two new points, but the meeting remained until 2:00. Please, Mr President, specify, when the two points are completed, that the meeting continue until the end and end of the control so that the Members can be answered and that the relevant ministers, who are involved in the control, may participate so as not to violate the rights of the Members of the National Assembly. That's how we've always done it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u259	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Yeah, I think we'll settle this after the break. Thank you. Let's have it after the break, coworkers by 12.20. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u260	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX, THE IMPORTER IS THE MINISTER'S COUNCIL. There has been a report from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Who's gonna introduce us to the report? Mr. Mateev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u261	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. On 18 March 2022 the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, No 47 202 01 14, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 18 March 2022, adopted on the first vote on 12 May 2022. The Criminal Code is amended and supplemented by the Criminal Code. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law. Under § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Petar Petrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 155b The following amendments 1. In para. 1 the words "take part or take part" shall be deleted and the word "five" shall be replaced by "six." 2. A new para is being created. 2: supposed to participate in actual, virtual or simulated sexual relations between persons of the same or different sex or lustful display of human sex organs, sodomy, masturbation, sexual sadism or masochism shall be punished by imprisonment of two to eight years. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it the words two to ten shall be replaced by three to ten. Under § 2, there is a proposal of the MP Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Petar Petrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 155c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it the words "take part in" shall be replaced by "supervise," the words "six" and "six" shall be replaced by "six" and the word "five" shall be replaced by "six." 2. The creation of para. 2: 2 Who, through the use of force or intimidation, or through the use of a situation of dependence or supervision, induces a minor to participate in actual, virtual or simulated fornication, mating, sexual intercourse, including sodomy, masturbation, sexual sadism or masochism, as well as for a lustful display of human sexual organs, shall be punished by imprisonment of two to eight years. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 173 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1 the word "two" is replaced by "three" is replaced by "three." 2. The creation of para. 3: . (3) When the act under para. 1 was committed on the Internet or caused significant harmful consequences, the punishment is imprisonment up to six years and fine up to ten thousand levs. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. 'Concluding provision'. A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the division be amended as follows: A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Unfinished until the entry into force of this law proceedings under art. 155b, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 155c. 159, para. Art. 3, Art. 172a, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 172b, para. Art. 1, art. 319a, para. 1, 2, 3 and 4, Art. 319b, para. 1, 2, 3 and 4, Art. 319c, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 319d, para. Art. 1, 2 and 3, Art. 319d, para. Art. 1, 2 and 3 and art. 319 is finished in the current order. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u262	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Ganev, you have the floor. Here you go. [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev.]] Hey, guys, are there any people who want to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u263	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to address this as a matter of fact the first reading of amendment and addition to the Criminal Code, as to how much and what is the idea that the importers actually put in, both of them, because, in general, what the colleagues of AGE are proposing, and what they propose by the Council of Ministers, is aimed at a single correction in these three groups of crimes, which are listed in paragraphs 1 to 11, namely for these types of crimes, the majority of which represent computer ones, is proposed to increase criminal liability. The difference between the two proposals is, in fact, between the Association and the Council of Ministers, that some enforcement actions are added further to certain texts, especially in the order of 155 and 155b and c, as the basic idea of what I understand from the reasons which are set out in the Bill is that there is a higher degree of public danger to these acts and these acts deserve more severe punishment. I will do the reverse thesis because the practice so far shows that only lifting the penalties does not result in this result, which is actually embedded in the Penal Code itself, because the purposes of the Penal Code, which is listed in art. 36 of its general provisions, which are valid for the entire Criminal Code, are to correct and re-educate. This can be said by any law student in a third year who has taken the common part of the Criminal Code.... that is actually the purpose of criminal prevention. The excessive lifting of penalties, firstly, violates the general principle of appropriateness and justification of criminal prevention. Because for us to do it for 20 years, this will hardly lead to the realization of these goals, which are listed in art. 36 of the penal code. On the contrary, in para. 2 of the same text explicitly states that the purpose of the punishment is not to suppress, it is not to cause any unnecessary physical or mental trauma to the person who is subject to criminal liability, but to refer us back to para. 1 of art. 36, that is, the purpose of criminal prevention is to repair and re-educate. And in this regard, I will tell you that in the years, especially in recent years, there have been many crimes that were up to three years old, say, imprisonment, such as driving after drinking. And what happened? It happened so that we made the lower limit a year, we made it 1.. 3 years or 1. 5 years, and we actually filled the criminal proceedings with such senseless cases. They have neither decreased nor the prevention has been carried out, nor have the drivers who drive motor vehicles decreased. So the goal is not only to raise penalties and thus to seek some kind of re-educational effect, but we should also bear in mind something that is very important, but that is actually how penalties are defined. Because if you look carefully at the provisions of art. 54 and the following of the Penal Code, you will see that it is in fact the court that has the opportunity to reduce both in the event of extenuating circumstances the punishment to be imposed on a particular criminal responsible person, and to increase it, even in the order of art. 24 These penalties are allowed to be increased to one second by the maximum provided for in the relevant penal text. So the self-image of penal liability in order not to be conditional or to have no other convictions, because imprisonment is one of the penal preludes that envisions the law, but there are other criminal.... and a fine allows the law, allows re-educative measures with impact and so on and so forth will not result in this effect, which is actually intended in this text. I therefore believe that, in this case and for these crimes, this lifting of these penalties will not result in the effect that the importers themselves actually want. And I personally will not support it, not because I am against the penalties that concern both sexual integrity and computer crimes, and hacking attacks, because they are, unfortunately, frequent cases in recent years, because we have all passed on computers, but because we have to allow within those limits that are defined, and they are not small penalties that are at the present time, to give the court, the real court, the one who can assess both the public danger of the act and the children, from there to find a normal punishment that is intended to correct and re-initiate the person. Apart from that, there are great inaccuracies in this law. Maybe between first and second readings, I'd say those things. But, for example, in art. 155b, when the importer Mr. Kostadinov makes a request in his second part and if he is inclined to participate in the action, this is unacceptable because for this type of crime there are other penalties which are listed in art. 150, 151 and 152 of the Penal Code, and there is no way that something that is listed as a mating with a person not over 14 years of age can be transferred to this text of the Penal Code. The same is the proposal in the order of art. 155, letter "in'. So the problem of computer crimes specifically, and by the way, those who want could, and we could ask for one such reference to see that the persons who are convicted, that is, established such computer crimes, whose penalties we want to be lifted, is almost zero. And it's zero, not because the punishment is small, but because it's just a difficult mechanism for its establishment. And here we need to direct our efforts to make sure that these computer crimes, the one who does them, can be identified and from now on he bears his criminal responsibility. Because in this way, with these false profiles that register randomly, here we have to find the right text, if we have to create a new one to enable the authors of these crimes to be identified, and only after their establishment, because, according to my data, the convicted persons for such crimes are zero. Finally, I would only like to take into account the proposals made by fellow Member Krum Zarkov on the fact that these crimes, the entry into force of this law, must be completed in the current order. This is unnecessary, colleague Zarkov, because there is a general principle that is respected in criminal proceedings, that the person is responsible for the act under this law, which is more favourable to him at the time of his execution or at the time of his application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u264	Thank you, Mr. Balachev, for the extensive exhibition. Hey, guys, any lines? Mr. Ganev, are you for a line? Here's a line, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u265	Mr. Balachev, you and I have been politically different positions for many years, for many years, it is clear that only in this case we have a really nice match for those of the views on the specific bill. Frankly, it is not a problem for me to stand at this point and say that what you are doing and those you are defending not only here, but also in the Commission on this bill are correct because they are beneficial to our society as a whole. We have tabled our legislative changes to this bill, we have made our proposals. You were one of the people who stood by them. Again, it does you honor and I am glad that this happened because there are topics on which we should have unity. This is one of the topics, this is a topic that affects our children, affects our morality as a society, and I don't think there should be a division in topics like this. On the contrary, I think that exactly in such subjects we should stand together, no matter who of which political party is, what views there are for economics or anything else. After all, every society, including ours, is based on morality and values. Without morals and values, we become a flock and something that cannot be called either a nation or a country. We Bulgarians have shown all the centuries in which we exist as a state that morality and values have strengthened us. It was because of what happened to this bill that it had its shortcomings. For these shortcomings during the several committees that were held, I also attended them, I also spoke to these committees about the changes that we thought should be made, we introduced them in due order. I am pleased that, on this path that we have been walking together on this bill, we have had one objective and one direction precisely because of the morality and values that we believe should also be applied in legislation. That's why I think there are more things you may not have had the time to say. I would ask you to elaborate on what you just said, so that lawyer Petrov can then say about our position on the entire bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u266	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Second line, Mr. Cholakov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u267	Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Balachev, I just wanted to say that I also join your position because it is legal and human right. I prefer, colleagues, in cases where we are discussing such purely legal cases, to deal with foreign European legislation to see how the more developed countries have solved one problem or another. And indeed, it is a fact, colleagues, that we have some very enhanced understanding or what to call it for criminal policy, that the more severe punishments are, the more pò we prevent crimes, and that is not true. I just wanted to point out to you, Mr. Balachev, that in the German law on measures where they are arranged to say the crimes that we are currently settling or further developing in art. 173, the prescribed penalty is up to 1 year in prison and a monetary fine without defining the amount of the monetary fine. I'm thinking about whether that's the best solution in our future practice as well. Prison from one year up becomes a bit problematic, but the monetary penalty will be 5,000 or 20,000. lv. This is not enough for the court to sanction, the amount of the crime committed, if, for example, the crime has caused millions of damages, a fine of 20 thousand will not compensate anything, including from the point of view of the state. That is, we are increasing the size of the prison, but we are not giving the court the opportunity to impose such a monetary penalty that really compensates in any way for the damage that has been done by committing the relevant crime. I am simply telling you this as an idea in the next discussion that perhaps our penal policy should develop in this direction in which we have already walked and come to certain decisions Western legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u268	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Is there a third line, colleagues? I won't. Mr. Balachev, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u269	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'll start with what my colleague Ganev said. We are a legislative body and we need to make it very clear here how far the party's interest is and where the common interest of all citizens starts from. I fully agree that when we make laws, we should do them not for individual reasons, not for individual influences or currents in some of the parliamentary groups, but for all citizens. If you look at our laws, one legal order, you will see that they have been amended and supplemented, in just 10 years they have been supplemented more than 20 times. This is a shame for the Bulgarian legislative system and we should not allow that. We need to make sure that the laws that go out with our voices are really laws for everyone, reflect public attitudes and accordingly offer the corresponding sanction. I said my attitude about sanctions. The excessive penalty from the long experience I have, I must tell you that three-quarters of the people who, unfortunately, have remained in prison, come out of there not re-educated, but come out bigger and more hardened criminals. That is to say, the main goal that the legislation has to reinvigorate them is not particularly when they are younger people, for whom the environment is just fertilizer for them and they grow into a variety of criminal schemes, habits, ideas, whatever you want. So when we're sending someone to jail, we need to be very careful whether we give them a chance or not. Colleague Cholakov, you're absolutely right. By the way, for several years, perhaps 10 years, in Bulgarian justice and among the colleagues we practice, both judges and prosecutors, and lawyers, there is a conviction that the penal code is full of texts that have been turned into a crime that clog the judiciary on their part, and we raise too much bar for things that do not really have this public danger to be criminalized in the real sense of the word. This is one of the cases in which we could, one part of these all chapters of the Penal Code, lead them out of there to make them administrative violations. First they will pass faster, the punishment will come faster and will have a greater effect on a large fine than, for example, a year on probation with three years on probation. Here is something on which the Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs could make an appointment to the Prosecutor's Office, to a court and to a lawyer's office, to do an analysis and to propose a proposal, and I think there are at least 100 texts in the Criminal Code. I say again: let's leave the court, let's give it a chance, because, by making a lower limit, for example, from one year in prison, he cannot, if he has felt that there are numerous mitigating circumstances, give him a punishment other than imprisonment, and make it, for example, probation, say, which is another punishment, there are other deadlines, another is the nature of this probation of this punishment and so on. Let's give the court a chance at some well-defined boundaries. It is desirable without one, it is based on the way in which, art. 54, the punishment is determined, to determine a fair punishment. I think this will bring more up than if we impose undue imprisonment without a reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u270	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u271	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The theme of sanctions in the Penal Code is extremely important, unfortunately, and painful for the Bulgarian society, painful for many reasons, which are complex. When we made the proposals between the first and second votes in art. 155b of the Criminal Code, I have held talks with district prosecutors, representatives of the Directorate General, National Police and all police officers, as well as representatives of DGBOC, Section Cybercrime, that these sanctions should be increased. Deprivation of liberty to be increased as a term, because it occurs so that specifically with regard to the solicitation of pedophilia, the people receive one conditional sentence and this allows them to carry out the same crimes over and over again in the century of technology. We also met a lot of case law on the application of art. 155b of the Penal Code and there it was found that almost never these two crimes. The solicitation of pedophilia is not carried out alone and is not committed as a single crime. They are always combined with other crimes from the Section with similar claims against the Bulgarian children or several subsequent acts have been carried out on a regular basis in the conditions of a continuing crime. In these cases, unfortunately, due to the low size so far, they do not receive adequate sanction, adequate punishment and a relapse occurs, which is also a very large part of the case-law. The opinion of all institutions investigating this kind of crime that their perpetrators should be separated from society. How do we do that? It can be done by increasing the penalty to allow an effective punishment. That is why we have submitted these two proposals to the Penal Code, and of course we have tried to approach differentiatedly, namely: to give a more severe punishment to the serious cases involving sexual contact, sexual intercourse and sexual intercourse with persons under the age of 18 in the corresponding two subparagraphs. We believe that it is these more severe cases, first of all, are extremely strongly proven in the century of modern technology, that is, it cannot be a set-up or some kind of deception or fake. Next, it is precisely because of the categoricity of this proving these particularly severe cases that should lead to a more severe punishment. In this regard, I am pleased that the Bulgarian Parliament between the first and second votes with the work that has been carried out in relation to, cashtaking, these proposals, the creation of a working group, the making of discussions, the calling of many organisations that are empathetic to this problem, representatives of state institutions, the comprehensive discussion that has been held, and the unanimous decision in the Legal Committee, which was taken, I believe that this has shown one of the good things that could be done for the Bulgarian children The forty-seventh National Assembly, namely to increase sanctions for those who are prone to pedophilia. The criminal policy of the Republic of Bulgaria can be achieved in consensus with all political groups in the interests of Bulgarian children. In a fight against this kind of crime, which turns out to be, first of all, extremely disgraceful, and second of all, they exist, they are present, they are carried out and investigated, they should also receive adequate punishment to pursue one of the objectives under art. 36 of the Penal Code, namely the preventive and educational and warning effect in society of a penalty for imprisonment. Section "Cloud" needs further changes the amount of sanctions, the investigation of this type of crime. We believe that whether in this Parliament or in the next Parliament, they will be carried out and we will make the relevant changes, including in the accompanying laws............................................................................................ 37 of the Ministry of Interior Act, where there is a need for me to be able to investigate these crimes when they are related to the use of software and computer systems, because many of the pedophiles currently use computer technologies, telephone systems and so on it should be possible for the Directorate General for Organized Crime to be able to investigate this type of crime when pre-trial proceedings are initiated by the prosecution. We will make the relevant legislative proposals and hope that they will be adopted again in such a consensus and that a better effective criminal policy by the state will be achieved with regard to this type of crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u272	And thank you, Mr. Petrov. Hey, guys, any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to the honourable Members on a very important motive for these amendments to the Criminal Code, namely increasing the amount of punishment for the various crimes, especially those that are computer. This is not the question of the individualisation and the determination of the court's punishment for the specific case, but it is more important to allow the operational services in the Ministry of Interior, which deal with the detection of these crimes, to be able to apply special intelligence resources. You know that under the Special Intelligence Act, in order to be able to request and, accordingly, to authorise the application of special intelligence means, the crime must be severe, i.e. the penalty for it to be 5 years in prison. Otherwise, no special means of intelligence can be applied for crimes punishable by imprisonment for up to 5 years. This type of crime is particularly carried out in computer networks and so on, very difficult to disclose without the use of special intelligence resources. This is one of the main objectives, by the way, strangely why this bill did not pass through the Internal Commission, but it does not matter at all, because that is where this motivation should be discussed. However, I would simply like to draw attention to the fact that if we are to assist the authorities in the detection and investigation of these crimes, we must support these amendments in order to be able to give an additional means in the hands of the operational services, respectively, to the prosecution for the detection and investigation of these crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr President of the Internal Commission, I will take this part of your statement that the Bill was not addressed to the Internal Commission, but should have, because what was supposed to be expressed as an official position in the Internal Commission by the Cybercrime Department at the General Directorate of Organized Crime is that we received it as private talks because, in my opinion, the Parliament's management was not assigned to this committee, but I believe that we had something to hear, because what they shared the management there is that they are preparing a rather extensive report in the initial examination of the existence of such a crime related to pedophiles and the use of cybers, and when they present it to the prosecutor, they say: the whole large volume report we cannot investigate it, because it is given to another office, although it has been committed huge actions. Keep in mind that the Directorate General for Organized Crime still has, although it is very small, with quite good methods and tools to investigate such crimes, so I personally believe that this bill should also be passed through the Commission for the Ministry of Interior, where I think we could hear a lot more ideas on how to better investigate these crimes. But we'll respect what's been done so far. I just want to say that a consensus has been reached between all the parliamentary groups on this thing. I see colleague Slavov, I see colleague Popov, I see colleague Zarkov, who supported the increase in sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u275	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Balachev, for the second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u276	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleague Atanasov. My line to you is this, if the idea of this bill is to cross the border for five years so that we can use the SRS, I think the approach is incorrect, and I will tell you why. I said in my speech that these texts are almost dead. Unfortunately, there is almost no convicted person either for hacking or downloading data and so on, although there are texts when defending themselves now, are damaged state interests, it exceeds five years and there could be used the SRS, but I am for use because these are hard to solve crimes. But I think it would be more right for you and I to amend and supplement the Special Intelligence Act, where we will allow in certain cases to enjoy the SRS, even though it is not a serious crime, which we lawyers understand should be more than five years in prison, and thus, first of all, we will not harm criminal policy, and secondly, we will open the page and allow specifically for computer crimes to use this method, and there are several, but each one of them, in order to be able to solve these, because these are generally difficult crimes. So what do you think about changing this special law instead of turning the whole law back?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u277	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. For a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u278	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u279	Mr. Gutsanov, let's finish the procedure here. Is there another line, colleagues? I won't. For the doppelganger, Mr. Atanasov. Please, you have the floor. And then to you for a procedure, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Balachev, I agree with you. Yes, it is, and there are other problems that require a review of the Special Intelligence Act at all. Now I don't want to develop certain hypotheses here, but you're right. This serious tool for detecting various types of crimes, such as special intelligence means, should be allowed to be used especially for computer, because what vowel evidence you can collect there, right, to prove it. I agree to seek unification and support for changing the wording in the Special Intelligence Means Act in the sense of allowing special intelligence means to be sought and accordingly applied to crimes that are not severe but to be explicitly indicated and to which species, depending on their specifics. But now, on this bill, we have this as a proposal, and I believe that it should be supported at this stage in order to enable the use of these funds and, otherwise, to seek a subsequent legislative change. Of course, I agree with you and I didn't want to develop here or develop your thesis. It is very important, in the end, we know what the maxim is, what is important is to punish a crime, not to impose any major sanctions, and not to apply them and not to go there. But the important thing is to give tools in the hands of the services and institutions involved in solving crimes. This is why I think we should support these texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u281	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Gutsanov, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, every law is important, the criminal has his own weight.. There are no two opinions on the issue, but at the moment what excites the society in Bulgaria is radically different from what we do in the last 45 minutes, so we have submitted to the National Assembly a draft decision on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 84, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Draft decision of the National Assembly concerning the declaration of 70 diplomats and officials of the Russian Federation as persona non grata. Dear Mr. President, we are simply asking you to make this part of the National Assembly's agenda, which depends solely on you. We do not believe that there is anything more important at the moment in our country than this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u283	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Are there any other statements on this bill that we are currently discussing? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion and we're going to vote. Colleagues, I think I'd like to propose that we vote on all the texts. Okay, guys, there's no objection to this proposal, so I'm putting it to the vote... Actually, let's just call the coworkers. I'll wait a few seconds for the coworkers to come back to the gym. Colleagues, I'm gonna wait a few more seconds, still colleagues are coming into the room so they can vote. Colleagues, I will put to the vote the name of the bill, which is by importer: paragraphs 1 and 2, which are in the version of the Commission; paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, which are by importer; § 6 which is in the version of the Commission; paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13, which are by importer; the name of the division which is in the version of the Commission; the proposal for a new § 14 and § 14 by importer which becomes § 15. 100 MPs voted: 99, against 1, no abstentions. With this, the proposals were adopted and the bill at second reading. We thank the Deputy Minister for his participation today. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda, namely: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON MEASURES AND ACTIONS ON THE TIME OF THE EXECUTIVE POSITION NOTIFICED BY THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING OF 13 MARCH 2020 AND FOR THE REFUNDING OF THE SUCCESSIONS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u284	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u285	Let me finish, Mr. Gutsanov, and I'll give you the floor. There has been a report from the Health Commission. And before we proceed to the Report, Mr. Gutsanov, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, just three minutes ago we asked the question, say yes or no, will you turn it on, or will you not turn it on? But at the very least, it's not normal to sit around like this and not know what to do. Everyone outside is waiting for any opinion of the National Assembly, or we will continue to walk on some life of our own, fundamentally different from what the public cares about. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u287	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. If you think that within three minutes I can take this issue seriously, it is not serious. [[Noise and lines.]] You yourself said he was serious enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u288	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u289	About the report, Mrs. Sacheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u290	For procedure before the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u291	Procedure? Here you are, Mrs. Sacheva, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, from today on, thousands of people with disabilities are left without valid documents. The problem is that since the beginning of the 2020 pandemic, the period of extension of the decisions of TELK and NELK has been constantly increasing for the time of the emergency situation and the emergency epidemic situation. They were extended once to three months after the cancellation of the emergency situation, but so with the last extension of these expertises practically ended yesterday. According to our data, we're talking more than 11,000. Souls...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u293	Mrs. Sacheva, I'm sorry to interrupt. This is a statement on the substance, I ask you for the procedure, and in the context of the discussion you will be able to make a full statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u294	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u295	I apologize one more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u296	It's 11,000. Souls. We submitted our bill on May 18th, which, however, has not been dealt with in the relevant committees for almost a month. It was considered for the first time only on 23 June. On June 10th, we are continuing the Change with Associate Professor Tonev and a group of MPs introduced another bill in which experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy have been involved, in which more hypotheses have been developed regarding solving the problems of people with disabilities, and since today we have two laws, and it is extremely important to pass a bill which will pass both at first and second reading, I would like to say that we will withdraw our bill, we will support the bill of Associate Professor Tonev accordingly and we will ask, if we can pass today and at second reading, so that we can solve the problems of people with disabilities today. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u297	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva, for this procedure. Please submit to the Court your will to withdraw the bill, and this should happen and should be reported to me until the vote is taken. Thank you for that. For procedure, Professor Tonev. For clearance, Professor Tonev? [[Reply.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u298	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 43, para. Second sentence, first of all, from the substation, please be admitted to the plenary assoc.Professor Dr. Lyubomir Ivanov, Deputy Minister of Health, and Mr. Marin Bajchev, Head of Department of Disabilities Integration at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u299	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Colleagues, I am voting on the procedural proposal for admission. They voted 102 MPs: 95, against 3, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the persons to whom admission has been voted to the House. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, it has been announced that the Conference of Presidents has decided to extend the duration of the Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances relating to the 1 billion-billion-dollar Memorandum signed by the Government on 23 March. A dollar with two corporations. I ask you to allow my proposal, which I have deposited in the National Assembly's Office, No 47-254-02-80, of the 27th of this month, please comply with the proposal of the Conference of Presidents and allow the proposal to be voted by Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u301	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Colleagues, with regard to the request made by the parliamentary group of the BSP to Bulgaria (BSP) for inclusion on the agenda of the draft decision submitted by them, I say that I believe that the situation created is within the competence of the executive authority, that the executive authority (BSP) is, after all, we are the ones who have voted on it, has already expressed the country's position. As long as this has passed, let us say, in some form an ultimatative period by the Russian Federation and our position has already been expressed, I believe that it is more rational to wait for the outcome of the events and the National Assembly, if necessary, even in an extraordinary meeting, Mr Svilenski, to gather and take an attitude on the case. I believe that we should actually see what will be the outcome of the events. That's why I'm not putting this on the agenda today. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Come on in for a procedure to run out of this question. Dr. Hristov, I'll give you one too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to correct your executive power, I don't know what you mean by executive power, it hasn't spoken. It was pronounced by the Prime Minister or the Minister of Foreign Affairs, possibly, if it was pronounced at this time, I don't know. [[Noise and lines.]] I understand he didn't pronounce himself. That is, there is no way to justify an act by the Prime Minister with the executive power. And whether or not the National Assembly will have to be convened with this behaviour you are doing at the moment, I think it will be really very soon to call the extraordinary meeting, because the situation in which Bulgaria is going to fall. I think everyone in this House understands their responsibility as a MP and the actions that we need to take. I don't know why you're playing with both national security and international relations and everything that's happening right now? In what language, other than the Bulgarian language, should be explained in this Chamber what situation Bulgaria has in international relations, what situation the National Assembly is in today. Here we have four or five hours to see a refusal to solve the problem. It's clear who's to blame. Yesterday's session, the other day's hearings. Who's to blame, it's clear. We did the investigation, but we have a decision to make. And when the time comes for a decision, the MPs suddenly do not want to make or do not want to try to make a decision. Put the point in, it's urgent enough. Let the MPs speak their minds, let all points of view be heard. And if the national representation, which represents all Bulgarian citizens, decides that this is the right position, that this is how we protect the national interest, to reject it, of course. It's not said that we should... There are three voting buttons, not only for, but you must give the MPs the opportunity to rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u303	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I am still asking myself the question: if this topic is within the competence of the executive authority, that is, any executive body, why have we voted trust in this authority and seized its functions? [[Noise and lines.]] What is the point of the existence of the Foreign Ministry, of the Prime Minister, of the Council of Ministers if we seize these functions? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Hristov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u304	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We take note of the fact about the bill that has been tabled for the disabled. This is extremely important, today we are twelve minutes short. Please pay serious attention to this. If we do not have the practical opportunity to deal with diplomatic matters because there is an executive power, then the Law that we are looking at right now has made the gesture to withdraw only and only to support it is very important because tomorrow some people are left without pensions. So please, first, let's concentrate on this law. Secondly, I ask you to extend the working time until the adoption of a second reading of the law in question. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u305	Thank you, Dr. Christov. Indeed, I would have put to the vote an extension of time after clearing these procedural issues. Mrs. Trifonova, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u306	Mr. Chairman, since morning, both the opposition and some of the government have been asking you to include as an item on the agenda the extension of the temporary committee for Gemcorp. Including Mr. Emil Georgiev just got up, you pretended you didn't hear him, and you kept arguing...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u307	Mrs. Trifonova, I'm going to put him...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u308	When are you going to put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u309	I'll put him through.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u310	Are you going to hide Mr. Kiril Petkov again because you know what will come out of this investigation? Until when?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u311	I will if you give me a chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u312	When are you going to put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u313	If you give me a chance to get to the voting procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u314	We gave you a chance. There was a procedure Mr. Emil Georgiev and you continue to remain silent on the subject. Are you waiting for the hours to run out, hiding again, once again, the prime minister in resignation, or the future prime minister? Please put the item to the vote, it takes three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u315	Mrs. Trifonova, we need to clear all procedural issues for the agenda and for the extension of time. I said I'd put it to the vote, but you weren't in the room. I'm a man of my word. Are there any other procedures, colleagues? I won't. First of all, I put the following item on the agenda, namely the Draft Decision on the extension of the Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances relating to the 1 billion-billion-dollar Memorandum signed by the Government. Dollar with Gemcorp and IP3 Corporation. Please include this item on the agenda as the fifth vote for the weekly programme. They voted 129 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 1. Colleagues, I will propose that points 4 and 5 be considered in today's plenary, then we continue with parliamentary scrutiny and that the time be extended until the parliamentary control is completed, specifying that there are no more than 7 "8 questions about parliamentary control." Do I need to specify what else we're voting on? [[Noise and lines.]] The fourth point is for TELK solutions, the fifth is Gemcorp and then parliamentary control. Is that clear? I'm voting on my proposal, fellow Members. Mrs. Trifonova, you see, I'm a man of my word. Abort the vote. They voted 135 people's ideas: for 134, against none, abstention 1. That's how the offer is accepted. Now, fellow Members, we can proceed to the report from the Committee on Health. Docent Tonev, come in. Colleagues, the report is relatively long, to keep it in mind about five pages. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] This is the committee's report and it should be read, Mr. Nenkov, in full. I'm actually stating that there is an additional report. One moment just to read the message, because the item on the agenda includes the two bills. On the basis of art. 81 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we withdraw the draft we have tabled on 18 May 2022. On 13 March 2020, the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly, No 47-254-01-54. The volition is from all the importers of the Bill and was received in the Law at 13.32, so the item on the agenda remains only the Bill which was submitted by Mr. Anton Tonev and a group of MPs. In this regard, there is also an edited report by the Committee on Health, which is two pages. So, colleagues, please stay in the room. Here you are, Professor Tonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, given that the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency Situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 47-254-01-54, submitted by Denitsa Evgenyeva Sacheva and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 18 May 2022 has been withdrawn in writing by the importers, allow me to present the First Voting Report in the part relating to the Draft Law supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 47-254-01-67, tabled by Anton Yordanov Tonev and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 10 June 2022. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences, No 47-254-01-67, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev and a group of MPs on 10 June 2022. At its regular meeting held on 23 June 2022, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 47-254-01-67, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev and a group of MPs on 10 June 2022. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Petar Gribnev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Head of the Disabilities Department at the Agency for Social Assistance Mrs. Miglena Miteva, Head of the Department of Finance at the National Insurance Institute Ms. Katya Petrova, representatives of the administration of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, of the trade unions and of patient and non-governmental organizations. In the performance of art. 72, para. 2 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Committee on Health before discussing the substantive bills, carried out a verification and found that the bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences, No 47-254-01-67, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev and a group of MPs on 10 June 2022, complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the decree on its implementation and the Rules on the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly. In the Committee on Health, on the basis of art. 31, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 73, para. 7 of the Council of Ministers, the Bulgarian Medical Union, the Union of invalids in Bulgaria and the Union of the Military Disabilities and Military Victims have received opinions from the national representative organizations of and for the disabled, members of the National Council for Disabilities at the Council of Ministers, the Bulgarian Medical Union, the Union of invalids in Bulgaria. In the performance of art. 73, para. 2 of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the National Insurance Institute, the Social Assistance Agency and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. The bill to supplement the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 47-254-01-67, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev and a group of MPs on 10 June 2022 and the reasons for it were presented by Dr. Anton Tonev. It shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that the provisions of § 20 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and for overcoming the consequences have extended the expert decisions of TELK and NELK to determine a permanently reduced performance/type and degree of disability that expire during the emergency situation or the emergency epidemic situation until 30 June 2022. In view of the length of the period during which the expert decisions were extended, the re-certification of those persons by the authorities of the medical expertise in a short period of time is seriously difficult. It is therefore expected that by that date a significant number of persons, including those on which expert decisions expire after 31 March 2022, will remain without a valid expert decision by TelK or NELK, which limits the possibility to benefit from the rights regulated by the legislation in force. Prof. Tonev pointed out that the Law aims to extend the period of the expert decisions of TelK and NELK in order to ensure the possibility of obtaining eligible aid from the state to the moment when it will be objectively possible for the re-certification of the persons by the authorities of the medical expertise. It is therefore envisaged that the period of the expert decisions of TELK and NELK should be extended until a new expert decision is issued, but not later than 31 December 2022, only when the person concerned has taken the necessary re-certification actions within 15 July 2022, but due to objective inability to carry out the extra burden of the committees concerned, cannot undergo the procedure within the three-month period. In this way, the use of the rights arising from the valid expert decision will be ensured only with regard to persons who have taken re-certification actions, but are not responsible for them at the time, and none have been issued. In order to ensure that the persons concerned enjoy their rights, the obligation of regional health inspections to provide information on applications submitted to the National Insurance Institute and the Social Assistance Agency by 20 July 2022 is also provided for. The legislative change is proposed to enter into force from 1 July 2022 in order to ensure continuity in the use of the rights regulated by the legislation in force. On the basis of art. 73, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at the meeting were held a public discussion with the participation of representatives of non-governmental organizations who have provided written opinions on the bill. The Bulgarian Medical Union, the National Representative Organizations of and for the Disabilities and the Union of Military Disabilities and Military Victims support the Bill as it fully responds to the factual situation and to the needs of the people. It has been pointed out that the regulatory changes should also settle the rights and payments in respect of the military invalids and the military victims. The Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Agency for Social Assistance support the bill, noting that the regulatory changes are necessary and timely, because, on the one hand, sufficient time is provided for the medical expertise to testify to the applicants and, on the other, ensuring that a significant number of disabled people are able to receive social payments and other support under current legislation. The Ministry of Finance does not object to extending the term of the decisions of TelK and NELK, noting that ensuring that persons are able to enjoy rights arising from the legislative change should take place within the framework of the approved funds for the relevant year on the budgets of the responsible ministries and departments. The written opinion of the National Insurance Institute states that the legislative decision in question balances the legal situation of persons for whom the fixed period of invalidity expires from 1 April 2022 to 30 June 2022, which is in the interest of the entitled persons. The extension of the disability period for a longer period of time will allow for an even distribution of the work of the medical expertise authorities, while guaranteeing all pension and social rights of persons. It is noted that the regulatory changes should take into account the provision of art. 19 of the Public Finance Act. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria expresses principled support for the Bill, with the written opinion containing specific proposals which, if possible, be discussed between the first and second votes of the Bill. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health unanimously agreed that the continuation of the expert decisions of TELK and NELK is extremely necessary and that regulatory changes should therefore be adopted within possible time limits. Regarding the bill submitted by Anton Tonev and a group of MPs, specific questions were raised regarding the provisions of the Public Finance Act and what mechanism will be provided for the funds needed to finance the activities subject to the regulation. After the discussion was closed, a vote was taken on the following results: Under the Act supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences, No 47-254-01-67, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev and a group of MPs on 10 June 2022: ..for..8............................................................................................................................................................................... 10............................................................................ On the basis of the discussion and the vote on the above results, the Committee on Health suggests that the National Assembly should not adopt in the first vote a bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and to overcome the consequences, No 47-254-01-67, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev and a group of MPs on 10 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u317	Thank you, Professor Tonev. I'm opening the discussion, colleagues. In fact, Assoc. Tonev, do you want an opinion by importer or any other importer to express? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u318	Mr President, honourable Members, as in two of the procedures before we read the report, we are talking about one of the unpleasant consequences associated with the Kozid crisis that our country went through two years ago. Two bills have been tabled. I thank my colleagues from GERB who have made their decision. The Bill does not change rights or way of issuing telk solutions. It is only about the possibility of non-leaving periods in which people with disabilities do not receive their pensions as they have received them so far. In this way, we are trying to erase one of the unpleasant consequences of the Kovid crisis. I believe that the bill will be supported by plenary, so that is what I can say as an importer. The materials are available, willing to look at them, and will be read eventually in the second vote, for which we have united with colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u319	Thank you, Professor Tonev. I'm opening the discussion. Are there any people who want to make a statement, colleagues? There are no speeches. I'm calling off the discussion. We're waiting for the coworkers to come back to the gym. During this time, I can make a communication on Parliamentary control. Mr. Grozdan Karadjov will take part in the meeting today. He will answer a question from the MPs Pavlin Pavlov Krastev, Adlen Shukri Shevked and Bajram Bajram and Mukaddes Yusuf Nalbant. The second participant in Control will be the Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova, who will answer three questions from Mr. Branimir Balachev, Krum Zarkov and Ivelin Ivanov. In today's parliamentary control they will not be able to participate: Deputy Prime Minister Borislav Sandov, who is on a business trip outside the country. On the basis of art. 92, para. 3 Due to urgent commitments, they will not be able to participate: Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov, Minister of Health Asena Serbenova, Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska and Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev, and most of them will not be able to participate in the event that the Control actually shifted quite late today, and Minister Genchovska for objective reasons. I guess she's probably involved in the music situation. Colleagues, we can now move on to a vote. I put to the first vote the bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences with importer Anton Tonev and a group of MPs on 10 June 2022. Please, the voting regime and, fellow Members, I appeal to you to remain in the Chamber, because there will be a request that the bill be voted on and on the second reading today, so there will be more votes. And then there's the point. 5, I guess we're not supposed to discuss it there either, colleagues, maybe we'll proceed quickly to the vote. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The bill was passed in the first vote. Professor Tonev, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u320	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the bill adopted in the first vote should be examined and put to a second vote in one sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u321	Thank you, Professor Tonev. My fellow Members, I am putting the procedural proposal to the vote. Please, voting mode. Vote 138 MPs: 138, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Docent Tonev, please introduce us to the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u322	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! THE LAW OF THE to supplement the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences (promise, SG No. ...) § 1. Paragraph 20a shall be inserted in the transitional and final provisions: "Twenty-sixteen-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. (1) The expert decisions of TELK and NELK for the determination of permanently reduced performance/type and degree of disability to which the disability period expired from 13 March 2020 to 30 June 2022 shall continue until a new expert decision has been issued, but not later than 31 December 2022, when the persons have submitted an application for certification by TELK until 15 July 2022. (2) By 20 July 2022, regional health inspections shall provide the National Insurance Institute and the Agency for Social Assistance with information on all persons who have submitted an application for a TELK certificate from 13 March 2020 to 15 July 2022. (3) The payment of the pensions for expert decisions of TELK and NELK, on which the disability period expired from 1 April 2022 to 30 June 2022, shall be continued under the conditions and for the duration for which the expert decisions of TELK and NELK under para. 1. (4) The social benefits granted by the Agency for Social Assistance under Expert Decisions of TelK and NELK, on which the disability period expired from 1 April 2022 to 30 June 2022, shall be continued and the terminated social benefits shall be resumed, under the conditions and for the duration for which the relevant expert decisions of TELK and NELK under para. 1. (5) The directions issued under the Law on Persons with Disabilities on the basis of expert decisions of TelK and NELK, on which the disability period expired from 1 April 2022 to 30 June 2022, shall continue under the conditions and for the duration for which the expert decisions of TELK and NELK under para. 1. (6) Where, from 1 April 2022 to 30 June 2022, the granting of personal assistance has ceased due to the expiry of the disability of the expert decisions of TELMK and NELK under para. 1, the same shall be provided on the basis of the directions under para. 5 and after a procedure under art. 13 and 14 of the Personal Aid Act. Final provision §2. The law shall enter into force from 1 July 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u323	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote the name of the bill, § 1, the name of the section Please, voting mode. They voted 143 MPs: 143, no opposition and no abstentions. With this, the proposal has been adopted, and with this the bill of the second vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE ACCOMPANYING OF ALL FACTS AND FACTS RELATED TO THE MAMORANDUM FOR 1 MILLION. DOLLAR WITH GEMCORP AND IP3 CORPORATION Importer is the national representative Emil Georgiev. Chairman of the Temporary Commission. Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor to present the draft decision you have submitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u324	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reasons for extending the deadline by 1 month is the need for additional information, additional time to get acquainted with a large amount of information, the study, as well as an urgent hearing of the institutions and competent authorities. I would like to inform you that the proposal is in agreement with all members of the Temporary Commission. On their behalf, we sent a request for information concerning the Memorandum to the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Energy. We are about to request the necessary information from the SANS and other specialized services, so I propose the following project - for the Temporary Commission, elected by the 47th National Assembly on 1 June 2022: Project! DECISION extending the provisional committee's period of validity to establish all the facts and circumstances relating to the government's signature on 23.03.2022. Memorandum of 1 billion. USD with GEMCORP and IP3 CORPORATION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall extend the provisional committee's period of validity to establish all the facts and circumstances relating to the memorandum signed by the Government on 23.03.2022 for 1 billion. USD with GEMCORP and IP3 CORPORATION by one month.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u325	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, I'm only going to make one editorial proposal. From the text of the decision in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 to drop the text on 23.03.2022. "This is due because the proposed draft decision, as in the decision on the creation of the Commission itself, this text is not available, it must therefore be removed and the texts should be completely identical. I put to the vote the editorial proposal made in paragraphs 1 (2) and 3 of paragraph 3 - which is an identity between the two decisions - that the Commission itself has been adopted by a name that does not contain that date. Please, voting mode. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. That's how the offer is accepted. And now I'm voting on the draft resolution with the newly adopted editorial amendment. Please, voting mode. They voted 142 MPs: 142, no opposition and no abstentions. With this, the draft decision has been adopted, and we have exhausted this item on the agenda. Before we move on to Parliamentary Control, I am giving 10 minutes off, and I reiterate that Deputy Prime Minister Grozdan Karadzhov and Minister Nadezhda Yordanova will participate in the Control. The other representatives of the Council of Ministers for my consideration will not be able to participate in today's parliamentary control. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u326	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. The representatives of the Council of Ministers will be here any minute. The first question is from the MPs Pavlin Krastev, Adlen Shevked, Bajram Bajram, Mukaddes Nalbant regarding the repair of the Republican road III-508 Kardzhali, Ardino road III-865 p.k. Stoyanovo "Ardino" Kardzhali. Please, who will present the question? You have the floor, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, this week we were quite wondering whether to ask you a question or not, but there was a great interest from the residents of two districts of Kardzhali and Smolyan, and that is why our question to you will be precisely about this road that connects Kardzhali District and Smolyan District, namely road III-508 Kardzhali Ardino, p.k. Stoyanovo "Ardino" Kardzhali. Mr. Minister, the case is a little different here, here from 11 divisions only two of the sections have not been repaired. Our asking to you will be about this, because there is no need for design and so on. We waited to ask this question because we all had the expectation that the renovation would continue, but it never happened, and now the summer months are coming, there are some signs standing for at least two months, and already the holes are, you could say, pits. Therefore, Mr. Minister, our question to you will be: when will the necessary actions be taken by the Road Infrastructure Agency, the District Department of Kardzhali, on the immediate renewal of the repair activities on the other two sections of the road, strengthening the road and opening it up for its subsequent use in a state with the standard requirements of the Republican road connecting Kardzhali District and Smolyan District? Minister, we have the hope that in the little time that remains, you will continue to ask for information to do everything possible this time to be repaired in the near future so that the people who live in both areas can remain satisfied with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u328	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u329	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Shevked, Mrs. Nalbant, Mr. Bajram and Mr. Krastev! In each parliamentary control I must have one or several times from Kardzhaliysko, because really in this case Smolyansko, because these are the two areas in which there is the greatest need for travel on a road, as there are no other alternative sources of movement. So I assure you that serious attention is paid to the current repair and maintenance in these two districts. Republic road III-865 Taryn to Srednogortsi p.k. Stoyanovo "Ardino" "Boyno " Kardzhali on the territory of Kardzhali district is approximately 47 km long, given its unsatisfactory technical operational condition from Ardino to Kardzhali, this route is included in our programme for current repairs for this year. The performance of the works is divided into 12 sections, which are carried out in two stages. The first stage includes the six stretches with a total length of 9,816 km and the second six stretches with a total length of 12 km. The first stage was awarded and implemented in 2020, with three sections of the second stage in the region of the village of Chubrika with a total length of 0,5 km the activities were completed only at the beginning of 2022. The three sections from the village of Chubrika to Kardzhali with a total length of 11.5 km were completed and the fourth section remained for the carrying out layer and banquets and the fifth were performed the land works and local repairs. The deadline for implementation of the current repair is until the end of September this year, with the planned activities including improving the drainage of the road by cleaning of regulations, trenches and waterfalls, aligning of banquets, laying a dense and non-solid asphalt mixture and after completion of the asphalt works a horizontal marking will be placed, road signs and restrictive systems will be installed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u330	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Would you like a line? Here you are, Mrs. Shevked, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u331	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would say that we are in part satisfied with your response, as you have determined specifically that by the end of September, the repair of this area that we are asking you about should be completed by the end of September. But the problem with us is that we often travel around the area and there is a tendency that we do not work on these areas. In this regard, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, we appeal to you to strengthen control on the part of Regional Road Management, API, of course, and the Ministry, so that, as you say, this project will be completed in September 2022. We will continue to ask you questions because our Republican Road Network is in a miserable state, so if you continue to be Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development in the next cabinet, prepare yourself for more questions on our part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u332	Thank you, Mrs. Shevked. Would you like a hole, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? No. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Have a nice weekend. Colleagues, we are moving on to the questions of the Minister of Justice. The first question is from the MP Branimir Balachev on the design and construction of the Courthouse in Varna. Here you are, Mr. Balachev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u333	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! We all know that the court acts that are issued are always issued in the name of the people. My question is dictated by the fact that more than 140 years Varna and the Varna region have a major problem. For more than 140 years since the restoration of the Bulgarian state Varna is one of the few cities that do not have a Court of Justice. In the years even there have been cases in which the court has met in barracks, which is obviously the slightest insult to the judiciary itself, and not only the people who work in it, but also those who actually benefit from the legal protection of the state through its judicial authorities. There is no dispute about the circumstances, Madam Minister, that the Varna appeals area is one of the largest in the country. It covers not only four district districts of Shumen, Targovishte, Dobrich and Silistra, but also as territorial development of the Varna Judicial Region, the District Court and the District Court are one of the largest in numbers, with the highest workload. More than 1,000 people work in the justice system in the Varna appeals area, with people visiting them having a direct dependence, i.e. they have direct activities in the judicial area, i.e. in courts, prosecutors and the investigation. Lawyers, lawyers, court contractors and so on are over 3,000 people. That is to say, about 4,000 people have direct cashiership to the activities of the judiciary in Varna, and the population that serves the Varna Appeals Region is over 1.5 million. At the moment, I assume that you are aware of this, as you have visited our judicial district, the proceedings are divided into four places in four different parts of the city of Varna in buildings that their last purpose would be for judicial activity. One building is a former building of the City Council in Varna, which is obviously not adapted, has only four courtrooms, which hinders the normal activity of both the Appeals and the four compositions of the Varna District Court. More than two kilometers away from it is located the former dorm for construction workers with one room, which is exactly where two beds and one locker can be placed in them at the time. Currently there are more than 600 people from the District Court and the District Attorney's Office, who are in place, is the exact word that I say, because I have a direct impression of this on several people, and especially prosecutors are more than three in one room, and you can imagine as well as prosecutors, and judges how they are law enforcement can safely be taken into account in this, in the act they are about to issue, and not to mention that these conditions do not meet any criteria on labour safety for the required meter, for the required square meters, for ventilation and so on. The next court is the Administrative Court, which is located four kilometers away from the District Court, in a completely different direction and is a former fitness center, which I do not know whose fault I actually know, but it is not the place here to comment on, was purchased for a fabulous amount absolutely unnecessary and there was the restored Administrative Court, most likely and you know this fact that there windows do not open. Once you're in the room, it's over, and from where you're gonna breathe, it's a matter of judges and prosecutors there. The last cell is the former part of the former firehouse or the current firehouse of Varna, where part of the prosecution, the investigation and the services directly responsible, and this is the arrest and all the components to it. In other words, the conditions in which the Varna judicial district works are, to put it mildly, more than tragic, and I must assure you from this tribune that there is a full consensus not only of the legal lobby in Varna, but of all the areas of the population, including the district government, of the city of Varna are unanimous that it is time for Varna to have a courthouse after 144 years. I know, and with our cooperation it was made in the shortest possible time, and entered into force, I think that ten days ago or fifteen, the detailed planning of this property of the Ministry of Justice, which represents the former circus site, is known in the territory of the city of Varna. That is, there are all the conditions in a suitable place, because there is exactly the administrative center, there is the middle of the city of Varna. By putting the compass and turning, this is exactly the administrative center of Varna, a wide, convenient place can develop a very nice courthouse, and all the conditions are available. We're waiting for your cooperation. In this regard, I also ask the question: is it possible, after the detailed planning has come into force, to have your assistance in providing funds for the design and in the next year to put money into the budget and to start a normal Courthouse in the city of Varna? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u334	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. To colleagues, I let Mr. Balachev develop his question much longer, because I think it is important for the Minister to get clarity from the source of the case. Here you are, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u335	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, Mr. Balachev described very precisely the situation with the judicial buildings in Varna. It's a long-standing problem. It's really a long time ago. For some of the data you've released, I've had déjà vu since 2015. When the District Court building was in an even more miserable state, with very bad domestic-hygienic conditions. Let's get back to your question. At present, the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria provides that the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council manages the buildings provided to the judiciary. The Judicial Law has detailed this procedure and it is also provided that the funds for the construction of judicial buildings are provided through the budget of the judiciary. But I do not want to say that I cannot cooperate, on the contrary, because, as you rightly pointed out, there is a large area in Varna that has been provided for the management of a state-owned company.Fund prison case, which is to the Minister of Justice and for which there has been a debate there to be built for the years to be held. The plan for the regulation and construction of this plot, the amendment to the detailed planning plan, entered into force on 2 June 2022. At present, the Ministry of Justice has not received an official request from the Supreme Judicial Council asking the Minister of Justice to consent to the property to begin a management procedure from the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, although on various occasions there is no interest in building a judicial building there. What I have done is that I have made a written request to the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council on expressing investment intentions concerning the property so mentioned, so that it can be assessed accordingly for subsequent procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u336	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Balachev, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u337	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! What you said about who has what responsibilities and where the funds would come from is true. I just need to let you know that according to my contacts with the chairmen of the Board of Appeal, the District Court and the two prosecutions, the same have submitted the necessary request to the Supreme Judicial Council. You know, he's at a time of construction of a new and most likely, if all goes well, maybe October we'll have a new Supreme Judicial Council where these problems will be considered, but I'm really looking for your cooperation. What we are saying, on behalf of the real community of judges, prosecutors and lawyers in Varna, because obviously, a problem that is 140 years old must be put into this problem in order to be resolved. By the way, I did a background check. This might be interesting for all of us. The European Union has not built a single courthouse for 50 years. The last courthouse was built 27 years ago in Spain and, for God's sake, at last we have something useful, so I accept your hand lodged, I will bring it down to the knowledge of colleagues in Varna and Northeastern Bulgaria. I hope that together we can actually make sure that, in the next few years, we really have the first in the European Union in the 21st century Court of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u338	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Would you like a hole, Madam Secretary? No. Before we move on to the last question, colleagues, however, while there are people in this House, I should read and receive written answers to questions and questions for the period 24 June 2022. Written answers from: - Minister Alexander Nikolov on two questions from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev on a question of the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; two questions of the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; a question of the MPs Iskra Mihailova and Tsoncho Ganev; - Minister Asena Serbenova on a question from the National Representative Elisaveta Belobradova; - Minister Boyko Rashkov on a question of the MP Christian Vigenin; - Minister Georgi Gokov on a question of the National Representative Stoil Stoilov - Deputy Prime Minister Grozdan Karadjov on two questions of the MP Dimitar Tashev; and MP Yordan Terziyski; - Minister Ivan Ivanov on questions of the MPs Alexander Dunchev; Petar Kulenski; Michal Kambarev; and Stoil Stoilov; - Deputy Prime Minister Cornelia Ninova of a question from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev, Inna Ivanova and Tsvetelina Zarkin; - Minister Nikolay Denkov on a question from the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov; - Minister Radostin Vassilev on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tashev; - Minister Hristo Prodanov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tashev. We're moving on to the last question of control today. He is from the National Representative Ivelin Ivanov about a signal from officers in the detention room located in the building of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Silistra. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u339	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! My question relates to this. During my last visit to my reception in Silistra, I was approached by officers from the City of Silistra, who said that at the moment there was a proposal from the Director General of the Directorate General for Punishment and Chief Commissioner Ivaylo Yordanov, which concerns the closing of the investigative arrest in the town of Silistra, an arrest which serves the district court, district courts, the district prosecutor's office and so on. The arrest, by the way, is in a function before 1985 and certain motives have made it possible for Chief Commissioner Yordanov to carry out this proposal. I'm guessing it's about the optimization you took in your portfolio ministry. The shared by the employees in the proposal, by the way, I requested it, is that the investigative arrest will be moved to the town of Dobrich, which is a distance from the town of Silistra to 90 km, and therefore the employees of the investigational arrest will be distributed proportionately in Dobrich and in Varna. Dobrich is 90 km away, as I said, and Varna is about 140 km away, which in turn will create quite difficulties both in fulfilling their duty as working hours and in carrying out investigative investigative actions by the investigating authorities and by the judicial authorities respectively. My question on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to you is the following: is it necessary and appropriate to close the investigational arrest in Silistra and move it to the city of Dobrich; this will not interfere with the normal work of both the investigating and judicial authorities and the officers who carry out this activity in the arrest; is this not a breach of the normal conditions and, from a security point of view, respectively, in the transport of detained persons with whom the authorities who have a portfolio to them will carry out the designated actions? After your reply, I have further considerations to simply point them in a direction that is perhaps better in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u340	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u341	Dear Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you are putting an extremely important question, and it is quite timely. Indeed, there is a proposal from the professional leadership of the Directorate-General for Punishment and the closing of the investigational arrest in the city of Silistra. Before I go into the details, let me clarify two very important things. Firstly, the final decision has not yet been made. We are at the stage of discussing the proposal precisely to take all the views. Secondly, it's not about closing down state numbers, it's about moving them, if it comes to that. What justifies the proposal of the Directorate-General for Punishment? These are basically two groups of reasons. First of all, as you rightly pointed out, the investigative arrest has been in operation since before 1985, in fact since 1980. It does not meet the international requirements for what conditions are to be kept in custody. Since this is one of the problems that the Republic of Bulgaria has, the Torture Prevention Committee has constant recommendations in this direction. Although we are making progress, we still have investigative arrests that do not meet international standards, and Silistra is one of them. I have commissioned a check to see how many judgmental decisions we have and what benefits have been paid for in Silistra's bad domestic conditions. The other reason why it is reasoned in this direction is the low workload of the investigational arrest and this is a lasting trend over the years. Last year, the workload of the arrest was two people on average a day. At present there are five persons at capacity 12. U.S. arrest numbers are 19, so there's a disproportionate distribution between detainees and surveillance personnel. The circumstances which you pointed out that the investigational arrest in Silistra serves all judicial authorities in Silistra and the distance from Dobrich and Varna respectively, I have commissioned an analysis and the Security Directorate General has conducted an analysis of what it would mean as cash, additional costs in relation to the convoy from the perspective of the detained persons from Dobrich to Silistra, respectively from Varna to Silistra. We have the readings. Indeed, there are considerations, and that is why we continue to work from the point of view of the organisation of the convoy activity, because there is a legal requirement that it be only within the light part of the day. Sometimes the investigative actions last for several hours, this requires duplicate teams, so therefore all these circumstances would lead to additional burden of the General Directorate of Security. The analysis and work are continuing. On Monday, we have a meeting at the Ministry of Finance, so I can assure you that the final decision will be made once all these questions are answered. I see that the people's representative from Smolyan is also here, colleague Dimitrov, because there, for example, we had the same problem, but we decided to unite with the prison dorm. There are different options. We're just discussing the issue from all angles. However, we must assume that under such a low burden of arrest, under poor domestic conditions that do not meet international standards, some measures must be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u342	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u343	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I hope that you will really comply with all the motives, conditions, because in the end, such an action is specifically for optimization, not only numbers, these are living people who perform their duties. They're interns, eventually and experience, and they're valuable. It's just that these movements to another locality at such a distance, first, increase their working time, generally by about three hours, which is not small, create other conditions. You know, there is also a risk assessment that is quite characteristic in such an activity and needs to be assessed. By the way, they said that in a possible such action by the Ministry of Justice, some of them will most likely leave, they have personal reasons, which is quite resonant. Just to share, although this is a topic for another conversation, there is a project for a new detention facility for this kind of activity. The project hasn't been one or two years, it's further back in time, there's a special place. There's a project, like I said. With your cooperation, it is good to review it, because the project is in line with all the European standards that one such room must meet, and with good wishes just to make a proper assessment, which will accordingly also be in favour of the employees who perform this work. Thank you and have a good day's work.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-01.u344	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Would you like a hole, Madam Secretary? No. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Colleagues, we're running out of agendas today. The next regular meeting will be held on 6 July at 9.00 on an additional announced agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
