ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u1	Dear colleagues, it's 7:10, so we can proceed to registration. There are 181 MPs registered. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, today we will meet at a point only, namely: MAKING A DECISION TO CALL THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL'S BENEFICIARY WITH MINISTER PRINCIPLE LORD KIRYL PETKOV PETKOV We should read the draft decision: Project! DECISION for a vote of mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Kiril Petkov The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 89 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED He voted mistrustful of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Kiril Petkov Petkov because of the government's failure in financial and economic policy. I inform you that the meeting is broadcast on BNT 2 and Bulgarian National Radio. Dear colleagues, I think we can... For procedure? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! Since this is an important, crucial day for all Bulgarian citizens and it is very important that Bulgarian citizens understand their envoys here for what and how they vote, I do procedure for direct transmission on Channel 1 and the Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u3	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I'm voting on this procedural proposal. Vote 239 MPs: for 238, against none, abstention 1. That's how the offer is accepted. Please activate the cameras on BNT 1. Colleagues, if there are no other requests for a statement on procedural issues and after confirmation that BNT 1 cameras are on, we will also move to a vote. Colleagues, don't worry, I'll wait more than one minute for everyone to vote, so relax. Vote 239 MPs: 124 against 115, no abstentions. With this, the vote is successful. We are continuing the Change. There is a request for a re-vote. Vote 239 MPs: for 123, against 116, no abstentions. With this, the vote is successful. Prime Minister, you have the floor, then I will give the opportunity to all MPs who want to express their negative vote. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, Ministers! It was an honor to lead a government which was overthrown by Mr. Peevski, by the Lord Borisov, by Slavi Trifonov and Mrs. Mitrofanova. [[We continue the Change, the BSP for Bulgaria, the Democratic Bulgaria, and the ministers.]] What I want to make clear is that this vote is just a small step from a very long road. What they did not understand is that they could not win the Bulgarian people. We promise that we will continue this battle in order to win our country and one day we will have Bulgaria without backstage, without the mafia a normal, successful European state. Thank you. [[The People's Representatives of the "We are continuing the Change," "BSP for Bulgaria", "Democratic Bulgaria" and the ministers are becoming, intense long applauses.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u5	Mr. Atalay, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u6	Colleagues, my vote came out that I voted against it, but it's not true. [[(Bourney applause from "We are continuing the Change".BSP for Bulgaria....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] Thank you. [[Radio, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u7	To explain the negative vote, Iskren Mitev. Come in, you have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u8	I want the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u9	After explaining the negative vote, Mrs. Atanasova, that's the order. Here you are, Mr. Mitev, you have the floor. [[The People's Representatives of the DPS are leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today I voted against not because the leaders of the PP ordered me, but because, Iskren Nikolaev Mitev, MP from XXV. I am a servant of the people, and my reasons are quite simple, normal, human hope in the eyes of the protesters, the desire for normality. The words of the people outside, the people I work for. Words that often sound like a legacy: We've had enough of protesting our whole lives. These guys shouldn't touch power. Please don't give up, we're counting on you. Mafia out! You should've pulled his tie harder. I'm inspired by your deeds, we didn't earn anything, we made it. You have our support. Bravo! Courage, hope! There are better times ahead, we're with you, don't give up! We'll be in the square together again! The change has already begun not with the people in parliament, but with those outside. They asked for the change, and they will ensure that this happens no matter what, because their voice is too strong to be silenced even by this tribune. Today I voted against the status quo and for change. We continue the change with the Bulgarian people together. [[We continue the Change, the BSP for Bulgaria, the Democratic Bulgaria, and the ministers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u11	My fellow Members, are there any other candidates for a negative vote? I can't see. Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor. I hope it won't be about today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u12	No, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers in resignation already adopted, honourable Members, Bulgarian citizens! We are witnessing the first such decision: the 90th cabinet for the first time fell with a vote of mistrust against it and this will remain a historic event. [[(The People's Representatives of the.. Continue the Change... BSP for Bulgaria..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] The declaration of our Parliament group is not about this. [[noise and lines]] Mr. Chairman, may I have order in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u13	They're right, Mrs. Atanasova, to leave. They will leave and make order. If you want, wait for them to leave the room. Colleagues, please, whoever is not coming out of the courtroom, take his place.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our declaration is not about this historic event, as I stressed. It is on another occasion - an extremely important, historical issue. Today at 11.00 at an extraordinary press conference, the leader of the Political Party GERB and the group of GERB-SDZ in the Forty-Seventh People's Assembly made our position clear to the French Presidency's proposal that the Republic of Northern Macedonia should start negotiations on membership in the European Union. We recognize this proposal as the best ever received, and only small adjustments are needed to match the Bulgarian national interest. This is something Kiril Petkov and his government have not done so far. Kiril Petkov was never able to draw up a Bulgarian proposal on the case with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. With an unconstitutional decision of the Council of Ministers last week, for which way, he ordered the French proposal to be submitted to the Bulgarian Parliament without the mandatory opinion of the Council of Ministers. He hid cowardly without expressing his government's position. Today he ordered the President of the Foreign Commission to delay the call of the Commission and scheduled a meeting of the Council of Ministers at the same time as the Commission meeting. With his inaction and with his lies Kiril Petkov deceived Brussels, Washington and Skopje that he would solve the Macedonian issue. He didn't just solve the controversial issues, he deepened them. He turned the citizens on both sides of the border against each other. But most of all, he threatened the protection of the Bulgarian national interest. Kiril Petkov with his actions prevented all the time the negotiation process with his conflicting signals, by sabotaging the work of diplomats and experts, with his dual foreign policy, by hiding the process of negotiations from the Bulgarian society. Not once has he or his representative introduced the opposition to the course of negotiations. Moreover, we learned from the press, mainly international, the press in the Republic of Northern Macedonia or elsewhere, what Kiril Petkov promised. We recall that before the signing of the 2017 Treaty, opposition lawmakers were informed of all stages of the negotiations, and the draft treaty was sent to Parliament for introduction and opinion before it was adopted by a decision of the Council of Ministers. The Prime Minister of Bulgaria, already resigned, should have had the courage and responsibility to face Bulgarian citizens and MPs, if not with his face, at least with his signature and to express his opinion on this negotiating framework. Realizing that Bulgaria's strategic interest in the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Western Balkan countries to join the European Union, our government, the government of Boyko Borisov, defined this issue as a major priority of the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. We signed a Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation Treaty with the Republic of Northern Macedonia in 2017. At the end of 2019 we asked our European partners to implement the Treaty in its entirety, such as the work of the historical committee, protection of the rights of Macedonian Bulgarians, suspension of claims for a Macedonian minority in Bulgaria and stopping the language of hatred to become part of the negotiation process and the negotiating framework! The French Presidency's proposal largely reflects Bulgaria's demands regarding the Republic of Northern Macedonia: First, the Macedonian Bulgarians should be included in the review of the Constitution of the Republic of Northern Macedonia after approval of the negotiating framework, but before the first intergovernmental conference Secondly, implementation of the 2017 Treaty in its entirety and the rights of Macedonian Bulgarians to become part of the negotiating framework. To monitor the negotiation process all the time, to be monitored by the European Commission and the Council of the European Union. In the negotiating framework, explicitly refer to the bilateral protocols implementing the Treaty, which will elaborately sign deadlines and commitments by both parties. The Republic of Northern Macedonia is expected to show a firm political commitment within the framework of the negotiations and ensure full implementation of key reforms and legislation on combating discrimination and hate speech. The Republic of Northern Macedonia's obligation to adhere to good neighbourly relations and regional cooperation is explicitly highlighted, for which the European Commission will report regularly to the Council of the European Union. We thank our European partners and friends for hearing us in 2017 and understand our concerns and comments that the GERB government stood for back then. The French proposal refers to bilateral protocols to be signed by both sides. These protocols are a de facto road map with specific commitments and stages that Skopje should implement. This draft protocol must be finalised, improved and signed by the Government before or at the same time as the approval of the negotiating framework. Under the Treaty, this Protocol is not approved by Parliament. Therefore, we MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS are ready with a draft decision to approve the negotiating framework, which we have already signed, which will guarantee that Bulgaria will not miss this historic moment and that the Bulgarian national interests will be protected. We invite all parties who hold Bulgaria's European and Euro-Atlantic position and believe in the European future of the Western Balkans to join and support this initiative. We demand that Kiril Petkov and his government finalise and approve the Bilateral Protocol immediately. Just as the Chairman of the Political Party GERB put his signature as Prime Minister of Bulgaria under the Council of Ministers' decision in 2019, when we submitted to the National Assembly the Framework Position under the Treaty of 2017, so today Boyko Borisov announced that GERB gives green light to the European path of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Borisov and GERB started this process. Borisov and the MPs of GERB-SDS will complete it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. You, Mr. Atalay? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To get into the transcript that my voice is for, and not against. To stay in Parliament's shorthand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u17	I think it's made sense, Mr. Atalay, but thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u18	It's really very clear, and it's good that it happened with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-22.u19	Honourable Members, the next regular meeting of the National Assembly will be held on 23 June 2022 at 9.00 on an additional announced agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
