ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u1	Please register. 124 registered MPs. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Under the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for the period 18 May 2022, the project is as follows: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Adopted in the first vote on 30 March 2022. 2. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 3. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investments signed on 3 October 1997 in Plovdiv, concluded by exchanging notes on 4 November 2021. 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the Standard Agreement on the Level of Service between the United Nations Office for Drugs and Crime, the Center for Corporate Applications, Vienna, and the State Agency for National Security and the Republic of Bulgaria, on the provision of information and communication technology services related to the installation and maintenance of the UN GoAML application, signed on 9 December 2020 for the State Agency for National Security and on 18 February 2021 for the Office for Drugs and Crime of the United Nations. 5. Draft Law on the ratification of the Second Amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Government of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Department of Defence of the United States of America concerning capacity for strategic air transport. 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the 3acon for marine spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. 7. Draft decision to oblige the Court of Auditors to submit to the National Assembly a final audit report on compliance in the conclusion and implementation of the Public Procurement Contracts of the Road Infrastructure Agency on the design, construction and operation of an electronic charging system for the use of a Republican road network from the beginning of the design of the system until the end of 2020. 8. Annual Activity Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2021 9. The first vote of the Bulgarian Language Bill is a continuation. 10. Reports on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020 and 2021 11. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition. This point is fixed as first for Thursday 19 May 2022. 12. Parliamentary control under art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, Friday at 9.00 p.m. including: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. Debates on the inquiry by the MPs Stoyan Taslakov and Nikola Dimitrov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Governance Kalina Konstantinova on the state of the Bulgarian Post Office; 12.2. Answers to questions and This is the program project. Please, voting mode. They voted 189 MPs: 122, against 41, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. We move on to the proposals that have been made in the order of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, a proposal was made to be included in the National Assembly Programme for the period 18 March 2022. Draft decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances related to the government's signed Memorandum of 1 billion. The dollar with Gemcorp and IP3 Corporation with motives for it. Please, voting mode. We are voting on GERB-SDS's proposal to include this item in the Programme. They voted 190 MPs: for 93, against 78, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote. We are revisiting the proposal of GERB-SDS. Voting mode. Vote 197 MPs: for 101, against 78, abstention 18. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] The motion is accepted. The point goes into the program. The next proposal in the order of art. 47, para. 3 is from the parliamentary group of party ARRANGEMENT as item third on the agenda of the week, respectively, to be item third for Wednesday, the bill for amendment and supplement to the Energy Act submitted by ARRANGEMENT. This is the proposal of fellow Members of the AGE. Voting mode. They voted 199 MPs: for 89, against 96, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u2	Honourable President, honourable Members, please, a procedure. In the Agenda for the Agenda today as a second point to enter the adopted proposal of the GERB-SDS group for the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the Study of the facts and circumstances of signing a Memorandum by the government with Gemcorp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u3	Your proposal is to move the program and be a second point in the Programme. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. Alexander Ivanov's procedural proposal is the point of the project of a decision to establish a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances related to the government's 1 billion-billion-dollar Memorandum. The dollar with Gemcorp and IP3 Corporations, which currently appears to be 11 unfixed, is to be moved to the Programme as point two. This is Alexander Ivanov's proposal. We vote on the proposal. Vote 202 MPs: 92 against 92, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We're revoting at Manoil Manev's request. Vote 201 MPs: 92 against 94 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. Before we go to the points of the Programme, I will read you the following messages: Since 24 May, Tuesday next week, is a public holiday and a non-working day for the whole country, proposals according to the order of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to include points in the forthcoming programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period 25 May 2022 will be possible until 18:00 on Monday 23 May 2022. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 64, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the sending of troops of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with state weapons, ammunition, equipment and equipment into the territory of Romania. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 16 May 2022, i.e. No 47-203-09-50, and granted to the Defence Committee. By letter of the Court of Auditors, No AD-47-224-008 from 13 May 2022 has been provided with information sent in April 2022 to the audited sites for final audit reports on financial audits carried out. The material is made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Audit reports on financial audits carried out have been published on the Court of Auditors' website. The National Statistical Institute received information on employees and average wage during the first 3 months of 2022, inflation and consumer price indices for April 2022, gross domestic product during the first 3 months of 2022, express assessments. Those were the messages. For the procedure, Ramadan Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, I am already uncomfortable to go out on this platform because of your persistence not to include on the agenda a bill and a decision that "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" we proposed two months ago with the clear aim of helping you, the rulers, so that you today may have one of those anti-inflation measures that you should have adopted by now. You are not putting it on the agenda because it is proposed by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I then invited all political parties to sign the bill. I am still surprised by Mr. Ribarski's tenacity not to sign the report and not to submit the report with which the Commission is examining the bill. I'm surprised at the perseverance of your energy specialists. They're no longer here in this room, as I can see. I don't know why you don't turn it on? If your goal is to steal the idea, we will cleanly and simply give up, we will give you the Bill, we will remove the signatures, but to leave in the hands of green energy producers 360 million, including another 1.5 billion of the unwarranted profits in those enterprises that do not put anything into their raw materials base, again and every day here to offer us points that are absolutely proinflationary and do not help your management, I am really uncomfortable to go out on this platform more. Be so good as to do everything possible to include this bill, to do so that inflation, as in all European countries is within 6%, since yesterday inflation statistics in Bulgaria are 14.5%. I'm done, Mr. Chairman. With my closure, if we do not look at this bill this week, expect next month 20% inflation and then you will be unnecessary for management. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u5	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. I'll keep that in mind. Declaration, Mr. Chakarov? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are making this declaration in order to draw attention to the government and Parliament's agenda of society, namely the universal crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, and the need for measures to overcome its negative consequences in all spheres. We need to do this because the government's agenda for 6 months has nothing to do with the agenda of society. Since the beginning of the management it has been entirely linked to private business and corporate interests. The evidence is therefore numerous, including the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan is also corporate with its agreements. Proof is also the fact that Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union, and not only in which the government does not apply adequate measures against the crisis, because it is committed to implementing measures related to private business and corporate interests. Only this week did the government talk about a package of measures against the crisis, pressed by the national protest of employers and trade unions announced on May 18th. However, the measures are yet to be discussed in the coalition, then will be voted on and eventually in July or August to start implementing them. But is it?! The war in Ukraine, which began on 24 February, as early as March in all the countries of the European Union and beyond, has already applied the first measures against the crisis. And at the moment, in a number of countries in the European Union, I stress, a second package of measures is being implemented and one is being identified in the long term. The Deputy Prime Minister himself and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev predicted recently publicly that the conflict in Ukraine would last at least 4 years, which means 4 years of military economy, but he said there would still be no drastic impoverishment. Does the Minister of Finance also live in Bulgaria, Asen Vassilev? Because for all of us, for the whole society, reality is completely different. A recent poll by the Alpha Research Agency showed that 89% of the government's policy to deal with inflation, the price crisis in energy and declining incomes is unsuccessful, i.e. almost all society feels affected by the crisis and the lack of measures and support from the state. A study by the "Trend" Agency reported on Monday this week that 70% appreciated the government's work negatively, and the studies by "Market Links" yesterday showed that 80% of the Bulgarians do not approve of the way Bulgaria is currently moving. Isn't it dramatic, dear Mr. Vassilev and all of you ruling, in the context of this global crisis, at the high prices of electricity and repeatedly appreciated foods and medicines at the moment, there is no support for our socially weak fellow citizens! Is it not dramatic that there is no support for pensioners, and a second extended package of measures has already been implemented in a number of EU countries! For example, aid for high fuel prices and low income families has been applied in neighbouring Greece since March, and pensioners are given 200 euros a month to compensate for expensive food. Family supplements for children were increased and aid for high electricity prices was paid. In Romania, the government introduced a ceiling of electricity and gas prices in March for a period of one year for both domestic consumers and businesses. Recently, Greek Prime Minister Mitzotakis also approved a second package of measures, which provides for the Greek State to pay 60% of the additional electricity costs back to each individual consumer from December to May. The minimum wage has already been increased and a summer supplement of 200 euros, similar to the Easter salary they were given. A second package accepted and applied the Italian Government. Because of inflation pensioners, socially weak, workers and employees and owners of single companies receive 200 euros each. The government also pays 25 cents per litre of fuel in order to compensate for rising fuels. Since March in Italy, the state has borne taxes and taxes on the electricity market and reduced taxes on gas. Is it not dramatic that in a survey from last week on a specialized agricultural portal 35%, i.e. more than one third of farmers, say they are giving up agriculture because the situation in the sector is unprecedentedly critical. More and more farmers close their farms and hand over their animals to slaughterhouses, 6 times the aid for tomatoes and 5 times the aid for cucumbers and pepper. Is it not dramatic that according to experts in the agricultural sector the main consumer basket in Bulgaria is already imported because the sector is in crisis, which has no analogue in the last 30 years! Is it not dramatic that all these facts about the agricultural sector show that there is already a risk of problems to provide food supplies of essential necessity in Bulgaria, as well as a drastic increase in food prices. At the same time, in countries such as France and Spain, protective buying-in prices of milk have been introduced and in France and Greece there are minimal buying-in prices of meat! Isn't it dramatic that there are no measures for tourism, which has a serious contribution to gross domestic product, and Greece and Spain are already implementing tourist packages that attract numerous tourists, including Bulgarians! Isn't it dramatic that there are no measures for the business from which the state expects revenue during the year! In addition to the so-called energy aid, there is no strategy for implementing measures of the economy by sector, and 11 of the governments, including France and Spain, have already removed or drastically reduced taxes on energy or VAT in the European Union in March! 13 countries have already limited wholesale or retail prices of electricity in March. In Italy, the state already took over taxes and taxes on the electricity market in March and reduced taxes on gas, and since the end of January there have been 20% tax concessions for energy-intensive enterprises! So how can our energy-intensive enterprises be competitive with them in this way! Isn't it dramatic that days ago, Greek Prime Minister Mitsotakis publicly said, I quote: "The government will support every citizen for as long as it is necessary. "....................................................................................... More than two months ago, we MPs from the DPS parliamentary group requested a hearing of Prime Minister Cyril Petkov in parliament to present at least intentions for measures against the crisis. We from the DPS have long held meetings with representatives of farmers, businesses and employers' organisations and we have prepared proposals with measures to support farmers, businesses, pensioners and socially weak fellow citizens. Today we continue to insist that the hearing of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov in Parliament will finally take place, because we believe that in the debate during his hearing it will be useful for both the government and for all of us to hear our proposals, and that other colleagues here in the National Assembly and the stakeholders may also take part, so that a useful discussion and debate would be extremely useful to predict and finally launch measures against overcoming the crisis. And we must not forget that inflation is galloping, and all of this will affect the quality of our standard of living. Unfortunately, the horizon ahead of us is not comforting at all. Urgent measures must be taken, for which we do not see adequacy. We call on really to be responsible and to the heights of our responsibilities and the challenges that are ahead of us! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u7	Thank you, Professor Chakarov. Now we move to the first point of the program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR MANAGEMENT BY THE EUROPEAN STRUCTURAL AND INVESTIGATION FUNDS. A report came in from the Budget and Finance Committee. I ask someone from the Budget and Finance Committee to present the report. Here you are, Professor Gechev. First for clearance, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u8	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I propose that, in connection with the discussion of the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, we allow under art. 42, para. 2 Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Manuela Milosheva, Director of the National Fund Directorate at the Ministry of Finance, and Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Director of the Directorate General of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u9	Thank you, Professor Gechev. I put to the vote Rumen Gechev's proposal for admission to the hall of Mr. Yaydzhiev, Mrs. Milosheva and Mrs. Ivanov. Please, voting mode. They voted 109 MPs: for 101, against 4, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall Mr. Yaydzhiev, Mrs. Milosheva and Mr. Ivanov. [[Relations of MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] That won't be necessary, Mr. Karadaye. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u10	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! We are also going to discuss a second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u11	Thank you, Professor Gechev. I am opening a discussion on the name of the Bill and § 1 and § 2. Peter Chobanov for speech. Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't see any government officials who are obviously not interested in this bill. But what to be interested in by being written in a very interesting way, which is an emancipation of the legal successes, approaches and skills of the ruling majority. What's this about? This law, even when we adopted it at first reading, was clear that it hardly makes much sense of it and is written in a way that does not comply with normal regulations. But anyway, we accepted it. We accepted six paragraphs, of which four dropped between first and second readings. So there are two paragraphs left, one of which, with a speech in a little bit by § 2, we'll see how it sounds. There are two paragraphs left. Between the two readings was proposed an additional paragraph by Mr. Vigenin, who made sense and could give some meaning to the Law, but in the Commission he was withdrawn by Professor Gechev. That is, proposed and withdrawn at the same time, with which the emancipation and evidence of the skill in law-making continue. Now let's turn to the specific text of § 2 and what it says: The Central Coordination Unit can be organized in the administration of the Council of Ministers, within the specialized administration of the Ministry of Finance or another ministry. Now let the lawyers from you, colleagues, perhaps Mrs. Miteva, who has a lot of experience in this regard, try to explain to me this text, is it legal and can it be organised in one place or another? That is, is it understood that it can be organised in both places at the same time as the distinction is placed after these first two texts? So, it can be organized in the Council of Ministers, in the specialized administration of the Ministry of Finance, that is, in both places or in another ministry. And who needs to be explicitly referred to here as the Ministry of Finance as such and there should be a distinction between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance. How is the Ministry of Finance here different from other ministries?! Why do we have to distinguish them, or is the Ministry of Finance a super ministry?! We must explicitly note it and change the regulations and then in every single law that speaks of ministries, explicitly separate the Ministry of Finance in order to give it this very important importance, which is given to it here in this law. In other words, couldn't this text simply say: The Council of Ministers decides where the central coordination unit should be organised..................... and from there we will have no opposition to ministries, we will have no legal uncertainty about what this text is about to say. In general, the proposed law is absurd, because from six paragraphs, as I said, four are dropped, and the other two do not make much sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Are there any lines to Peter Chobanov? I can't see. To speak, Christian Vigenin. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I use the case to say a few words on the title of the Bill, because the proposal that I had made was withdrawn in the Commission and correctly, because it is probably not in this law, it is not in this bill, but it is in the State Budget Act. I just want to mark the problem that I tried not to solve as much as to draw attention to it through this proposal to the Bill. In fact, the relations between Bulgaria and the European Commission on the programming period 2007 At the same time, it continues, including in recent weeks and months, to come up with decisions on financial corrections that have been imposed on municipalities or other budgetary organisations precisely in this period 2007. This, of course, is a problem which for some municipalities and budgetary organisations is becoming really serious, especially in the current situation. These municipalities have come their way. Many of them earn their cases at first and second instance, but on the third and last, it turns out that the new administrations have since passed two or three local choices, they have to pay such financial corrections, which are not foreseen in their budgets and are extremely harassing municipalities in this situation. In this sense, I think it is nice to try to find an adequate solution in the update of the budget that is coming next month to make such that those funds, which should otherwise, when they are paid, go to the central budget, where they are not actually envisaged. The central budget of the Ministry of Finance cannot predict whether these funds will be discussed to be paid by the relevant organisations, simply to be simplified, as in the next programming period there was already an opportunity to make the corresponding compensations for municipalities under such financial corrections. This was not possible in the first programming period. I don't want to go into detail, I just want to point out that this is a problem that we need to solve. The place of this decision is not in this bill, but next month we should try to do so with the update of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u15	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. A line from Peter Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Vigenin, yes, the text you suggested made sense. Maybe it was worth it here in the Chamber to have a real discussion on it, and so it shouldn't have been withdrawn, whether it was his systematic place or not, but that's how Professor Gechev estimated with his experience. We'll agree with him that he's probably right. The text is important, but perhaps here we should also give the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, which we have admitted to the House, and there was little need to play them after the other two paragraphs have been canceled, one of them, either way, nothing new tells us or nothing tells us the way it was written. But let them come out to explain what is the difference between what you, Mr Vigenin, are offering and what the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has proposed between the two readings of the State Budget Act in the Budget Committee and which has enabled similar relations with municipalities to be arranged. That is, whether this text is necessary or the text that we have proposed already settles these relations, because, according to representatives of the Ministry of Finance, it is formulated so as to enable it to refer to all programming periods, including the 2007 "2013" that you are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Second line from Manol Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Vigenin, there are other cases regarding financial corrections, because they already have a history for these 10 years, there are municipalities that have been subject to financial corrections since the first programming period and their projects have been phased out, meaning they used funds from the second programming period. Whether they were able to cover them through the budget or not, this should also be taken into account, and also how these relations will be settled with the managing authorities between municipalities. There's a lot of questions. That this proposal has been withdrawn, I don't think it's a problem. As Mr. Chobanov called on, it can be debated, so let us really have the political will to solve the problems of these municipalities and all the problems that may arise in the future with the financial corrections made so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u19	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Is there a third line to Christian Vigenin? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I use the duplicate to say that before I submit this proposal, we have discussed these issues with the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Then we talked about it with representatives from the central coordination unit. I am not convinced that at the moment we have a legal basis to allow such cases to be resolved, but I am addressing the representatives of the Ministry of Finance to really pay attention to this issue because it will arise when the budget is updated. I really ask them, in the time that remains until then, to propose an adequate solution to this, because, again, it affects not a few municipalities and budgetary organisations. We must make it possible to help them resolve the issues, especially for this programming period, as enough time has passed, and, as I have noted, relations with the European Commission have already been settled. Think about it. We will also work, but I think that the experts in the Ministry of Finance, especially after today's amendments to the Law, are the ones who have to offer the most adequate texts in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u21	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Anybody else want to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on the name of the Bill, § 1 and § 2. Both the name and the two paragraphs are by importer and are supported by the Commission. We vote 'em enbloc. They voted 139 MPs: 106, 33 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Nikolova, for an explanation of a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against the proposed amendment to the European Union Fund Management Act because another legal chaos has just been created in the management of funds. I'll tell you why. We have just voted that we are repealing the functions of the Central Coordination Unit to support the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister responsible for the overall organisation, coordination and control of the ESIS fund management system, and we have voted for the Central Coordination Unit to drop the activities related to ensuring the functions of the Coordination Council in managing the European Union funds. What's going on? Technically, from here on in accordance with art. 8 in the framework of the European Union Fund Management Act, we have a Council for Coordination in the Management of Funds, but at the same time we do not have a secretariat to perform these functions. I voted against because, within the framework of the entire law, what is seen is that out of all the proposed paragraphs there are three, of which one is the name of the Law. This somehow shows once again that the coalition itself does not know exactly what it wants from the proposed changes at first reading in the Law. I voted against because this law had to be discussed by the European Union Committee, and that never happened. It was not even assigned to this committee, where it is the essential function of all the envisaged changes to bills relating to the management of EU funds. I voted against because, within an existing system of management and control of EU funds, which is well-functioning, which is recognised by the European Commission, we have just created another chaos in transferring the coordination functions of the Central Coordination Unit to an office, which we do not really know which is the same. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Here you are, Mr. Nestorov, for an explanation of a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I voted against because this bill has once again broken down the claims of the ruling majority to deal with corruption. After this bill introduces every single state unit responsible for programming, management, audit and control of European funds, under the cap of the state's co-premier, then the concentration of power certainly raises doubts about corruption. I voted against. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u25	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. I don't see a third request for an explanation of a negative vote. I give the floor to Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, the next paragraphs are recognized by me. A proposal from the Council of Ministers. Under § 3 there is a proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev, made in accordance with Article 3. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Law. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected. Under § 4, there is a proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev, made in accordance with Article 4. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected. Under § 5, there is a proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev, made in accordance with Article 5. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Law. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected. Final provision The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the subdivision be rejected. Under § 6 there is a proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev, made in accordance with Article 6. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Law. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 be rejected. It was already about § 7, which was withdrawn. I can only say, as information from the minutes and from the Commission's meeting, the colleagues who are looking for a solution and Associate Professor Chobanov and other colleagues. It will be found in the budget update. We are talking about municipalities, because we are all of the same opinion that with these adjustments from 2007, 2008, 2013 and under the conditions in which the Bulgarian municipalities are having difficulties both because of the COVID-19 and because of the conflict in Ukraine, and caused economic processes, but according to the lawyers of parliament, the Council of Ministers and all experts, this solution to the issue must systematically be resolved in another law. So the solution to the issue of the financial difficulties of municipalities is not underestimated, but it will be resolved in another law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u27	Thank you, Professor. I am opening a discussion on § 3, § 4, § 5, the name of the division Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Honourable Members, I shall put to the vote the proposals of the leading Commission for the removal of paragraphs 3, 4, 5, the name of the sub-department and the withdrawal of § 6. They voted 129 MPs: for 107, against 21, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. This was adopted in the second vote and the Bill. We've exhausted this point from the program. Moving on to the next point, which is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR GENETICALLY MODIFICIATED ORGANIZMS. A report from the Environment and Water Commission on the first vote on the Bill has been received. I ask a representative of the Commission responsible to present the report. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms, No 47 202-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 April 2022. At a meeting held on 10 May 2022, the Environment and Water Committee discussed that bill. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mr. Toma Belev Deputy Minister, Mrs. Michaela Dotsova Director of the Department of Law and Mr. Valeri Georgiev State Expert at the Directorate of National Nature Protection. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by Ms Dotsova. It stressed that the draft was designed in order to bring national legislation into line with changes in European legislation in the field of genetically modified organisms. The proposed amendments to the Bill update the principles for carrying out a risk assessment of genetically modified organisms for the environment and human health when releasing them into the environment and placing them on the market in accordance with scientific and technical progress. Annex II to Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council should therefore be amended as regards the assessment of the risk to the environment by genetically modified organisms made by Commission Directive (EU) 2018/350 of 8 March 2018. The proposed amendments concern the methodology for carrying out a risk assessment, describing the general and specific considerations to be taken into account when carrying out the evaluation, namely: the intended and unforeseen changes resulting from genetic modifications; the possible long-term adverse effects and cumulative long-term adverse effects that may occur in the release of genetically modified organisms into the environment; the specific characteristics of GMOs that carry multiple modifications and the quality of the data on which the assessment is based. Changes are also made in terminology. The requirements regarding the formulation of the conclusions of the evaluation on specific risk areas for genetically modified higher plants are also amended. Another change to be made is the inclusion in the scope of the Law and the work with genetically modified micro-organisms under controlled conditions and in cases where it does not pose a risk to the environment and human health. The project also includes a change in the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, enabling the Minister of Environment and Water to issue a regulation defining the content, order, process and documentation, also necessary to establish and pay compensation for the damage caused by a brown bear and a Cormorant. There is also a change in the Law on Protected Areas, which regulates the payment of damages for damages incurred within these territories. Their size will be determined by a regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers. It is also proposed that the Order of the Minister of Environment and Waters to change the borders and the area of the reserve is included in Annex 2 to the Law on Protected Areas. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Attitude on the submitted bill took Mr. Shishkov, who stressed that the political party GERB-SDS will refrain from supporting the bill as the Transitional and Final Regulations change other laws, which should have been discontinued. On behalf of the Political Party, we continue the Change (Sultanova) expressed support for the bill, stressing that through its adoption one of the criminal procedures in the field of the environment will be terminated. Following the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 8 votes for..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u29	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion on the submitted bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u30	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u31	The way you're holding it, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A few minutes ago, and it has already been uploaded to the Ministry, the three opposition parties in parliament filed a request for your resignation as a result of the scandal you caused on Friday with the withdrawal of the chair of the GERB parliamentary group Mrs. Atanasova. In this sense, we insist on two things: firstly, this is our request, it is also so by the Rules, to look at it tomorrow and until the moment when you do not receive a vote of confidence from the National Assembly, not to hold the meetings, because that is the logic. You are already in the process of resigning, this is a practical vote of no confidence in you and until you receive legitimacy from Parliament, the meetings should be held by some of the other Vice-Presidents of Parliament at the election of the President. And I urge you to comply with our request to respect both the spirit and the law of the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u33	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Until my resignation is voted on, I continue to take the position of Vice-President of the National Assembly and, in this capacity, I have the right to lead the meeting. [[Noise and lines. Knocking on the banks by GERB-SDS. Commendations: "Resign! "]] Hey, guys, are there any people who want to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, I propose that the item on the agenda of the GMO law be withdrawn because it has not passed a vote in the Committee on Agriculture and does not have enough opinions. In addition, with this bill through the Transitional and Final Provisions, the Law on Protected Areas, where art. Art. 40, Art. 42 impose territorial changes in certain protected areas. I propose that the importers review the bill in order to make changes to the Law on Protected Areas, where these changes are subject to separate examination and voting, and not covered by the Transitional and Final Provisions of a joint bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u35	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Hey, guys, any lines? I can't see. [[National Representative Mladen Shishkov wants the floor.]] Mr. Shishkov, for a statement or for a point of order?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u36	I suggested we vote the point off.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u37	There's no way off the agenda, Mr. Petrov. There's no way we're in the middle of looking at the point. And there's no reason to drop out, there's a report from the main committee. This procedural proposal cannot be put to the vote. Here you are, Mr. Shishkov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As has already become clear, the bill provides for the transposition of European directives and the objectives of dropping criminal proceedings. In this part we from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ do not object, all the more so that the bill is prepared and adopted by the cabinet Borisov 3. However, we object to the changes to other laws, as it became clear just now, in the Transitional and Final Regulations. We do not underestimate the importance of the changes to the Law on Hunting and Game and the intended compensation for damages caused by a brown bear and a Cormorant. However, these changes do not correspond in any way to the basic texts of the Bill. Of course, both the change of borders and the area of the reserve, as well as the protected area, is no less important legislation, but it also does not correspond to the basic law. Dear colleagues, the change came with a strong request that the vicious in quotes legislative techniques applied by GERB will be stopped. For months in society, the thesis on bad legislation has been imposed and what we see once again the ruling coalition continues this supposedly vicious practice. For this reason, we from GERB-SDS parliamentary group will abstain from support, and we will submit a proposal between first and second votes if the bill is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u39	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Are there any lines? Are you here for a line, Mrs. Zarkin? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u40	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I would just like to point out the importance of the changes which are exclusively provided for in the Transitional Regulations, namely: there is currently no legal basis to pay the damages for the damage caused by brown bear and Cormorant. That is why it is necessary to make such a regulation as soon as possible, and this change will give the legal basis for this. Otherwise, the risks, on the one hand, are for farmers not to receive benefits but, on the other hand, to damage themselves to these valuable species. On the other hand, the changes in the protected areas do not take place at the moment with the Transitional and Final Provisions, and they have passed the entire regulatory path since 2018. With the Transitional-Customing provision, it is in fact their formal entry and the proper definition of the boundaries of the protected areas is necessary and is a basis for their effective management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Zarkin. Are there any other lines, colleagues? No. Mr. Shishkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Zarkin, thank you for the line. As I said in my statement, we do not dispute in any way the importance of the changes proposed in the Transitional and Final Regulations, on the contrary, I also believe that they are extremely important, and therefore they must find their systematic place in the relevant laws, i.e. to be tabled in the regular order. The fact is that this bill was passed by GERB's cabinet in 2020 and you had more than a year to reform the bill, to submit the basic law as foreseen, and the corresponding amendments to the Law on Protected Areas, the Law on Hunting and Game. However, the current Council of Ministers accepts it again without absolutely any corrections. Dear colleagues, the people have said: "Big Stone has cast a big word, don't say it! " In recent weeks, the coalition has increasingly debunked its own mantras on its own. It is also time for this mantra for the poor legislation of GERB to be debunked. It is time to admit that sometimes there is no other option but to bring changes to the Transitional and Final Provisions of other laws. There is nothing wrong with that and nothing wrong with it, all the more so that legislation allows it. It is also time to admit that the legislation of GERB is not only not bad, but also that it is well structured. Because, colleagues, most of the bills that have been adopted so far by the present National Assembly, however few they are, are prepared by the cabinet Borisov 3. Admit it, guys! Admit that once again you have made a mistake, it will make you feel better, and so you will work on an idea more calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u43	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? From GERB-SDS and then Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The mantras fell over how much they cared about the current coalition for the environment and for correcting the shortcomings in harmonisation of legislation with that of the European Union. As it came up, given that this bill was prepared in 2020 by GERB, it remained incomprehensible why it was waiting until now for this to pass a commission and to be adopted at first reading at least, even more so that one of the criminal procedures would be overcome, as the colleague before me said. The colleague Shishkov of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS has already mentioned the parasitic policy in quotes, which had GERB in the previous management and in the previous term "40th and fourth National Assembly for the adoption of different provisions in the Transitional and Final Regulations concerning other bills, which are happening not only now, but also in other cases, which are a kind of hypocritical government passing it. Obviously, however, there is a consensus in the ruling coalition precisely under such laws of amendment and supplement, but there is no consensus on other laws, such as the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection, which is, of course, waiting on a half-partner and we all want to see what is happening to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u45	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Hey, guys, any lines? I can't see. Mr. Kostadinov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u46	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to have to do a repetition at the beginning of some of the arguments that have been made here. It is really not right, especially in view of the fact that it was introduced as a bad practice by the previous governors of GERB to look at important changes in the legislation of our country in a way that is, to put it mildly, illogical. We are currently commenting on amendments to the Law on genetically modified organisms, which, however, will change the boundaries of reserves and protected areas. Provided that we have a Law on Protected Areas, provided that in the present case it is a very important case, because, if we have to go into details, the question of changing the boundaries of the reserve It was said a little while ago by MPs from GERB that this was proposed another 2020 and therefore was their bill. I have to ask, of course, here: why have you been waiting since 2012, however, because the coastal facilities in the bay, which have been crumbling for the past 10 years, have been waiting for repairs for almost a decade, in which their party basically ruled? But whatever. That's not the point here. Indeed, this must happen, it really must change the boundaries, it really must be repaired and the coastal facility there, because otherwise the sea will carry it away, it is already infinitely compromised and the value of its repair is getting bigger and bigger every day. I just don't understand why that is. Today I had a conversation with the Chairman of the Association for Tourism Development of Kaliakra, who have been struggling for years to restore the normal environment in the Bay of Bolata and regulate some of the madmen who were created in the old times with the introduction of Natura 2000. Because then, when the Natura was introduced in its first version, within Natura 2000 entered not only the parking lot of the Kaliakra fortress, but also the military unit of Cape Kaliakra, as well as the fortress itself inside, which could not be included, but anyway. Someone then had drawn very wide. It's kind of adjusting, but not everything. So when we talked to him, he said to me, "I can't understand the connection between the genetically modified organisms and the boundaries of the protected areas, and the transfer of the coastal facilities from the reserve to the protected area, but we support it because it's the only way to decide, since we've been waiting for almost 10 years for this lack of hibernation to end. Our appeal is one and it is very simple. There are specific texts within the Law on Protected Areas that just need to be changed, which we will gladly support and which, if they are not imported either by the Council of Ministers, either by one of the representatives of the ruling majority here, we will do so. However, we do not understand why this is necessary. Indeed, this was a vicious practice and even an honor made to some of the representatives here of the previous governing regime in Bulgaria, who said that it is not good that this practice with the introduction of certain texts through the transitional and closing provisions concerning others, having nothing to do with the competence and subject matter of the specific law to continue. It's just this practice has to stop. Because otherwise we continue to explain how we should do this, because otherwise it doesn't work. Somehow, it seems very illogical. It turns out that the state can't solve some absolutely simple problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Other speeches, colleagues, are there any? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, guests! This bill must pass in order to prevent a criminal procedure, but listening to statements, especially the opposition, I ask myself the following question: if it was tabled by the GERB 2020 government, why was it not adopted by the GERB government, which, as far as I remember, because I have also participated in these elections, worked until the end of February and the beginning of March 2021? So what didn't come to be handled? With regard to the additional provisions on the texts that you all agree are important and that they must pass, and why this National Assembly is looking at them in this kind of.............................. because they have been so handled, so agreed, so they have gone through the public discussion. If we had to end this practice in this particular case by amending laws through additional and final provisions of other laws, then we had to start the whole procedure over again. We would have wasted time on time, which, alas, knocked on the door on a number of criminal procedures against Bulgaria due to failure to comply with commitments due to a lack of harmonisation of the legislation, for which the wink here is delayed again to the previous regular management. These criminal procedures appeared then, at the same time this commitment was not fulfilled and the legislation was not harmonised. If you believe that these points of the additional and concluding provisions should not be handled in this way, between first and second readings, of course, you have the right to change that. But please, let's solve the problems. Bear in mind that harmonisation with European legislation provides us with guarantees for a better quality and clean environment, for better protection of people's health, including through this bill. And as for what happens to Kaliakra, there is not only a time of sleep, there are violations of the eyes of competent authorities. That's why we have to take out part of the reservation and transfer it to another category of protected territory so that we can meet certain needs that are local. But again, our government is not guilty of either the type of bill or its delay or what happened to Kaliakra, which is why we need to change the borders of protected territories at the moment. And as for the other part of the additional and final provisions, a worldwide practice established, the best way to balance human activity and wildlife, especially in terms of species that are shifted because of human activity into smaller habitats and therefore to similar raids on people's businesses, I am talking about the brown bear, the Cormorant, the best way to overcome this conflict is to compensate for the losses of farmers and fishermen. I therefore call on you to support this part as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u49	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u50	Mr. Chairman, I believe that this Parliament and, above all, the coalition, which currently rules Bulgaria, as well as the previous two parliaments, which have recently achieved life for several months, have come with requests that they will destroy the management model of GERB. This thing goes on to date. At the moment you have all heard a minister who comes, speaks and defends that they will continue the practices of 12 years of management of GERB. Moreover, they take a bill from GERB and import it in the same way to save time. I apologize very much, you manage six months before that half the Council of Ministers has managed for another six months. What have you been waiting for? The minister himself, at least that's his public appearance over the years, is a prominent ecologist. Another is the meaning of whether it is so, but that is his professional experience at least that we see. Deputy Minister Toma Belev was also a prominent functionary, prominent environmentalist, democrat, Democratic Bulgaria. At the moment he was also a adviser to Boyko Borisov, Deputy Minister! What have you waited half a year for this whole procedure not to go through so that we can go to committee and not go through the Committee on Agriculture, because the bill, just when you hear its title, it becomes clear that it is for genetically modified foods, and you want to change quite other things? The change in the management of GERB and their vicious practices does not go through this to become a minister of something more, Deputy Prime Minister, and to defend this practice, and to say: "Well, it is bad, wicked, it should not be done, but we will do it because we have done nothing for six months. We are now introducing this bill, and in the Transitional and Final Regulations we will change something that is not in the spirit of this bill at all. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines, coworkers? I won't. Any other comments, let me ask you again, is there? Mr. Cholakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u52	To join the general tone, Mr. Chairman. By the way, it's nice to think about Mr. Thomas Bikov's proposal. It's about the respect of parliament. To remind ourselves of something we talked about back in the Forty-Fiveth People's Assembly that when you start lifting the moral bar a lot, then you may not be able to jump it. It has been said many times last year, and before that one of the shortcomings in the legislative technique, which applies the National Assembly with the transitional provisions to amend laws that have nothing to do with the basic law, and this is currently being done in a flagrant way. Colleagues, if we want to raise Parliament's authority, Parliament must be the one to stop these practices, especially with the efforts of the majority. We don't see why we have to do a favor right now, because somewhere someone has missed something or somewhere needs some kind of correction, and give us an arbitrary law to bring in the Transitional and Final Provisions amendment and supplement to other laws to correct the error or to correct the miss. I don't see, Minister, what was it that prevented you from applying these amendments to the Hunting Act and the Protected Areas Act to submit them separately? Why do you have to blur and create, how do I say, bad feelings in folk representation and these changes that you want to make in other laws, just to do separately, to discuss separately, to be considered separately? There may be other gaps in the same laws that need to be corrected. So I really don't understand. I don't understand why it's done this way. What's to stop someone else from doing it? Tighten your administration, Mr. Secretary. If it has allowed somewhere gaps in these laws to be corrected, let them be corrected by a separate legislative process in the respective laws. I really ask for an answer: why do you do it this way when we can do it honestly, honestly and with a precise legislative technique?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u53	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there any lines, colleagues? Tatiana Sultanova. Mr. Cholakov, as regards your comment, respect for Parliament also includes compliance with the Rules, if I have to refer to what happened last week. Here you are, Mrs. Sultanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Cholakov, you are talking about moral standards and I would like to ask you: is it morally your government to make it possible for the European Commission to launch 18 criminal procedures in the sector at this time for non-compliance with the legislation, for non-compliance with environmental standards?! And you're talking about morals! Excuse me, but this targeted and very active policy against protecting the environment and the environmental components and the state to which the environment is currently being brought, and the crimes that have been committed against it for years now, is not what I want to say. You don't have any reason to talk about morals. That's what I'm trying to tell you. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova. Emil Georgiev for a second line, colleagues. Here you go. Mr. Shishkov, do you want the third line? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ganev, I think that when you go out on this stage, you should distinguish between genetically modified foods and genetically modified organisms. What you said about genetically modified foods is simply a delusion of the people who are listening to us right now. In addition, I cannot understand the colleagues from GERB on the one hand, you want us to give our hands, to work in the name of our Bulgaria. We are talking about a law that, under the circumstances, 2020 has never been able to enter. Now there is an opportunity to enter with the main goal of preventing criminal proceedings that took place before 2021. And now suddenly you say: we do not support it. Why? Because you're jealous? Colleagues from the DPS offer another law and they also emphasize the feeling of jealousy. There is no room in this room for jealousy when something is offered for the sake of good. Therefore, I also call on you to vote on this bill at first reading. We have plenty of time for adjustments to the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u57	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Shishkov, you have the floor for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Cholakov, it is good, when you talk about morality, to remind your colleagues that ultimately environmental protection activities are not an act of action for years, I would say decades. And each and every one of us, when talking about the environment, must realize that each and every one of us is leaving our mark on the environment. More or less like politicians, as citizens, as people in our everyday lives, we leave our mark and we have to ask ourselves what we do so that things don't happen that way, not blame each other. The more we try to transfer the ball from one to another, because we can by the same logic talk about the previous rulers, they can talk about the previous rulers and so the circle can never be closed. As much as we blame ourselves, we need each and every one of us to give the bill that each and every one of us, I repeat, has an environmental footprint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u59	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. For the doppelganger, Mr. Cholakov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u60	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov, for the line. I hope your colleagues heard you. Mr. Georgiev has actually made a reply to the previous one, not to me, so with respect to you, Mr. Georgiev, I do not know what to answer to you, but the colleague I made, I think, an appropriate remark on the issue that the transitional provisions of this bill change two other laws that have no relation to this law. I just made a note and said if you want to be a change, you shouldn't do that. I don't understand what it brings you when you say it, but that's what you did. What brings you? What's helping you? I mean, if you feel pleasure, do you improve in this way? I don't really get it. Because you know, I'm delighted to see your moral seizures, to watch you declare some things, and that's a very small example. I am speaking not only to talk here to talk, but because I really want to tell you that I am pleased to watch you things that you say you will never do them, do them every single day, and how your government does things that it swore it would never do them. That's the least of it. That's the least of it. And that's why my call is, if you want to change and you're the Change, you start here, take out these transitional provisions, and put them in as separate laws. Let's see if you can at least do this as a principle, because if you can't do this, you have no right to talk about principles, you understand? That's your problem. You have no right to talk about principles. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u61	Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Manol Genov, you have the floor. Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u62	Mr. President, I had no intention of speaking, of dealing with this bill, but I was pulled over by several of my fellow Members' speeches. I do not know what conditions some people are going into, but, Mr. Shishkov, you are an experienced MP, you know perfectly the legislative process and you can give an assessment of how the procedure and procedure of this law has happened since 2020. It has become clear from the explanations of Mr. Minister that this has all been going on. And I want to, Mr. Cholakov, it is not Mr. Kostadinov, I see that he is not going to make a meeting with the chairman of the committee or what was the process of "Tourism for Kaliakra" and you are going to meet him and explain to him what the dangers of the reinforcements are, that they can wait for more, can wait for one more process for one more law to pass, to be agreed, to go to public discussion. If you can really explain to him, I think he has enough conscience and morality in Minister Sandov to withdraw this bill. But I'm sure you won't explain it to him, because these people have been waiting for the solution to this problem for years, for years, because nothing happened there. As you have heard, as some here have accused, when Natura was made, when the protected areas were painted, even the parking lot got there. And if you know what condition the parking lot is in here the colleagues from Varna and who know the situation and the conditions for tourism there can explain it to you. So let's play here on false morals, call on them, let's address people's demands. And the other change is the Hunting Act, you are from Plovdiv, you may have heard that bears go to the Rhodope Mountains and other mountains. Yes, brown bears walk, attack animals, some of them, which, as we say, become baits -- one sheep, one pig, one horse, one donkey, one ox, and the state is powerless at the moment, as there is no legislative mechanism and regulation to compensate these people. Go and explain how we will divide those people who, in the future, hopefully, do not suffer such damage, as they say, but are damaged. I think it's not gonna be easy for you. It's gonna be hard for you, and it's gonna be pretty impossible for you. Thank you. So I call on all my fellow Members to do the really vicious practice that existed, and it has an inertial process, as you can see, and so these things have gone through discussion and through the Council of Ministers. So, colleagues, let us support the Law because it is necessary for the whole society in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u63	Thank you, Mr. Genov. - What's the line? Tsoncho Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u64	For a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u65	For a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u66	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Genov, I don't know what kind of games you're playing again, your party, I just want to point out and repeat, since you haven't understood or heard again. We are discussing a law in which no one has bothered to move it in the ministry for six months. I am sure that absolutely all the people who work in this ministry for years know about this problem, which is being put into the Final Regulations, absolutely everyone knows. But the management of this ministry, if until months or years ago it was involved in acquiring a million and a half for counting mosquitoes, had for six months the management to move this law to a completely different direction and to examine it in the Law on Protected Areas and there is its place for what we are talking about, and not for you to carry from nine wells of water and to defend the Democratic Bulgaria because it does not honor you. Because those people who are in charge of this ministry, not the people who have worked for years, six months have not moved forward public discussion or anything. We just heard the minister say he didn't have time. There's time! However, there is someone who should be working, not wondering how to set up non-governmental organizations to master once again grants of the kind of counting mosquitos. So keep at least you and your party somewhat silent. It is not your minister here to screw up, but to come from the Democratic Bulgaria and to protect this thing that is being done because they continue once again the vicious practices of GERB. That's what they do, and you're part of this thing, and you should've shut up. You're sitting here, your colleague, let's not give definitions whether it's adequate or not, to make a reply to another person, to Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u67	Mr. Ganev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u68	It's pointed at me. At least you should have kept quiet about that thing. Because you are the chairman of this committee does not mean that you have to defend that the minister and his deputy ministers for six months have done absolutely nothing, because Bolata has this problem, and GERB have slept through this problem, deliberately did nothing. And you are once again defending the Democratic Bulgaria. I was going to say Ukraine, but... [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u69	Mr. Ganev, if you please, with respect to colleagues, everyone has the right to speak as he sees fit, including your parliamentary group. Mr. Shishkov, come in for a line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Genov, thank you for the compliment. Just because I already have a stable knowledge of legislative techniques, I know that this bill could have been reformed and divided so that relevant changes to the Law on Protected Areas and the Law on Hunting and Game could be made. With regard to inertial processes, as you know, by Newton's laws, every action has its own reaction, at any time one such practice could be countered. Otherwise, it's about principles, not technique. Principles that you stood for at the beginning of the term and now violate them in the most outrageous way. Regarding what we have done for Kaliakra and for Bolata, I am also committed to the case for years and I assure you that, at the moment we were informed of the problems, all necessary procedures have been started to be adopted in order to be able to make the relevant changes. We didn't sleep through them on the contrary, we acted as fast as we could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u71	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Is there a third line? No. Mr. Genov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u72	Mr. Ganev, the line is for you. Mr. Shishkov and I agreed who was in what position, but you urged BSP not to speak. BSP has submitted a vote of mistrust to this particular government, which you are also criticising and accusing of vicious practices. As a result, responsible people from the Ministry's political cabinet fell into custody. I'm saying the arrest could be a charge, it could be anything. It's not a verdict. Then that government, with all due respect and power of regional inspections and all regional inspections at that time, 10 Italian carabinieri did more work when they revealed where the channels of unregulated imports of mixed waste came from in Bulgaria. And as to whether we defend the interests of the Democratic Bulgaria, these are the interests of the Bulgarian people, the Bulgarian people. So if "Democratic Bulgaria" and we supported it in these interests, as you accuse us, obviously in order to instill some things on our electorate, you do it successfully sometimes, sometimes you do it unsuccessfully. I will call on you, because you are kings of briefings, masters of tribunes in the National Assembly to go out and tell the people of Kaliakra we will not repair your reinforcements, the parking lot will have holes, you cannot get there with the cars. To tell the owners of domestic animals the bears will eat your flocks, eat your animals and the state cannot pay you because we did not support this law at second reading in the Chamber. So, Mr. Kostadinov, my appeal is to you....instill the wisdom of the whole group. You just said here from this stand that you would support the Law, so in society you have the face of a male, keep your man's word. As for what the BSP needs, I will stress once again, because Mr. Ganev said it twice and I try to say it twice, so that "Democratic Bulgaria" does not need the support of the BSP. Bulgarian citizens need BSP support when such laws are decided. I am very sorry that the debate has been shifted into the subject of the Transitional and Final. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm coming, Mr. Chairman. Because there are people here who know very well what the dangers of genetically modified organisms are, the dangers to human health, the dangers to people's lives, and that is not the case at all. We went along the lines of populism, who imported it, how it imported it, why it imported it, and ultimately the main purpose of this law is this. I'm not saying that what's included in the Transitional and Finals is not important. It is important, but the main weight and the main idea of this is to end the criminal procedure against Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u73	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Kostadinov, are you...? [[Relations from the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov.]] You know, technically, you have no reason to take... [[Relations from the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov.]] Although Mr. Genov addressed you, he didn't use insulting words to you, on the contrary. Mr. Kostadinov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u74	Mr. Genov, you must not have listened well. I didn't say we'd support this bill, on the contrary. Now that we're talking about a man's word. We have always said that laws must be respected. In this case you are raping the Law and we have said that not only we, it was said by several people, even you have agreed to this, even the Minister said that this is the only way at the moment because there was no time. However, we recalled that six months already this government has ruled this first. Secondly, one more thing to recall, Mr. Genov. You have shown here the last few months that whenever you want, I mean the majority in question, you can pass a law within literally three weeks, in the fastest possible extreme way. Should we now, at the moment when we vote on this thing, because, you see, there would be a criminal procedure against us, we should say that the laws in Bulgaria are voted on as someone outside would punish us. Immediately the question arises on the agenda: is Bulgaria then an independent country? And what exactly sets the priorities for which law to be passed or which law not to be adopted?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u75	Mr. Kostadinov, we're coming out of good tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u76	Yes, you are!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u77	We understand your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u78	On the contrary, I explain once again what every Bulgarian citizen should also understand at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u79	You're making a second statement, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u80	What you are doing is not right, it is not right that you surround the laws, rape the principles of Bulgarian legislation. That's what you're doing! And it's not really new, unfortunately, because it's been doing it for 10 years GERB. Both the argument and the argument did so, and we have no other choice at the moment. It's just not right, and you know it is. That is why we now tell you once again, because the last time you misunderstood me, we will not support it. On the contrary, we will support and offer in the Law on Protected Areas, we will offer what you are currently proposing here so that it can be absolutely legal. Maybe someone else can't appeal later, because I'm sure someone can think of an appeal. And he'll find his reasons, believe me. And it won't be one.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u81	To speak, Emil Georgiev. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u82	How was it, oh, my God, why don't you take some people's credit?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u83	Mr. Georgiev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ganev, I don't know if you know this, but I'm one of those people I've dedicated to protecting the environment a long, long time ago and I've suffered this cause, and my colleagues at the DPS know about it because of their favorite Ivo Prokopiev. Me and my colleagues stopped importing proms from Italy. [[Voices of ARGUMENT: "Eee! "]] This is the first minister, I am not defending him, who stood against the oligarchs "TPP" Maritsa Iztok 3" in Dimitrovgrad, which polluting the whole area, including Sofia, during the transfer of fine dust particles. Who are you protecting, I ask? Stop paying so much attention to your appearance, and when you come out here, don't demagogize! That's the truth. Environmental protection wants victims, wants action, not talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u85	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Shilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u86	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Minister! I'll be brief. To my respected Mr. Georgiev, Mr. Genov, I would like to remind you that if the Minister really was an environmental defender, he would pay attention to the village of Lozen and the insect, not to say that the case is quite different there, there would be some experimental station. I apologize that my reply will also be to Mr. Genov about the problems that GERB has been doing for years. Well, the problems, Mr. Genov, are that in four years there are more than 50 treatment stations, 3000 km of roads, 2600 km of water infrastructure and honestly I tell you, every time I move on the highway of Trakiya. [[Radio, laughter, noise and lines.]] Yes, that's right, Mr. Bojankov! Every year, hundreds of lives are saved. I'll tell you, you know why, Mr. Genov. Because of Plovdiv, asenovgrad, dozens of people died there each year. Who did this to your government?! Maybe Oresharski's sitter did it?! Who made Trakiya Motorway perhaps your government?! Thank you. [[Noise and lines, applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u87	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Mr. Genov, do you want the floor for a line? Is there a second line, colleagues? No. For the back, Mr. Georgiev, do you want the floor? No. For the procedure please, Mrs. Sultanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u88	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. I really ask that the debate return to the substance and that we stop the controversy on topics that have nothing to do with the bill under consideration. The bill is about the law on genetically modified organisms. I would like to ask you, Mr President, to ask your colleagues to come to review a bill, to prepare and read it, because the law on genetically modified organisms does not only apply to genetically modified foods. Therefore, please prepare well for the meetings. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova. Guys, are there any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Sandov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, guests! I will again remind you that this bill is harmonised. For people who do not have parliamentary practice and do not know the parliamentary order and legislation well, they need to know that passing a whole new procedure with public consultation will slow down this bill very much. The Ministry of Environment and Water has long passed this bill. The point is, it's not the only bill, and we've done a few more. We do prioritization depending on the degree of progress of the criminal procedure. I am very surprised that the Revival will not support this bill. I thought you were defending the interests of Bulgaria.! The interests of Bulgaria are currently this bill to pass and not the individual texts, which are for amendment to the Additional Provisions in the Law on Protected Areas and in the Law on Hunting, cannot be incorporated only like this, only with these amendments. We want to make full reforms, don't we?! We need to include more texts when we amend one law and not change one law several times a year, which is also bad practice. But if we are talking here about the interests of Bulgaria, in relation to this bill they are: to pass so that we can catch up the delay that is born. Also, the interests of Bulgaria are not because the European Union wants us to, but because the European Union is a place with the highest standards in terms of environment, human health and because the Bulgarian interest is part of the European interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u91	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. My fellow Members, I am putting to the first vote the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 27 April 2022. Vote 137 MPs: 109 against 16, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for your participation. Have a good day! Moving on to item three of the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND ON THE TERMINATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND FOR THE RESTRUCTURING AND PROTECTION OF THE DEVELOPMENTS REFERRED TO IN 3 OCTOBER 1997 IN PLOVDIV, CLOSED WITH THE CHANGE OF NOTES TO 4 NOVEMBER 2021 Importer is the Council of Ministers. Reports have been submitted by the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, by the Commission on European Union issues. Mr. Martin Dimitrov will present the Economic Policy and Innovation Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u92	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investments signed on 3 October 1997 in Plovdiv, concluded by exchange of notes on 4 November 2021, No 47-202-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 April 2022. At its meetings held on 20 April and 11 May 2022, the Economic Policy and Innovation Committee examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investments signed on 3 October 1997 in Plovdiv, concluded by exchanging notes on 4 November 2021. The bill was presented by Dimitar Danchev "Deputy Minister of Economy and Industry." The agreement between Bulgaria and Finland was concluded by exchanging diplomatic notes and ended the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investments. The position of the European Commission is that bilateral investment contracts concluded between the Member States of the European Union overlap and conflict with Union legislation. Since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the Commission has launched an initiative to end bilateral investment treaties. The Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that arbitration clauses in international treaties for the protection of foreign investment between Member States are contrary to art. Art. 267, Art. 344 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on ratification of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 7 October 2020. Several Member States, among which Finland, do not sign the multilateral agreement, but declare their readiness to proceed to bilateral termination of their investment contracts if there are such contracts with the other Member States. In August 2020, Finland and Bulgaria started working together to negotiate a bilateral termination agreement. Finland shall send a formal verbal note of 12 May 2021 proposing the conclusion by exchanging notes of an Agreement on termination. The proposed agreement terminates the 1997 Bilateral Investment Contract. 12, § 3 of the Treaty, which extends the protection of investments made before the date of termination of the Treaty for a subsequent period of time. This way, art. 12 shall not give rise to any legal effect after the entry into force of the Agreement. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results:................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the Promotion and Protection of Investments, signed on 3 October 1997 in Plovdiv, concluded by exchange of notes on 4 November 2021, No 47 202-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 April 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u93	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Colleagues, who will present the Report of the Commission on European Union issues? Mrs. Apostolova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investments signed on 3 October 1997 in Plovdiv, concluded by exchange of notes on 4 November 2021, No 47-202-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 April 2022. At its regular meeting held on 12 May 2022, the Commission on European Union Affairs examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the Promotion and Protection of Investments, signed on 3 October 1997 in Plovdiv, concluded by exchange of notes on 4 November 2021, No 47-202-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 April 2022. The Law was presented by Mr. Dimitar Danchev, Deputy Minister of Economy and Industry. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland is part of the process for the termination of investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union and is in line with the longstanding position of the European Commission, from which it follows that bilateral investment contracts concluded between the Member States of the European Union overlap and conflict with Union legislation as they discriminate against investors in the European Union on the basis of nationality. With regard to a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union that the arbitration clauses in bilateral investment contracts are contrary to art. Art. 267, Art. 344 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission have strengthened discussions on their termination and some Member States have suspended them bilaterally or unilaterally. As a result of the joint work between the Commission and the Member States of the European Union, a multilateral agreement between 23 Member States of the European Union was signed in Brussels on 5 May 2020, with which the participating States agreed to terminate their bilateral investment contracts. The Law on ratification of the Multilateral Agreement was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 7 October 2020. Finland is one of the Member States of the European Union, together with Sweden, the United Kingdom, Austria and Ireland, which has not signed the multilateral agreement. This requires the termination of the Treaty between Bulgaria and Finland for the promotion and protection of investments to be done by signing a Bilateral Agreement. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Finland notified Bulgaria on 16 November 2021 that its internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement on the termination of the Treaty had been completed. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the European Union Committee proposed unanimously with 12 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investments signed on 3 October 1997 in Plovdiv, concluded by exchange of notes on 4 November 2021, No 47-202-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 April 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Apostolova. I'm opening the discussion, colleagues. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, I'm going to announce a message. From 11.30 am in the Foyer of the European Corner will be opened a photo exhibition under the title: "Prime Opera performances of Sofia Opera and Ballet." The exhibition presents photos from classic premiere performances of Sofia Opera and Ballet. Photographer is Evgeni Stanimirov. All MPs are invited to the event. Colleagues, I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investments signed on 3 October 1997 in Plovdiv, concluded by exchanging notes on 4 November 2021, No 47-202-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 121 MPs: 120 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. For the procedure Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the Promotion and Protection of Investments, signed on 3 October 1997 in Plovdiv, concluded by exchanging notes on 4 November 2021, No 47-202-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 April 2022, to be adopted on a second vote, as no proposals for amendment and supplement to the bill were made during the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u97	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Colleagues, I am voting on Mr. Dimitrov's proposal. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investments, signed on 3 October 1997 in Plovdiv, concluded by exchanging notes on 4 November 2021. A single member. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the termination of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the Promotion and Protection of Investments signed on 3 October 1997 in Plovdiv, concluded by Exchange of Notes on 4 November 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u99	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote the name of the Bill and a single member. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The bill was passed in a second vote. Colleagues, I'm giving it till 11.50. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u100	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE STANDARD AGREEMENT FOR THE SUPPLEMENTARY WAY BETWEEN THE OFFICE OF NARRATORS AND THE CRIMINALITY OF THE UNIVERSITY (UNODC), THE CORPORATE CENTRE (ECAC-VN), AND THE AGENCTION OF THE AGENCY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, FOR THE REGULAR-COMMUNICATION SERVICES RELATED TO THE INSTALLATION AND THE SUBMISSION OF THE UN-GOAML AS REFERRED TO 9 DECEMBER 2020 FOR THE AGENCY OF THE AGENCATION AND OF 18 FEVRUARS 2021 Importer is the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022. Reports have been received from the Security Services Control Commission, the Foreign Policy Committee and the European Union Committee. By the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act, who will present the Report, colleagues? Mrs. Atanasova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u101	Before that, Mr. Chairman, invite your colleagues from the majority in the Chamber because I am making a procedure for admission to the plenary room of Mr. Stanislav Stanchev, Vice-President of the SANS, and Mr. Petar Todorov, expert at the Financial Intelligence Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I see there aren't a lot of opposition in this room, either. I hope the coworkers will be able to quickly...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u103	Mr. Chairman, do not comment on the opposition, because it is your duty to maintain the quorum and to be in the Chamber. That you, too, have no legal basis to conduct this meeting at all, is another matter. [[Relations from the parliamentary group of.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u104	Mrs. Atanasova, I didn't give you the floor for procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u105	Morally, excuse me, not legally. [[Relations from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u106	Mrs. Alexandrova, you are in the Chamber of the National Assembly. Do not use such a language, I ask you very much to use obscene words in the Chamber! [[Heckling]] Dear colleagues, I am voting on the request for admission of the gentlemen Stanislav Stanchev and Petar Todorov. For the colleagues who enter, we vote tolerance. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. That's how the offer is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u107	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe for a first vote on the discussion and voting in the Commission of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Standard Agreement on the Level of Service between the United Nations Office for Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Center for Corporate Apps (EAC-VN) and the State Agency for National Security and the Republic of Bulgaria, for the provision of information and communication technology services related to the installation and maintenance of the UN GoAML application, signed on 9 December 2020 for the State Agency (National Security) and on 18 February 2021 for the Office for Drugs and Crime of the United Nations, No 47-202-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022. At its regular meeting held on 5 May 2022, the Commission examined that bill. The meeting was attended by Mr. Plamen Tonchev, Chairman of the State Agency, Mrs. Tsvetelina Stoyanova, Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate, and Mrs. Tanya Miteva-Karakash, Director of the Legal Activities Directorate. The draft and the reasons for it were presented by the representatives of the SANS. They noted that through the introduction of the UN GoAML software product, it will improve the integrity of the financial system and its sustainability in terms of threats related to its use for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, and this will contribute to speeding up the process of obtaining, storing, exploring, analysing and revealing information obtained under the terms and conditions of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and the Law on Measures against Terrorism Financing. The draft Standard Agreement provides for the payment of annual fees for the maintenance of the GoAML software product, which include the configuration of the product to the needs of the financial intelligence unit of the Republic of Bulgaria, its servicing and maintenance after its entry into service, as well as the provision of training to end users. The agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Members of the Commission participated in the discussion on the financial framework of the bill took the MPs Desislava Atanasova, Nikolay Radulov, Hristo Terziyski, Svetlin Stoyanov and Nikolay Drenchev. In the course of the discussion it was pointed out that the fee for the first year was worth 145 400 US dollars and included installation and maintenance of the product. The maintenance fee for the next two years amounts to 58 600 US dollars per year. The funding of the annual entry and maintenance fees is provided under the Project with a beneficiary SANS under the 2017 Treaty, with the financial support of the Internal Security Fund co-financed by the European Union and the payment is foreseen for the period 2021. It is offered on the basis of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the text of the Standard Agreement not to be promulgated in the Official Journal. On the basis of the discussion held and after the subsequent vote, the Commission with 10 votes for the vote, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to take the first vote Draft Law on the ratification of the Standard Agreement on the Level of Service between the United Nations Office of Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Center for Corporate Apps (EAC-VN) and the State Agency "National Security" and the Republic of Bulgaria, on the provision of information and communication technology services related to the installation and maintenance of the UN application of GoAML, signed on 9 December 2020 for the State Agency of National Security and on 18 February 2021 for the Office of Drugs and Crime of the United Nations, No 47-202-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making the following procedural proposal: I propose a draft law for ratification of the Standard Agreement on the Level of Service between the United Nations Office for Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Center for Corporate Apps (EAC-VN), and the State Agency for National Security and the Republic of Bulgaria, for the provision of information and communication technology services related to the installation and maintenance of the UN application of GoamL, signed on 9 December 2020 for the State Agency for National Security and on 18 February 2021 for the Office for Drugs and Crime of the United Nations, No 47-202-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022, art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2. If it is supported by a first vote, I will propose a procedure for the adoption of a second vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. There has also been a report from the Foreign Policy Committee. Here you are, Mr. Antonov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Standard Agreement on the Level of Service between the United Nations Office for Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Center for Corporate Apps (ECA-VN) and the State Agency for National Security (National Security) and the Republic of Bulgaria, on the provision of information and communication technology services related to the installation and maintenance of the UN application of GoAML, signed on 9 December 2020 for the State Agency (National Security) and on 18 February 2021 for the Office for Drugs and Crime of the United Nations, No 47-202-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022. At a regular meeting held on 20 April 2022, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft for ratification of the Standard Agreement on the Level of Service between the United Nations Office for Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Centre for Corporate Apps Vienna (EAC-VN), and the State Agency for National Security (National Security), the Republic of Bulgaria, for the provision of information communication technology services related to the installation and maintenance of the UN application of GoAML, signed on 9 December 2020 for the State Agency for National Security and on 18 February 2021 for the Office for Drugs and Crime of the United Nations. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Vice-President of the State Agency "National Security" Stanislav Stanchev. The draft Standard Agreement has been approved as a basis for negotiating with Council Decision No 882 of 3 December 2020, with the Chairman of the State Agency.National Security.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. An expected result of the Agreement is the implementation of an effectively functioning specialised software system. It will contribute to speeding up the process of obtaining, storing, researching, analysing and revealing information received under the terms and conditions of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism. The standard agreement provides for the payment of annual fees for the maintenance of the GoAML software product, which include the configuration of the product to the needs of the financial intelligence unit of the Republic of Bulgaria, its servicing and maintenance after its entry into service, as well as the provision of training to end users. The fee for the first year is worth 145 400 US dollars and includes installation and maintenance of the product. The maintenance fee for the next two years amounts to 58 600 US dollars per year. The funding of the annual entry and maintenance fees is provided under Project BG65ISNP001-5.011-0004 under the name of the "Introduction of specialized software for the analysis of financial intelligence" with beneficiary State Agency "National Security" under the Treaty of No 812108-82 of 11 October 2017, with the financial support of the Internal Security Fund co-financed by the European Union. The subsequent payment of annual maintenance fees is planned to be provided within the framework of the National Programme of the Fund for Homeland Security and for the period 2021. The agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 14 votes for the UNODC, without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on the ratification of the Standard Agreement on the Level of Service between the Office of Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Center for Corporate Applications Vienna (EAC-VN), and the State Agency "National Security" and the Republic of Bulgaria, on the provision of services for information and communication technologies related to the installation and maintenance of the UN GoAML application, signed on 9 December 2020 for the State Agency "National Security" and on 18 February 2021 for the Office for Drugs and Crime of the United Nations, No 47 202 02 12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u110	Colleagues, who will present the report from the European Union Committee on Affairs? Here you are, Mrs. Dimitrusheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe to the Commission on European Union Affairs on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Standard Agreement on the Level of Service between the United Nations Office for Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Center for Corporate Apps (EAC-VN) and the State Agency for National Security (National Security) and the Republic of Bulgaria, on the provision of information and communication technology services related to the installation and maintenance of the UN GoAML application, signed on 9 December 2020 for the State Agency (National Security) and on 18 February 2021 for the Office for Drugs and Crime of the United Nations, No 47-202-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022. At its regular meeting held on 12 May 2022, the European Union Committee on Corporate Applications (EAC-VN) and the State Agency (National Security) (National Security Agency) "the Republic of Bulgaria," providing information and communication technology services related to the installation and maintenance of the UN application of GoAML, signed on 9 December 2020 for the State Agency "National Security" and on 18 February 2021 for the Office of Drugs and Crime of the United Nations, No 47-202-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022. The bill was presented by Mr. Stanislav Stanchev Vice-President of the State Agency. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Tsvetelina Stoyanova, Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate, and Mrs. Ivanka Mendova, Head of Sector in the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate. The draft Standard Agreement provides for the payment of annual fees for the maintenance of the GoAML software product, which include the configuration of the product to the needs of the financial intelligence unit of the Republic of Bulgaria, its servicing and maintenance after its entry into service, as well as the provision of training to end users. The draft Standard Agreement has been approved as a basis for negotiating with Council Decision No 882 of 3 December 2020, with the Chairman of the State Agency.National Security.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Agreement was signed on 9 December 2020 by the President of the State Agency "National Security" and 18 February 2021 by the Director of the Office for Drugs and Crime of the United Nations. The planned fee for the first year is worth 145 400 US dollars and includes introduction and maintenance of the product. The maintenance fee for the next two years amounts to 58 600 US dollars per year. In view of the fact that the Standard Agreement contains clauses for the arbitration settlement of possible disputes if there is no mutual agreement in Council Decision No 882 of 3 December 2020, it is envisaged that the Agreement should be signed under the conditions of subsequent ratification in view of the provision of Article 882. 85, para. 1, t. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Commission on European Union Issues proposed unanimously with 11 votes for the adoption by the National Assembly of the Law on the ratification of the Standard Agreement on the Level of Service between the United Nations Office for Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Center for Corporate Applications Vienna (EAC-VN) and the State Agency for National Security (National Security) and the Republic of Bulgaria, on the provision of services for information and communication technologies related to the installation and maintenance of the UN GoAML application, signed on 9 December 2020 for the State Agency (National Security) and on 18 February 2021 for the Office for Drugs and Crime of the United Nations, No 47-202-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrusheva. I'm opening the discussion, colleagues. For a statement, Mrs. Mihaylova? For a statement please come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Yesterday, the European Commission again informed the Member States that companies can continue to pay for Russian gas without violating EU sanctions against the Russian Federation. The sanctions do not prevent companies from opening accounts in a certain bank, including the Gazprombank, and they can pay for Russian gas as long as they do so in the currency agreed in their existing contracts. We leave aside the vassal situation in which we need the European Commission to drop orders to our country and our supposedly Bulgarian Council of Ministers voted them unanimously, including the representatives of the BSP for Bulgaria, who otherwise share in the media and explain a completely different thesis, but another question arises. Is the Bulgarian Council of Ministers capable, even if it understands these commands it receives? Even when the new payment scheme was announced by Gazprom, the government's reaction was that it would remain in the common position of the European Union and will take care of our community commitments, as much as we believe that this phrase was emptied of content, and the prime minister himself said that stopping gas is a problem between the European Union and the EU and Bulgaria. The new government of the supposedly Change has thrown Bulgaria into chaos with a series of crises. After the critical for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian business months with record high electricity prices, although in Bulgaria we produce cheap electricity from the tecs we have, and the nuclear power plant, which again the Community commitments did not allow us to use, came the gas crisis, which we have been warning about since February, and now we have a oil crisis, which we have also warned about. Since April 27, Kiril Petkov and his ministers have been running around in TV, lying without scruples, how Russia has stopped gas supplies to Bulgaria, and without warning, within 24 hours. There were a bunch of excuses why Bulgaria refused to open an account in the Gazprombank and to continue to pay in the currency of its contract. None of these excuses were convincing or adequate. Bulgaria is likely to take sanctions from these decisions as well. And while European companies are already taking action to maintain their gas supplies, the Bulgarian government negotiates purchases of the same gas, but through middlemen at a higher price. How is this profitable for Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian people? If you have an answer, we don't have one. According to data from Bloomberg, 20 European companies already have accounts in Gazprombank and more have submitted an application. Companies such as the Italian Eni and the OMV will switch to opening accounts in rubles and euros at the Gazprombank, while Kiril Petkov says proudly that we will not succumb to this blackmail. Next to him, Mr. Vasilev loudly announced that if someone declared war on us, they should be ready for our retaliatory strike. And the response of these two gentlemen is aimed not at Russia or any other, but only at the Bulgarian citizens. The Bulgarian people are impoverished every day. Gas rose by 138% per year and gasoline and diesel by nearly 45%. The price of electricity for business has reached record levels, the increase in food prices is more than 21% record over the past 14 years. Oil has risen by 43%, the bread by 24%, milk products by 21%, the prices in agriculture have risen by more than 70%, of which fertilizers by the record 153%. Inflation reaches 14.4% according to the NSI so far, by the end of the year forecasts are that this could double. And while the hard to understand and reproduce meaningful speech Bulgarian ministers, supposedly Bulgarian ministers expect in the long-term solutions to deal with their problems to be dictated by the European Commission, or perhaps the United States of America, it may not remain Bulgaria. We have taken trust from this inadequate and harmful government since rebirth. We believe that their best move is to resign today, and for the salvation of Bulgaria, it must govern the restoration! [[Loud noise and lines. Laughter from.. We continue the Change. Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, for procedure. I hope you won't take any account of Mrs. Mihaylova's statement. [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] No, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of holding.. I address you as through the instruments of the Rules of Organization and the activities of the National Assembly, I mean the declaration by a parliamentary group, is used for full suggestions and lies by the AGE group. I understand that if someone is on commission from Russia and insists on using Russian gas, which is not bad in general, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u116	To me the procedure, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u117	Yeah, it's procedure for you, but I have to argue it anyway. And given that in the position that the European Union expressed yesterday, it is very clear that payment should be based on the currency that is under contract...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u118	Mr. Ananiev, please don't concern yourself with the declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u119	As you know, in Bulgaria the payment was in dollars, so a complete lie of rebirth and suggestion... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u120	Mr. Ananiev... Nassimir Ananiev...again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u121	...I'll take your word for it! [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u122	Please make a note of the birth, as they allow themselves, first, to insult Bulgarian ministers and also to use lies in their declarations. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u123	Mr. Ananiev... [[Loud noise.]] Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u124	Mr. Chairman, I hope you've just understood why the opposition wants your removal because of very simple things. Unlike the President of the National Assembly, you are very clear and specific: the opposition in the corner
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u125	Mr. Ganev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u126	...to stand up and make suggestions...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u127	...with respect to his fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u128	...to comment on rebirth. I ask you very much at least at this time, when there is a procedure against you, to follow the order. And as soon as such compromised individuals start insulting an entire parliamentary group, behind which tens of thousands of voters sit, take his word immediately and tell him it's not on the floor where it usually rolls. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u129	Mr. Ganev, no matter how much you suggest that I push the opposition into the corner, do an analysis of the two statements of Mr. Ananiev and yours. You cannot treat your fellow Member with sincere insults, Mr. Ganev. I warned Mr. Ananiev, and I was going to take the word away from him. For procedure? [[Noise and lines.]] Before you there is Mr. Georgiev, Lord Cholakov, then Venko Sabrutev and then you. Mr. Cholakov for procedure, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u130	Actually, I wanted to say almost the same thing Mr. Ganev said, Mr. Chairman. Last week in exactly the same situation you took the floor of the chair of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS during which you pronounced a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group that was important. You didn't have the generosity to give another minute as much as it needed to be finished. Then you gave the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, and that is where the scandal started, as a result of which you are currently being asked for your resignation, and rightly so, because for similar statements of chairmen in the previous Parliament, this was the case. [[Noise and lines.]] The procedure is for him. Never interrupt the opposition when making a declaration on behalf of a group. One minute, a minute and a half more, you won't be able to hear anything, you can hear something. And never give a procedure that turns into a replica to a political declaration. Your reply to a political declaration is expressed in actions, not in criticism of our opinion. Our opinion is what it is. You must by action show that what the opposition speaks is not true. Unfortunately, everything the opposition says is true, and you have nothing left but to shout from the parliamentary stand. Sorry, guys, that's not how you do it! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u131	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Because the procedure is in the manner of conduct, and I will say two words in response to Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Cholakov, you express your personal opinion that the request for my resignation is justified, and you yourself, with your statement, clearly show that you do not know at all and are not familiar with the situation that has developed last week because you say that I did not allow Mrs. Atanasova to complete her declaration. That's not true! I gave three minutes on top! The word was taken to Mrs. Atanasova during a procedure and was taken in a minute and forty seconds. Have you noticed how long Mr. Ananiev has been speaking? There wasn't a minute! So your analogies are absolutely unfounded. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] For the procedure Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is for you. I suggest you impose punishment on the MP Tsoncho Ganev for the two insults he has committed to Mr. Ananiev. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u133	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Mr. Tsoncho Ganev has been warned and will be punished today. The fact that there is a procedure for my resignation will not embarrass me at all to do so. I'm not gonna cave under the pressure of the opposition. Let them import as many requests for resignation as they want. [[Noise and lines. Claps by "Keep On Changing."]] Mr. Angel Georgiev wanted the floor for the procedure. [[The National Representative Ramadan Atalay wants the floor.]] You too, Mr. Atalay? Okay, you're after Mr. Angel Georgiev. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u134	Dear Mr. still acting Vice-President of the National Assembly! Today you have shown a classic example of double arsin. When someone from the opposition comes out, he gets a say, but when one of the government comes out, he lets himself speak calmly, makes a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u135	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u136	Now you're replicating me from a place that the esteemed Vice-President will also act as if he didn't see it. You use words as a lie, which he himself repeatedly calls not to be used. Perhaps, however, for your parliamentary group there is an exception. And in the end, what you are doing is absolutely breaking the rules and showing that for your people you can do anything, but for the opposition you can't. My question is this: will you do from here so that everyone who fits in a minute and 40 seconds, as you said before, can do any lines on the substance no matter what it says in the Rules, because you have already allowed it once and respectively everyone who crosses a minute and 40 seconds, to take his word immediately. Or again, for the third, fifth or seventeenth time, will we see how your parliamentary group and your ruling coalition do not take the floor, but take the floor of all the others who are opposition?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u137	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u138	How could it not be true, please! You're replicating again. We have a classic example of a two-faced leadership of the National Assembly, not as it is under the Rules, and not as it requires change, not as it enjoins a democratic coalition which the Bulgarian people have placed at the moment in a management position in the National Assembly. So please take action or just resign. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u139	Thank you. Mr. Georgiev, I specify that for less than a minute I interrupted two or three times Mr. Ananiev. I warned him that I would take his word and I would have done it if he hadn't stopped his speech. Were you in the room when the events took place to claim that there was a double archine, Mr. Georgiev? Well, let's be objective. Mr. Atalay, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure, fellow Members, is that it is very bad when the ruling party puts the watermelon crust on the elected vice-president of parliament. There is no way, fellow Members, to read a declaration from this tribune and subsequently to take account of this declaration. This is an unwritten rule in all parliaments, not only in the Bulgarian Parliament. But to come out Mr. Ananiev after such a declaration, to try and in any way to make sure that the PP are in an awkward situation and at the moment to wonder how to get out of this situation, and you are putting the Vice-President in an awkward position. And that's why, Mr. Vice President, this isn't the first time you've done this. Give the seat to the President of Parliament so that we can start working. And afterwards, if you resign yourself, you'll do a lot more good to everyone. But first get Mr. Ananiev out of your parliamentary group. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u141	Thank you, Mr. Atalay, for your advice. Petar Petrov for procedure, Iskren Mitev too. And I hope at some point we can get back to the agenda, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will not allow myself to comment on the request for your resignation. I would like to make you a proposal with a view to holding the plenary session. For my modest parliamentary experience of just over five months, I have noticed one thing I call subtlety in the conduct of the sitting itself as a cashier's declaration. When reading declarations, especially from the opposition, it is my impression that immediately afterwards attempts are made to make statements on the substance. It was once even given by another presiding right to a personal explanation after a read declaration. My conclusion is that the declarations in the Bulgarian Parliament seem to provoke a lot of temperament in the MPs, I also refer to the already imposed remarks in this regard. And obviously, if, as chairmen of you and your colleagues, initially, you do not allow attempts to say, for provocation after reading a declaration, I believe that we will then avoid some rather unpleasant procedures that have been charged and now one after the other. For example, if, in this subtlety, which I call, after a statement has been read, you show, how to say, a sharper attention to the requested word by a Member of the National Assembly and you show a slightly more rigorous attempt to make a statement on the ground, I simply believe that we will prevent and avoid quite unpleasant cases after that the accusations followed to you, and so on. It's just a constructive proposal to you, Mr. Chairman. Please take it as well as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u143	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. That's how I accept it. Mr. Mitev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the way of leading you, contrary to what my fellow Members have said, of course, in the direction that you are unfair. On the contrary, I think you treat it as strictly and fairly as it should be. Here's a specific example. Mrs. Iskra Mitrofanova is coming out. [[noise and raging]] I'm sorry, Mihailova...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u145	Mr. Mitev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u146	...and protects Russian interests from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u147	Mr. Mitev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u148	And then comes a colleague of hers and tells you that you abused your authority. Isn't it an abuse of power when the same Iskra Mitrofanova a few days ago waved her card to the police...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u149	Mr. Mitev, one more time and I will punish you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u150	...so she wouldn't get arrested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u151	Mr. Mitev, one more time and I will punish you, as I warned Mr. Tsoncho Ganev. Mr. Taslakov, you too for procedure? Just so you know, the compromises are over. Anyone who disrespects a colleague has already received direct punishment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u152	Thank you. Absolutely not, Mr. Chairman. Don't listen to those before me who took the procedures. We are extremely pleased with you and your actions, your leadership. Keep taking away the opposition's word, keep giving your word to the rolling on the floor after our declarations. The longer you stay in your position, the higher the rates of rebirth will rise. So don't give in, we're counting on you! Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u153	Okay, Mr. Taslakov, thank you. Colleagues, are there any willing to speak on the bill? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, I vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Standard Agreement on the Level of Service between the United Nations Office of Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Center for Corporate Apps, Vienna (EAC-VN), and the State Agency of National Security and the Republic of Bulgaria, on the provision of information and communication technology services related to the installation and maintenance of the UN application of GoAML, signed on 9 December 2020 for the State Agency of National Security and on 18 February 2021 for the Office of Drugs and Crime of the United Nations. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Please, voting mode. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. That's how the offer is accepted. For the procedure, Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u154	Thank you. I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, and since there were no statements or feedbacks on the proposed bill, to put to the second vote the Law on ratification of the Standard Agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues, I'm voting on the procedural proposal. They voted 145 MPs: 141, against 2, abstention 2. That's how the offer is accepted. [[National Representative Milen Mateev wants the floor.]] Mr. Mateev, for procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u156	Mr. Chairman, Members of Parliament, I am proposing the term of art. 49, para. 1 of the Rules of Amendment and Supplement to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Recognition, Implementation and Delivery of Measures for the Protection of Property, No 47-202-01-16, with an importer, the Council of Ministers of 31 March 2022, which expires today, shall be extended by five days.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u157	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Is there a reverse opinion, colleagues? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Mateev. Vote 117 MPs: 116, against no, abstention 1. That's how the offer is accepted. Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor to present the bill at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u158	Thank you. LAW on the ratification of the Standard Service Agreement between the United Nations Office for Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Center for Corporate Applications (EAC-VN), and the State Agency for National Security (National Security), the Republic of Bulgaria, for the provision of information and communication technology services related to the installation and maintenance of the UN application of GoAML, signed on 9 December 2020 for the State Agency (National Security) and on 18 February 2021 for the Office for Drugs and Crime of the United Nations, No 47-202-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022. Art. 1. It ratifies the Standard Service Agreement between the Office of Drugs and Crime of the United Nations, the Center for Corporate Applications of Vienna, and the State Agency of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria on the provision of information communication technology services related to the installation and maintenance of the UN GoAML application, signed on 9 December 2020 for the State Agency of National Security and on 18 February 2021 for the Office of Drugs and Crime of the United Nations. Art. 2. Orders on grounds of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the Agreement under art. 1 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I'm opening a discussion. Hey, guys, are there any people who want to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I shall put the name of the bill to the vote, art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, as read by Mrs. Atanasova. Vote 156 MPs: for 156, against and abstention there is no. With this, the bill was passed in a second vote. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATE OF THE SECOND CHANGE OF THE MEMORANDUM FOR THE RESTRUCTURING BETWEEN THE MINISTERATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE MINISTERATION OF THE NATIONAL DEFENCE OF THE REPUBLIC OF EUTONIA, THE MINISTERY OF THE DESTROY OF THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND, THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY, THE MINISTERATION OF THE NATIONAL DEFENCE OF THE REPUBLIC OF LITANA, THE MINISTER OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE KINGDOM OF THE KINGDOM, THE MINISTERATION OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE KINGDOM OF NOREGIA, THE MINISTER OF THE NATIONAL DELECTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND, THE MANAGEMENT OF RUMANSION, THE MINISTER OF THE DESTRUCEMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF SUCH REPUBLIC, AND THE MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF SUCHATION AND THE DESTRUCTION OF THE APARTMENT OF AMERICA. Importer of the Council of Ministers of 6 April 2022 A report came in from the Defence Committee. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov, to present the Report. Do you have the text? Yeah. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Second Amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Government of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Department of Defence of the United States of America concerning strategic air transport capabilities, No 47-202-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 April 2022. At a meeting held on 21 April 2022, the Defence Committee examined that draft. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the Minister of Defence Mr. Dragomir Zakov. The Memorandum on Strategic Air Transport capabilities governs the acquisition, management, maintenance and operation of C-17 aeroplanes and other assets necessary to meet the national needs of participating countries, including those in support of NATO and multinational commitments. Airplanes C-17 and assets cannot be used for commercial purposes or controlled by commercial organisations. According to the Memorandum, NATO owns the aircraft and maintenance equipment acquired under the initiative, and the participating States exercise the rights to use them and are responsible for all obligations arising from the operation of the aircraft. The daily activities of the management of the aircraft acquisition, use and maintenance processes are carried out by the executive body of the NATO Air Traffic Management Agency. The document adapts in terms of terminological and functional terms to the structural reform of NATO agencies. The Treaty introduces a change in the Memorandum relating to fixed expenditure under the Programme. The acquisition and management of aircraft requires financing of the so-called Fixed costs and Operational costs. With regard to their determination, the principle is introduced that assessment of value is made on a case-by-case basis and the process is carried out at the level of executive structures within the Programme. Another important change is the admission of the possibility of applying STANAG 3113. This is a NATO procedural document which will allow the use of assets under the Memorandum, which are based on the deployment of the aircraft of the city of Papa, Hungary, and of other member states of the Alliance, for strictly defined purposes and when paying the costs. From a legal and technical point of view, in order to facilitate the use of the document, it is decided by the Participating Parties to replace the whole text of the Memorandum with an updated version. In view of this, after its entry into force, the Second Amendment will constitute an Integrated International Treaty which will regulate the relations of the participating States under the initiative, replacing the Memorandum and its First Amendment. Chairman Atanas Zafirov and Vice-President Nikolay Drenchev took part in the discussion on the financial framework of the bill. Following the end of the discussion, a vote was held in which, with 15 votes for the defence committee, without the defence committee of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Government of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Department of Defence of the United States of America concerning strategic air traffic capabilities, No 47-202-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 April 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u161	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Honourable Members, I submit to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Second Amendment to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Government of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Department of Defence of the United States of America concerning the capabilities for strategic air transport. First vote. Voting mode. They voted 114 MPs: 106, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a proposal that the bill which has just been adopted to ratify the Second Amendment to the Memorandum of Understanding, not to read it all, to proceed to a second reading of the same bill. There are no proposals made, there are no votes against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u163	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I put to the vote Philip Popov's procedural proposal to proceed to a second vote on the bill. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I propose for a second vote: LAW on the ratification of the Second Amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Government of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Department of Defence of the United States of America concerning the capacity for strategic air transport A single member. The second amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Government of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Department of Defence of the United States of America concerning the capacity for strategic air transport, signed by the Bulgarian side on 1 September 2020 in Sofia. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u165	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. I am opening a discussion on the name of the bill, article one, the name of the section "Concluding provision" and the only paragraph that is in the Final provision. Is there anyone who wants to speak? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the second vote the name of the bill, article one, the name of the section "Locking provision" and the only Final provision, paragraph one. We vote them anblok, as presented by the Chairman of the Defence Commission Atanas Zafirov. They voted 106 MPs: 95, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. [[(Reply from the parliamentary group of the DPS:]] Revoting at the request of the DPS parliamentary group. They voted 104 MPs: 95, none, abstentioned 9. The proposal has been adopted, and the Second Voting Bill has also been adopted. We move on to the next point of the National Assembly's Work Programme, namely: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADcompLIVERY OF THE 3ACON ON MARITIME SPACES, INTERNAL WATER ROADS AND PORTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. A report came in from the leading Committee on Transport and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! First, I suggest that we give you access to the hall of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Maritime Administration (Maritime Administration) Captain Ventsislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u167	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Borislav Gutsanov's procedural proposal to allow Mr. Ivanov to enter the Chamber. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite Mr. Ivanov to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and Ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 47-202-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2022. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport and Communications, held on 12 May 2022, a bill was discussed to amend and supplement the 3acon for maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 47 202 01 17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2022. The meeting was attended by Mr. Vladimir Varbanov Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova Director of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and Mr. Ventsislav Ivanov Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration. The bill was presented by Ms. Krasimira Stoyanova, who stated that the draft proposed transposition into the Bulgarian legislation of provisions of Directive (EU) 2019/883 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on port reception facilities for the transmission of waste by ships to amend Directive 2010/65/EU and repealing Directive 2000/59/EC. Part of the proposed provisions of the Bill regulate at national level the principles adopted in the European Union for the determination of port charges for the acceptance and handling of ship-to-ship waste or ship-to-ship waste, as follows: - the amount of the fee shall be such that it does not encourage the disposal of waste at sea in the Danube River, respectively; - the charge must cover indirect administrative costs and a significant proportion of direct operating costs as defined in Ordinance No 9 of 17 October 2013 on the requirements for the operational suitability of ports and specialised ports, which must be at least 30 percent of the total direct costs for the actual transfer of waste during the previous year; - the amount of the fee may be different depending on the category, type and size of the ship, the services provided to ships outside the established working time at the port or the danger that the waste represents; - the fee may be reduced depending on the type of commercial activity for which the ship is used, for example, in carrying out commercial maritime transport over short distances or where the ship's construction, equipment and operation prove that it generates reduced quantities of waste that are managed in a sustainable and environmentally-friendly manner. In the draft law is a provision which provides for the fee to be paid for all ships visiting or operating in the Bulgarian port, whether or not a port reception facility has been used, which is why the fee is indirect. The bill also regulates the release of a vessel owner from payment of the fee. These are the cases where the conditions for the ship to carry out regular transports relating to frequent and regular visits to Bulgarian sea ports and for the owner to have an agreement on the transfer of waste and payment of the relevant charges in a port along the ship's route are fulfilled at the same time. It is intended that the persons collecting the port charge should be those who can make an exemption from its payment. At the same time, other provisions of the Bill determine that the part of the costs which is not covered by the fee, if any, is to be paid on the basis of the types and quantities of waste actually transferred by the ship. With the supplement of the Order of Art. No. 104, para. 3 The circle of persons who can make proposals and participate in the activity of introducing international and European standards for safety and quality management, environmental protection and personnel requirements in ports as Bulgarian standards is extended. In this respect, a State-owned enterprise is also added. It was pointed out by the importers that the need for this legislative proposal stems from the fact that the State-owned Port Infrastructure (port infrastructure) operates state ownership in public transport ports and as the Managing Authority of the ports under art. 106a of the Law. The Bill also refines and complements separate texts of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Seaspaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill also provide for a change of the Code of Commercial Shipping, the objective being to comply with the current terminology laid down in Directive 2019/883. The provisions of the Code relating to the penalty for the master of a vessel which does not send or send false information about the type and volume of the waste shall also be repealed. Changes to other laws are also envisaged in order to bring them into line with this. 2 and 3 of the National Assembly Decision of 13 December 2021 adopting the structure of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, where the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria 3 The transformation of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications in the Ministry of Transport and Communications is envisaged. In the course of the debates on the Bill spoke the MPs Borislav Gutsanov, Zlatomira Mostrova and Blagovest Belev. The provisions of the Draft Law relating to the definition and amount of the fee for acceptance and handling of waste were the result of shipping activities. In this direction, a question was also asked to importers whether the adoption of the Bill would lead to an increase in the amount of the fee to be paid for each vessel visiting or operating in the port concerned. The texts which indicated the payment of an indirect fee as one of the main principles in determining the fee for acceptance and handling of waste were also discussed and the result of shipping activities and whether it is consistent with the Ministry of Finance. The question was also raised as to whether there is a legal definition of the concept of maritime transport of short distances in the legislation relating to shipping. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport and Communications with 13 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria and 2 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the 3acon for maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 47-202-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u169	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. There is also a report from the Environment and Water Commission. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and Ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 47-202-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2022. At a meeting held on 10 May 2022, the Environment and Water Committee discussed that bill. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Vladimir Varbanov Deputy Minister, Mr. Ventsislav Ivanov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova Director of the Department of Law and Waters: Mr. Toma Belev Deputy Minister, Ms. Mihaela Dotsova Director of the Directorate of Law and Mr. Valeri Georgiev State Expert in the Directorate of National Nature Protection. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Varbanov. He stressed that the Bulgarian legislation introduced certain provisions of Directive (EU) 2019/883 on port reception facilities for the transmission of ship waste, amending Directive 2010/65/EU and repealing Directive 2000/59/EC. The change regulates at national level the European principles for the determination of port charges for the acceptance and handling of waste from shipping activities. The fee shall be paid for all ships visiting or operating in the Bulgarian port, whether or not a port reception facility has been used. Where the conditions for the ship to carry out regular transports relating to frequent and regular visits to Bulgarian seaports are met at the same time, the exemption of a vessel owner shall be laid down and the ship owner shall have an agreement on the transfer of the waste and payment of the relevant charges in a port along the ship's route. The Bill extends the range of persons who can make proposals and participate in the activities of introducing international and European standards for safety and quality management, environmental protection and personnel requirements in ports as Bulgarian standards, adding to the port infrastructure. The attitude of the submitted bill took the President of the Commission Manol Genov, who raised the question of how the control will be carried out................................................................................... The Ministry of Environment and Water has clarified that this bill concerns ship waste, while another will regulate the part concerning alien species. A statement on the bill also expressed Mr. Atanasov, noting that the indirect fee introduced is contrary to the Law on State Fees. The Ministry of Transport and Communications stressed that the proposed texts are in full compliance with the requirements of the Directive, where it is clearly and precisely defined why the fee is indirect. He also clarified that the Law on State Fees through its Transitional and Final Provisions explicitly excludes from its scope the fees collected under the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 8 votes in favour of the Committee on the Environment and Waters, without abstention, and 4 abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Seaspaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 47-202-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u171	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Here you are, Mr. Gazhev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u172	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is in the way of conduct, as I am opening Decision No 190 of 31 March this year of the Council of Ministers, which approves this bill, and is entrusted to it. 3 to the Minister of Transport to present the Draft Law to the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, can you read me art. 76, para. Three, last sentence of the Rules? [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Right, we have to follow the rules, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u173	I'll read it, Mr. Gadget, after the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u174	When the bill is submitted by the Council of Ministers, it is presented by a member of the Council of Ministers, not a deputy minister or director of the Directorate, so it says in the Rules of Procedure, a member of the Council of Ministers. I mean, we have a double default right now. First, the decision of the Council of Ministers. Secondly, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the lack of representation. You can say that: it was, but this text is new. It was adopted for the first time by the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, and before that, the other National Assemblys had no similar text, and this was the return of change. In other words, the new change in the return of parliamentaryism, which is clearly out of the question. I personally worry if Mr. Subev is well, I hope he is well and able to come, as we have two questions to him with a deadline of 9 May, and today we are 18 May, and have not answered to this day in the National Assembly. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I hope that on Friday the Order of Article will be fulfilled. 103, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, which means that when a Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Prime Minister does not answer questions within the prescribed period of the Rules to come to the National Assembly and explain why it is not answered within the time limit. So these two things first, how will we perform art. 76, para. Art. 3 and Art. 103, para. Four of our rules?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u175	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Subev, unfortunately, is prevented from coming. I have been communicating with him on this matter. Regarding the questions you have, unanswered I now understand about this case I will check it out and personally undertake to speak with him and his parliamentary secretary to see why the delay is delayed and to correct this in order to implement the Rules. For speech Ivo Atanasov. After that, I recorded Blasvest Belev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! When examining the bill in the Commission, I drew attention to the infringement, to the use of the name "not a direct fee" and I believe that this fee is contrary to art. 2 of the Law on State Fees, namely the principle of compliance of the State Fee with the costs incurred. The power of art. 2 of the Law on State Fees they are simple and proportionate. The simple charges shall be determined on the basis of the necessary material and technical and administrative costs for the provision of the service and the proportionate charges shall be determined on the price of the document and of the service. In this case, while there is no service and the charge is due, I think it can be said that this non-direct charge text is null and void. The Ministry of Transport believes that such an amendment is admissible in the Law. The other thing I paid attention to and which is not covered in Mr. Genov's report is the exemption under art. 103c, para. 1, t. 2. I note that this is about carrying out regular transports related to frequent and regular visits to the Bulgarian sea ports. These fees are collected not only at sea ports, but also on the Danube River. On the Danube, we have both public and private ports and ports dedicated to concession. In this case, will these fees be due? Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 shall not apply. 103 for the exemption from those fees to ship owners who are both owners of ports or concessionaires of the port. This is incomplete in the Law and there is a danger that a conflicting interpretation will arise at one next point. I think we should do it in art. 103c, para. 1, t. 2 also to indicate the assumptions for the exemption from payment of such a fee, assuming that it is lawful for ship owners of ships along the Danube. There are also five dredging fleets that own ports, own their own ships, drills for extracting inert material, sections. Does this mean that they should not be exempt from these charges because the Law does not consider such hypotheses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u177	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Are there any lines to Ivo Atanasov? Here you go, Mr. Belev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Atanasov, I generally agree with what you say, because that is indeed a hypothesis. On the other hand, the Law clearly states that it is for each ship and whether the owner of a ship is the owner of a port, by the way, this hypothesis actually exists only on the Danube, the sea does not have such an option, will decide to take out of one pocket and put in the other pocket, I think it is not something dramatic. In other words, this does not contradict any of the provisions of other laws. All ships are under the denominator of this bill. 103, I think that's settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u179	Thank you, Mr. Belev. Here you go, Mrs. Kirova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! First, I declare a conflict of interest because I own a port and own 11 vessels, ships that operate differently. For this reason, I would like to ask you a question, Mr. Atanasov. It did not become clear to me that yes, it is not difficult to remove from one pocket and put in the other when it comes to pennies, but how will I issue an invoice to myself as a materially responsible person and as the recipient of the invoice, and what is the logic of this action? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Is there a third line to Ivo Atanasov? I can't see. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u182	Mrs. Kirova, your question should not be to me, but to the importers of the Bill. Regarding the colleague and what he said the hypotheses of the Danube River were settled, they were not settled because under art. 103 (b) (b) (c) (i) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 1, t. 2 is explicitly indicated the seaports, the Danube river is not indicated. I believe that this hypothesis must be explicitly settled in order not to create incorrect interpretations, including the question Mrs Kirova raised. It must be supplemented for vessels owned by concessionaires owned by the owners of private ports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u183	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. To speak, Mr. Belev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll take this opportunity to say a few words as a comment. The ship and the port are different entities, so regardless of who owns them, but quite rightly, Mr. Atanasov, and you raise the question. The fact that seaports are involved gives reason to assume that there may be some unregulated exceptions. I would like to make the following comment and I would like to use the fact that Captain Ventsislav Ivanov is here to ask some questions to him, if he decides to answer, if not, just to take into account my remarks for the next stage. Firstly, this is a directive of the European Union since 2019. Now, with this bill, we transpose the directive, which, by the way, should be transposed by 28 July 2021, that is, we are late. My remarks to the Bill are as follows: first, in art. 103e, t. 3 is said to be: The different rates of the charge may be determined depending on the category, type and size of the ship, the services provided to ships................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This is where I'm worried about the part of the sentence outside the established hours of work at the port. The ship has no working hours, the ship works 24 hours, 7 days a week. Here there is such a danger of paying a fee, since the idea of the Bill is to encourage the transfer of waste, i.e., in other words, the ship pays in advance, and then whether it will hand over the waste or not, is its problem, but thus encourages the transfer of waste to port reception facilities. As a fixed period of time is fixed, say, the working time of the port is from 8,00 to 17,00, there remains a period of time in which, if the ships are normally, say, container workers visit a port for four, five, six hours if they are outside the working time of the ship the fee they have paid, the port hinders its consumption, so to say, so here on this point I have notes. The second note I make is to t. 4 of the same article, which says: It is true that the notion of short distances is a direct translation from English, but it is not clear what a short distance means. Either the importers should define the concept of short distances and the notion of short distances to be replaced by I have another note. The bill concerns ships visiting seaports. Since the current form of the Law on Marine Spaces makes a division between a ship and a yacht, I would like this bill to clarify.. Since the directive itself does not make such a division, the concept of a ship is clearly defined in the directive. Our law divides a ship and a yacht, saying that the yacht is also a ship, but it seems to me that if it stays that way, meaning the yachts are not included in the definition of a ship, there will be ambiguity, which now, for example, gives rise to a case that a yacht with five people on board must pay fees that a ship pays with Twenty-four crews that generate far more waste. These are my notes to the Bill, and between first and second readings I will seek the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u185	Thank you, Mr. Belev. For a cue, Rositsa Kirova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Belev, I agree with some of what you said, with one single difference. The bill in the part where the amendments are proposed does not mention river ports, but introduces a fee which also concerns shipping on the Danube. So this has to be refined because it will create an opportunity, including legal appeals, in the event of a fee being imposed in this way. I think you're wrong, this fee is not introduced for the purpose, as it is written, to stimulate the transfer of waste, because the payment of the fee does not mean that if you surrender waste, you will not pay an additional fee, and it becomes absolutely clear, there is a separate fee for that purpose. The part of the costs which is not covered by the so-called indirect fee, if any, shall be covered on the basis of the waste actually submitted to the reception facilities and such a fee is currently available and shall act. All port operators and the vessel owners are obliged to sign contracts and pay fees when transmitting such waste, but then we have a service actually carried out and there are charges against this service actually carried out. What you said about the yachts has its resonant and perhaps in the terminology of this proposal we could replace the word "ship" with "shipcrafts" and make the relevant classification and enumeration according to the vessel, because otherwise there are many sensitive concepts in the proposed changes that will create an opportunity for interpretation. However, I have one question for the importers, as there is no representative of the Ministry of Transport, I will allow myself to address the representative of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration. [[Noise and lines: "There is a representative. "]] Excuse me? There's a representative of the Ministry of Transport. Yes, so to the Deputy Minister of Transport is my question, then, since he is present in the Chamber. These charges are collected by the Port Administration (port Administration) and the port owners (port Administration) it can be collected by the Port Administration (Port Administration) or by port owners or port operators to account for the Port Administration (Port Administration) charge? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I would like there to be a clarification here who actually collects the fee, because what is the point of collecting a fee from a private port, which then takes it into the Port Administration, and why?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u187	Time, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u188	The member or the member shall be in the case, or/or shall be in the case. Just explain the logic you apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u189	Thank you. Ivo Atanasov for a second line. I didn't realize that Mr. Ivanov was also Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u190	The coworker set an example with a yacht and a ship...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u191	You're also a deputy... Just a second, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u192	...with a six-seat yacht and a 30-seat ship, for example, when the fee can be the same. I repeat that in these changes we do not affect the Danube River there are also ports, there are shipping, there are people living and working there. I'm going to give you an identical example, even more striking, when we say about a ship, we have self-propelled and non-self-propelled vessels. Do non-self-propelled vessels owe a fee when visiting a Danube port? That's not stated, you still have to... You say you do not owe most likely, but let it be stated explicitly. If a ship pushes or drags eight non-self-propelled vessels, eight sections and visits this port, is it due a fee? In my opinion, these things should be taken into account before the second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u193	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Is there a third line to Blagovest Belev? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Belev. I also found out that Mr. Ivanov is the executive director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration, right? This is your... [[Reply: "Yes, exactly. "]] Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Belev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with her colleagues and Mr. Atanasov. Mrs. Kirova, I agree with you. It is true that here the bill is a little damaging, that is, it does not make references to the Danube River, but it is rather a omission of the original law, there are also no ports reflected. The proposed bill includes only household waste, waste under Annex No 5, which is why I say that the amendments stimulate the planting of these waste. For all other waste on the other anexes there are reception facilities that are very specific. I, by the way, have some notes here too, but we'll do that in an expert environment, as we don't have to bore our colleagues. This is my answer to your remarks, and I indirectly respond also to Mr. Atanasov. What you're saying is true. The ports of the Danube need to enter with the specifics of the ships a non-self-propelled ship, it is driven by some pusher and due to the fact that the non-self-propelled ship does not have a crew, it does not generate such a type of waste that is within range.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u195	Thank you, Mr. Belev. I see the CEO of... [[Noise and lines.]] Let's give Mr. Ivanov the floor first... [[Heckling]] Okay, I'm sorry, so I misunderstand you. Here you are, Mr. Gutsanov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! That's a very short statement. However, at first reading we accept the philosophy of this law, and between first and second in the Commission what is necessary, naturally, that it will be cleared and done in the best possible way. The Danube River is noted in the Bill that it is also related to this pollution. The fact that there are indeed gaps in the previous law is obvious, but I appeal to my fellow Members that this is, in principle, what is done at first reading, and we do not go into all the details, because so we have started getting into the details that are being done in the Commission, which is leading the bill in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u197	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Replices to Borislav Gutsanov? Here you go, Mrs. Kirova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Gutsanov, my line is for you. I hope between first and second readings, when we propose changes that affect river ports, to add them to the list of exceptions and to add additional exceptions to the fees, not to decide that the amendments are not in the spirit of the Law and to reject them, as happened in the Energy Commission with some of the proposed amendments from our group, because in that case it will turn out that we should be talking now, at the time of first reading. In this respect, I would like to point out that the list of exemptions to maritime ports must be added and the river ports should be written down because, if the spirit of the Law is right to encourage the acceptance of waste, it must in no case be viewed on this unilaterally or the possibility to speculate or in any way to impose burdens on the various operators of ports which are not necessary and create genuine administrative obstacles. Because in the exceptions that you have added below, there are some obligations relating to taking into account what exceptions there are made. How will this charge be determined by the port operator is also not very clear because, if the Port Administration is to determine the charges for a seaport, they cannot be the same for the river port. I mean, do we have any indication of what the amount of these fees is and what the regulation provides, what does the Ministry provide for them? They also make an uncompetitive part of the Bulgarian ports. For the sabotage movement, something I think is important. There's a big difference between being sabotaged at sea and at Danube ports. This can also determine the range of exceptions and should be taken into account between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Any other lines to Borislav Gutsanov? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Kirova, you are absolutely right, we have no disagreements on what you have just said will be paid attention. I'm not the importer, so I can't answer all the questions you've commented on, but I'm sure what you wanted and what you just talked about will be done. There's absolute logic to what you're saying. Be assured that as an alumni of the Naval School, I will not allow there to be things that will not meet proper exploitation. As far as increasing ship disbursment is concerned, we spoke during a Commission meeting. The same was my thesis that this new fee should not increase the disbursment, so we are not competitive as far as Constanza is concerned, which is the most important port in the Black Sea, related to Varna and Burgas. So be assured that this thing will be done in the most precise way possible, and so we will bring it into the Chamber of the National Assembly at second reading. And as for the Danube River, it is said: the amount of the fee should be such that it does not encourage the discharge of waste into the sea, respectively, in the Danube River. The spirit of the Law is very clear that it is both the Black Sea and the Danube. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u201	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Are there any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Kirova, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My speech relates to another example that I will give to make it clear why, between first and second readings, the texts really need to be refined and I address the representatives of the Ministry of Transport who are here in the Chamber. I understand there's a deputy minister. Or won't you? I won't. In such a case, to the representative from the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration. There are river ports that have the so-called maneuvering ships. These are vessels that make service and submit the landing sections to the port concerned. And these are usually ships owned by the port operator and very often can actually be owned by the same company, so that the port operator and the shipper may be different persons within the meaning of the Maritime Ports and Inlands Act, but in fact with regard to the National Revenue Agency, since they are owned by one company, they are owned by one company, one person and one entity. In this case, what happens to the fees and why it is necessary for all river Bulgarian ports that have maneuverable ships, and there is certainly also in part of the sea ports and terminals, to impose an additional fee, unless we exclude, of course, an exception between first and second readings, which will be an administrative burden, because the point is to ease legislation and make it easier for those who work, and not to impose additional rules and weights on them literally. So I hope that between first and second reading and this question will find its answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u203	Thank you. Are there any lines to Rositsa Kirova? There are no lines. Any other statements on the bill? I'm calling off the discussion. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 47-202-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2022. Please, voting mode. They voted 136 MPs: 113, against 2, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u204	I propose that, Mr President, between first and second readings, the maximum time limit be adopted so that there may be an opportunity to work professionally on the amendments.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u205	28 days, huh?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u206	28 days, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u207	Okay. Is there a reverse opinion? [[Heckling]] It's not about the opposite opinions. Okay, there's no feedback from the stands. I put to the vote Rositsa Kirova's procedural proposal the deadline for proposals between first and second readings to be 28 days. They voted 145 MPs: 44, against 81, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. With this, we have exhausted this item on the agenda. Let's move on to the next one: PROJECT OF THE DECISION TO PROVIDE THE COURT OF AUDITORS TO INSTRUCTURING A DEFINITELY AUDIT REPORT OF COMPLIANCE WITH REGARD TO THE CONVERSATION, BUILDING AND EXPLOITATION OF THE ELECTRONIC SYSTEM FOR COLLECTION OF PAINTS FOR THE USE OF THE REPUBLIC'S REGULAR MOVEMENT FROM THE START OF THE PROJECT OF THE SYSTEM TO THE END OF 2020 A draft decision from the group of GERB-SDS was introduced. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, this draft decision was submitted in April. The basis for which we submitted this draft decision was that, a long time ago, from the end of 2020, the National Assembly has been entrusted in another register to carry out an audit of compliance in the conclusion and execution of public procurement contracts by the Road Infrastructure Agency in relation to the design, construction and operation of an electronic charging system for the use of the Republican road network. The audit that the National Assembly had then issued should have then ended probably because it appeared from the website of the Court of Auditors, on 18 October 2021, such a draft audit report was submitted for compliance audit and, respectively, two of the persons as Chairs of the Board of Directors of the Road Infrastructure Agency on 2016 and 2019 was awarded for an opinion. At this time or more precisely at the moment when the issue of the audits carried out by the Court of Auditors was raised in plenary not by us, first of all, was raised by the leader of the Bulgarian Socialist Party (Bulgarian Socialist Party) and Deputy Prime Minister at the moment - Mrs. Cornelia Nino, and in fact her comment concerned another audit of the Court of Auditors, we united together with colleagues from the BSP that it is appropriate that all audits that the National Assembly has entrusted to the Court of Auditors by its decision should be presented as soon as possible in the National Assembly. I recall that this audited audit of the Court of Auditors was awarded on a proposal from the BSP in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, which was supported by the ruling coalition at the time. In this sense, we are convinced that there should be publicity and transparency in all processes and, in this sense, it is high time for the Court of Auditors to present this audit report to the contracting authority, namely the National Assembly. I would like to add that, having raised the issue in plenary, it turned out that there was no information as to whether this final audit report was drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Court of Auditors and its Article. 49, but it also became clear that almost six months after the service of an audit report, as I announced a short time ago, the two chairmen of the Board of Directors of the Road Infrastructure Agency have expired the time limits for opinions on it, officials have not been finalised and no final one has been served. It is therefore important now by an act Draft of a decision of the National Assembly, perhaps to draw the attention of the Court of Auditors, that such audits have been carried out, that their award was more than two years ago and that it is high time that they acquainted us with their findings. Either way, especially at the moment is a very up-to-date topic with the toll system. You know that, including today, some of the protest actions are aimed at solving such cases, so, in the future, if we take an informed decision in the National Assembly on this subject, it is good to know the conclusions of these audit reports. In this sense, our parliamentary group proposed a draft decision, namely it is: the Court of Auditors to submit to the National Assembly a final audit report on compliance audits carried out in the conclusion and implementation of the Public Procurement Contracts of the Road Infrastructure Agency on the design, construction and operation of an electronic charging system for the use of a Republican road network from the beginning of the design of the system until the end of 2020. As a second point of the draft decision, we have proposed that the final audit report be submitted to April 20th, but since April 20th has long since passed, then perhaps in the course of the debate we will make an editorial proposal to extend the deadline eventually until June 1st. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-18.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I'm opening a discussion on the draft decision. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? There aren't any. Before we move on to the vote, let's set the deadline. Dessislava Atanasova's editorial proposal for item two is the deadline to be June 15th. June 15 is one month to three days. This is the editorial proposal. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First of all, I put to the vote the editorial proposal in point two of the deadline instead of 20 April to be 15 June 2022. Vote 167 MPs: 164 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are now going to vote on the main text in compliance with the editorial amendment adopted in paragraph 1. 2. Vote 163 MPs: 161, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I'll read the final text of the Decision to get into the transcript. Project! DECISION on the obligation of the Court of Auditors to submit to the National Assembly a final audit report on compliance in the conclusion and implementation of the Public Procurement Contracts of the Road Infrastructure Agency with regard to the design, construction and operation of an electronic charging system for the use of a Republican road network from the beginning of the design of the system until the end of 2020. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 84, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, art. 62, para. 3 in relation to Art. 62, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED 1. The Court of Auditors shall submit to the National Assembly a final audit report on compliance audit for the conclusion and implementation of the Public Procurement Contracts of the Agency for Road Infrastructure on the design, construction and operation of an electronic charging system for the use of a Republican road network from the beginning of the design of the system until the end of 2020. 2. The deadline for submission to the National Assembly of the final audit report shall be 15 June 2022 With this, we have exhausted this item on the agenda. I'm adjourned. The next regular meeting will be held tomorrow at 9:00. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
