ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u1	Dear Members of the Parliament, there is a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Please come in for a statement, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On 18 May 2022, heavy metal bars, unknown by whose authority and without the knowledge of the MPs, were placed at the official entrance of the National Assembly. The building of the National Assembly is a historical, architectural and cultural monument of national importance. It was built in 1884 and suffered wars, riots, bombings and protests. No President of the National Assembly has allowed himself to put bars on the building, which is a symbol of parliamentaryism and democracy. Putting bars on the building is a symbol of the people's representation, of our parliamentary republic and the people's sovereignty, showing fear and disrespect to the people who have chosen us all. The fear of the ruling of the people only months after their election into power passes into illogical and disgraceful acts that show only uncertainty and desire for confrontation. It's a shame the MPs are afraid of their people! Every Bulgarian citizen should know that this building is accessible and MPs work for their people. If they do not work in the interests of the Bulgarian people, they have no business in this building and must suffer the consequences of their words and deeds. It is disgraceful to have parliamentaryism surrounded by metal bars! It is disgraceful for the National Assembly to be permanently surrounded by metal fences! The Bulgarian government and the National Assembly should work in the interests of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people and then they will not be afraid of the citizens who elected them. Putting metal bars on the official entrance of the National Assembly caused sharp negative reactions among the people, Bulgarian public figures and politicians. It is unacceptable for such a single decision to be a threat to public order, as well as a symbol of the lack of parliamentaryism in Bulgaria. We, from the party AGE, insist on the immediate removal of the metal bars and the initiator of this act to apologize to the MPs and the Bulgarian people for this disgraceful deed. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Dear colleagues, before we move on to the Programme, I shall make a proposal under the order of art. 47, para. 5 in relation to the deposited draft decision on the early release of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, which, according to the Rules, should be examined the next day after the deposit. I propose that the following item be entered in the Programme.. Draft decision for early release of Miroslav Ivanov.. Vice-President of the National Assembly, such as being item 13 in the Programme, fixed as point 2 for Thursday, today .. 19 May 2022. This is my procedural proposal. Voting mode. Vote 198 MPs: for 196, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Dear MPs, I am telling you that the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in the implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an aircraft with crew members of the Air Force of Brazil. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearances should be granted to the countries concerned following a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas, the Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notification was received on 17 May 2022, i.e. No 47-203-09-52, and was granted to the Defence Committee. With this, we move to item one on the agenda for Thursday: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY PROTECTION LAW A report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation has come in. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 47-254-01-39, submitted by Stoyu Stoev and a group of MPs on 14 April 2022. At its regular meeting held on 11 May 2022, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition. The proposed bill restores the duration of the term of office of the members of the Commission for Protection of Competition from seven years to five years, as it was between 2010 and 2021. The bill also provides additional guarantees of professionalism with regard to the members of the Commission by increasing the selection criteria, which includes a requirement for an acquired educational and qualification degree of Master and an internship in the speciality of seven years. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, while the proposals do not lead to any amendment of other laws. The changes envisaged also do not create additional public expenditure and do not increase the administrative burden in the economy. A public discussion was held, two opinions were received by the Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Innovation and Growth, both of which were positive and supported by the Bill. In the course of the discussion Alexander Ivanov expressed the view that an active mandate is not a good practice to change to, to which Rumen Gechev added that the mandate of the current members of the KPC in the first place has been changed from five to seven years in its end in 2021 and now simply restores the previously established mandate. With regard to raising the criteria for education and experience, Rumen Gechev expressed support and even considers it appropriate to consider whether the necessary degree should not be a doctor by law or economics, which, in a number of cases, even without a formal requirement, has imposed European practice. Alexander Ivanov also agreed that the higher criteria for education and the goal of being elected people with the necessary experience are good solutions. Desislava Trifonova said support for the proposed higher educational criteria and made notes on the absence of the specific portfolios of the two future vice-presidents, specifying that this can be done between first and second readings. With regard to the second Vice-President, it also considers that this will lead to additional public expenditure on the basis of the remuneration concerned. Desislava Trifonova also made the statement that the European practice in the part of the duration of the mandate is not uniform and there are also examples of no-mandatoryness. Regarding the principle of non-interference in the current term of office, Martin Dimitrov made it clear that it is a very bad practice to extend a mandate by two years without making a new choice of members in the past term. With regard to the portfolios of the two Vice-Presidents, Martin Dimitrov expressed the view that this can be specified either between first and second readings or that the Commission can determine this on its own, and these two options should also be discussed in plenary. Rumen Hristov made the statement that Master, but a specialist in the field of competition protection is probably a suitable candidate from a doctor who specializes in another area, with which Rumen Gechev agreed and added that both for Master and Doctor he always had in mind specialists in the relevant areas. After the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovations proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Protection of Competition, No 47-254-01-39, submitted by Stoyu Stoev and a group of MPs on 14 April 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u5	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Colleagues, you have the floor to speak on the amendment of the bill that has been proposed. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! The Parliamentary Group will not support this bill. Our arguments are as follows. In the desire to control the regulatory authorities, regardless of whether they have expired mandates, whether they comply with the conditions and whether this is in the practice to be followed, it was stated at the beginning of the management of this coalition. We are also aware who is behind this desire and the BNB scene clearly showed who is behind this request for this type of policy. I have listened carefully to the Report of the President of the Commission, and I will agree that it was not good, and it is not good practice to extend the mandates when they end without making a new choice, but I will again say from this tribune for the nth time, the bad practices are not corrected by new bad practices. If this is done wrong, you are condemning it, and it is clear from the Report, you are now proposing that we fix something that has not been done right, to correct it the same way again. That is why our main argument is: let us let the mandates run, the conditions for change be fulfilled, this brings stability. The regulators are a special tool of both European and Bulgarian politics. Businesses have a very serious need to know that not every majority, not after every choice will change the regulators and regulators will be swayed at the will of one political party or another, by the will of one political doctrine or another. Regulators are therefore regulators in order to regulate the main processes of competitiveness, by the laws on which they work, not to mention that the second element with the so-called increase in criteria is not an increase in criteria, but is an opening of the door for specific people who are already, so to speak, designated candidates for these posts. The criteria have been high enough so far, and I do not think, for example, that the expansion of the educational value will lead to some high quality work of these bodies. I can set an example with the state right now, but let's refrain from insulting one of the highest people in the country. Therefore, colleagues, I urge you not to follow this bad practice, first. Secondly, to think from now on about the other regulators that there should be consensus between political parties to broadcast stability, they should broadcast political neutrality. Yes, Cent, yes, knowledge of the laws, yes, objective work in the interests of the business and in the interests of the people, because we are about to see the same for other regulators, as we have seen with regard to the KEWRC. We import nothing into the Bulgarian economy and do nothing useful with what we are currently trying to do. Finally, by expressing his absolute respect for each party's sovereign right to determine its attitude, I am puzzled as to why such a people would agree to support this bill. From coalition ethics, culture or whatever, given that a worthy application for one of the regulators was played out as a circus by their coalition partners. It is your will, you have the sovereign right to determine your policy, but somehow serious people and politicians will not understand you. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u7	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any lines to Jordan Tsonev's statement? Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I took this statement to save, to give it another chance, because you were about to end the debate. There were no other statements. I expected one of the importers to speak, and maybe now they will. It is good to have a debate, colleagues, in the National Assembly, especially when the initiative, clearly dictated by the Council of Ministers, has been seized by the MPs, a group of them, and has been tabled today on the rapid track change in the Law to reduce a mandate which, according to a European regulation, has been increased from five to seven years. I expect you, colleagues, to come out here and out of the stands to tell your views on better work, changes in the authority that you are proposing today, except in the mandate and in its executive body, by increasing the replacements of the leadership of two. I hope this does not correspond to some quota principle that you have to redefine between the coalition, but to go to such a choice, because by the power of the majority it is clear that you will impose this bill. The question is, fellow Members, what problems are really being sought to solve and whether this is not some goal for the management of certain organs that we have repeatedly commented on. When choosing the composition of the KEWRC you know what you have.. We told you that this is mastery. Then it won't release your eyes, it will pierce them, as they say, because at the moment the KEWRC cannot make decisions that are far beyond its powers. The same will happen with this body and you will turn it into a close party one perhaps, or a coalition, from which there is neither the economy nor the citizens to receive a positive dividend. We have also said in the Commission with many of our fellow Members that one of your main motives for this change in mandate is European practice, and we have, in fact, proved to you that European practice gives such a mandate, with the lowest duration of five years, and there are also such countries, and not least, where this body is without a mandate. So here's your thesis, colleagues, relieved. Naturally, GERB-SDS will not support this bill. Once again, fellow Members, this looks only like some type of vendetta, because you cannot justify yourself in any other way why this bill has not been tabled by the Council of Ministers, with my greatest respect for fellow importers. The report alone confirmed it, and I agree that there may have been some inexcussion somewhere, however, in the qualification of the members of the Commission for Protection of Competition not to be a bachelor, to be a master's degree. But I don't think the current composition has that kind of problem either. It was interesting to meet my colleague Gechev, who shared another experience and vision that there are such people to be qualified as a minimum doctor in economic or political sciences. And now I don't know if someone's interests are gonna run into them here, because maybe there's someone who's been trained with a master's degree, not a doctor, but that's gonna be seen as a result of the debate and the nominations. Colleagues, I will tell you that today you will impose this with the power of the majority, it is clear, but these authorities in Bulgaria must have their independence and in the National Assembly, naturally, there should be consensus on the choice of such control bodies. They give in the situation a calmness that said this and the previous, to investors and to business how to operate. Keep in mind that the current term expires in no more than a year, if I am not mistaken for my memory 2021 on the European Directive from five to seven years has increased the term of office at that time, I think it is leaking. One year has passed, so now all this effort is for one year. What's the hurry? What do you think you're going to change, except for management? Some way I didn't see a solution to improve the work of this control body. Note that this is an authority whose decisions are subject to judicial review, that is, it is not a final instance either. Therefore, to stress that we will not agree with the proposals made so, we will let you see in the debate what you will say, and also if it will certainly then be even more interesting for the nominations who will head the Commission and lead it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u10	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to make a reply with regard to what has just been said in relation to the increase in the mandate in 2021. Colleagues of the opposition, with all due respect, but it is not right to claim from this tribune something which is not actually written in a European directive, regulation or any other act. In this sense, there is no requirement in European legislation for a specific term of office of the authorities which ensure that there is free competition in the Member States. On the contrary, there are requirements for expertise and independence. And to give a better example of this, the shorter term actually stands out as good practice in the European Union. In 22 Member States, the term of office of competition authorities is shorter than seven years, but in some countries with the shortest term of office, the authorities are one of the busiest, most active and most effective. And I will give concrete examples with comparison for Bulgaria in 2020. Austria, whose term of office is five years, received 13 times more concentration notifications, Poland also received nine times more concentration notifications, France also received six times more concentration notifications by a five-year term under French law. In fact, the French Commission is one of the most active committees worldwide, not only in terms of concentration but also in terms of antitrust measures. Currently there are cases against Meta, Google and Apple, which will largely define the development of the abuse of dominant position in the digital sphere, and it stands out as one of the leading committees around the world. The return of the five-year term is therefore a step towards returning normality and an extremely good practice, as can be seen in the European Union. In no case will this affect the Commission's expertise. In European legislation, I repeat, there is no requirement for a specific term of office and we should stick to the facts, especially when you are trying to disprove our proposals with them. At the same time, the Bill and the changes we submit lead to an increase in expertise, as you can see from the Law, by having a higher education rate, higher standards of peculiarity and independence and required work experience. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrusheva. For a second line? Mrs. Trifonova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Mr. Ivanov, there is no point in explaining to the government either the duration of the mandates or their objectives, as they have already decided what they will do. They conveniently missed the fact that, in France, the President of the Commission is undisputed and, in fact, the members of the Commission have a mandate. They also conveniently missed the fact that in Germany the term is seven years. It is clear to all of us that this is a witch hunt and because GERB tried to implement a directive two years ago and has extended the mandate and is currently doing the opposite. We all know what we're talking about. It is no coincidence that you place both vice-presidents so that you can fulfill your quota principle in the coalition to satisfy the interests on the right and the interests on the left. We expect to see the battle between BSP and Democratic Bulgaria on the nominations for the Commission for Protection of Competition. We hope that you will not get what has been obtained with regard to BNB, you will once again fail a good candidacy, because in the coalition you cannot agree. [[Relations from the People's Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Yeah, Mr. Svilensky, we'd love to be a good guy. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Trifonova. For a third line, Mrs. Alexandrova? You're giving up. Is there a third line you want? I won't. For the back, Mr. Ivanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u14	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members replicating! Mrs. Dimitrusheva, thank you for making the line. You may have been the only one who spoke in the Commission, although you are not a member of the Economic Commission. I congratulate you on coming to defend your bill. However, even then, your insecurity with which you defend the Bill has remained so somewhere in space. I can also quote the European direct and you know it, but I will do it for the House. Directive EU/2019/1 and Directive EU/2019/633. So check them out, Mrs. Dimitrusheva. This is a basis for the mandate and competence, of course, which enables both the experience gained and the capacity to be used up to the time of the Commission. Once again, to emphasise the Commission's mandate expires in one year. What's the rush? What problems in the coalition are you solving with these positions that will obviously take over your party assignments? It is nice to say in a statement from the government and the importers. Mrs. Trifonova, thank you very much for reminding your colleagues what the volume of the work really is. Mrs. Dimitrusheva said what it was like in France, only to remind ourselves how much greater the French economy is. Why didn't we compare ourselves to the scale of the Bulgarian economy, but to France, to Germany? Indeed, their authorities are certainly burdened with more activity, given that their economies and their population are in times bigger than Bulgaria. It's simple logic, but sometimes political logic doesn't correspond to it. Of course, in France, because of great experience and independence, this committee is without a mandate. No term, colleagues. Again, let me remind you: a poor manifestation of political maturity, that is, immatureness, you are manifesting, colleagues, when you terminate the mandate of such authorities...... by the power of the majority. I hope you either withdraw it or put it on the Council of Ministers to go through a public discussion. I hope that at least one more of my fellow importers will speak and explain what the purpose of mastering one body is. We have seen what has happened to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Should I predict that it will also happen to the Commission for Protection of Competition? Not to mention your unfortunate attempt as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, where there were two applications. All of us and society saw how the entire debate and the choice of governor of the Bulgarian National Bank ended. Now, if it's going to be the same fights and twists of hands for the Commission for Protection of Competition, better, colleagues, let it run out of term after one year, do not rush things? Choose a body to work for Bulgaria and the economy of Bulgaria, not for private party interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For a next statement? You have the floor, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u16	Dear Madam Presidential, honourable Members of Parliament! Unlike our previous colleagues, we will support this bill at first reading. As far as I was able to get to know him, there are two main points there: the first, the reduction of the Commission's mandate from seven to five years. The second, raising the qualification requirements for taking up the respective position, something that is theoretically good, and we hope to be applied in practice in the future. We'll see how this goes. As regards the Commission's mandate. We believe, even if it is reduced to five years, that the National Assembly should have the opportunity to terminate early the term of office of members or of the Commission's management, as the Commission for Protection of Competition exercises its powers in an economic environment in which it should regulate the lack of cartels, the lack of monopoly. Unfortunately, in recent decades the Bulgarian reality has had a lot of doubts about the possible presence of cartels or monopolies. This small market, which represents Bulgaria and the Bulgarian market as a whole, should prevent the possibility of making possible decisions by the Commission, which would benefit cartels or monopolies in the future, in other words, possible Commission work against the interests of Bulgarian citizens. That is why we, at the AGE, believe that the termination of the term of office of the members or of the Commission's management would have to be, even under a five-year term, which is justified in the reasons of the bill, does not coincide with the term of office of the National Assembly, which would guarantee an impartiality of the Commission. The National Assembly should be allowed to terminate the Commission's term of office early in the event that it considers that it does not act in the interests of competition, in the interests of the Bulgarian citizens. I will even give you an example of this, we have proposed a similar exemption mechanism for committee members with regard to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Our bill, unfortunately, has been aged for five months in the drawers of the National Assembly and has not yet entered the plenary for the first vote because of the reluctance of the ruling coalition. I believe that this is not a good example concerning parliamentaryism and concerning the legislative activity of the opposition. A similar bill should enter the plenary. Since we are forced to work in such an adverse environment, in this Bill we will make explicit proposals in this regard in art. 6 of the Law, to make sure that they are examined first and foremost in the relevant committee, because the bill is the ruling coalition, and it will be moved at a rapid pace in the relevant committee, and next, we are sure that it will be dealt with quickly in the plenary at second reading, as the bill is once again the ruling coalition. At least this way we will take advantage of this procedural opportunity for our proposals to be heard by the other MPs. Moreover, the deposit of bills by the opposition continues with another example, which is our VAT reduction bill, which again waited five months to be dealt with in the first vote, and was rejected, and in the last few days we see that the ruling coalition is proposing similar changes for lower VAT rates. Then the question is asked: why is a bill and a legislative proposal made by the opposition to wait for months and to be rejected, and such a legislative proposal, when proposed by the ruling majority, already good and adopted, even if it is slightly altered and modified? In this regard, although we will support the bill at first reading and first voting, as we agree with the motives of the importers, a cashier's reduction in the mandate of the members of the Commission, a cashier's increase in the requirements for taking up their position, we believe that a mechanism must be established that has a preventive effect on their activities. If they knew that they could possibly be released early by a decision of the National Assembly, they would think whether to make a decision in the future that might be in favor of some very serious economic interests. Dear Members of the National Assembly, remember that the decisions taken by the Commission for Protection of Competition concern extremely serious amounts of money, sometimes involving tens, hundreds of millions of levs, which revolve in the Bulgarian economy. That is why such mechanisms should find a place in the Law of the European Union for early release, in order to have a preventive effect on the future work of the Commission. And I hope, once again, that when we propose such changes to the Law, I do not hear any justifications that this was contrary to any European directive or any European regulation. Each of us knows that there is a very good competitive environment in European countries. We should make the same competitive environment in Bulgaria in one way or another. I believe that such a proposal should improve the possibility of creating such competitiveness in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u17	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Any lines to Mr. Petrov? I won't. Mr. Martin Dimitrov is listed for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! The Commission for Protection of Competition is an extremely important body because in the Bulgarian state there is only one institution that can protect competition, and this is the Commission for Protection of Competition. No one else! No one else can take measures against cartels, no one can take measures against abuse of a dominant position outside the Commission for Protection of Competition. No one else! I fully agree on the stability of the mandates. It is, only when a five-year term expires, you extend it by two, and when you have, colleagues, that you had no right to raise these people for a new term because that's how the Law was written. You have no right to raise the same people immediately for a new mandate. You, in order to get around this thing, even though the Law says they have no right to be erected immediately for a new term, are extending the mandate for two years. This, fellow Members, I'm sorry, but to tell you the truth, if I had anything to do with this subject, I'd be really uncomfortable. Why is it written that they cannot be elected immediately for a new mandate? In order to interrupt the possibility of creating dependencies between these people in the Commission for Protection of Competition which they may be and the sectors under their supervision. And all of a sudden, it turns out that their mandate has been extended by two years. There are some directives here, but these directives have actually expanded the scope of the Commission's work to protect competition. No one is saying that in this regard their mandate should be increased by two years. There's no such thing. Someone made that up. So, yes, there has to be sustainability of the mandates, I agree, but this is the opposite. This is an abuse of this rule and you are defending it, which I am very surprised at personally, but everyone has the right to do as he sees fit, honourable Members. To the question that has been asked: what can be improved in the work of the Commission for Protection of Competition? I would like to ask Parliament the following question: does anyone know in 2020 how many on-the-spot searches the Commission for Protection of Competition have carried out? Does he have a volunteer to answer? If you ask about the National Revenue Agency, they'll tell you thousands. If you ask about the Commission for Consumer Protection, they will tell you thousands. Now tell me about the Commission for Protection of Competition how many are there? Is there a volunteer? [[Heckling]] You're gonna give me lines. It's about a check-up. One inspection carried out by these people. Edna! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And they say that... They explain to each other why there is one check for search and seizure on the ground. They say there was a horse, and there's no way. And because there was... That's what people say. They're explaining themselves. And because there was a Kovid, there was a check-up. But it also had a copy for the National Revenue Agency, and it had a copy for the Consumer Protection Commission, and they did thousands of checks. And the logical question comes because imagine that in this sector there are cartels in sectors that are supervised by the Commission for Protection of Competition, and when they hear that there is an on-the-spot check, is there anything to worry about these people, is there something to think about?! You mean how do you catch them if there are cartels and abuse of dominance?! You, if you're not going on-site, how do you catch these people? Your only option is for someone to come and surrender themselves and say, "Good afternoon! We're a cartel, we come to the Commission for Protection of Competition. How do I do that? How can that happen? However, the truth is as follows: the insufficient activity that I see and we are seeing from "Democratic Bulgaria" in the current composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Unfortunately, there is nothing better to say about the previous composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition, which means that there is a need to work on a very strong competition authority, and here I agree with the colleague who said that this should be done jointly with the opposition to have talks, to seek large consensus, to seek people professionals. Yeah, we totally agree with what was said. On your question, what else can be done to improve the work of the Commission for Protection of Competition? The following thing has been explained to us, colleagues, that they did not deal with prices because they did not have such competence, we were told. However, at least a few of their sectoral analyses talk about fuel prices, talk about prices as a reason for the inspection itself, and otherwise they say to the question: why, given that the Russian type of oil is trading at a great discount, does this not reflect in proportion to the prices in Bulgaria? They say we don't have jurisdiction here?! I would like to draw your attention to the claim that they did not respond, did not understand, had no competence in terms of prices, so I understood them. What are the European regulatory authorities doing? In Italy, Italy's Competition Authority, this is information from their press release, after a serious increase in fuel prices, has sent a request for information to the largest oil companies operating in the country, see price problems and start checking. The Irish competition authority deals with more than 80 complaints regarding the retail prices of fuels in the country, i.e. looking at prices, seeing a problem, starting an inspection. We're moving on. The German Competition Authority, with its communication of 16 March 2022, points out that it is constantly monitoring the price developments in gas stations in the country. The Federal Competition Authority in Austria has launched a market survey on the Austrian fuel market. In this regard, the Office has received numerous complaints related to fuel prices. That is, the very statement that comes from the Commission for Protection of Competition that they had no competence to monitor prices, personally, worries me very much and I ask myself the question: do you see through the prices the distortions of competition, otherwise how do you see them differently? They couldn't answer me. I mean, you, if you don't keep track of the prices, how else are you gonna catch the distortion of competition, ladies and gentlemen? I don't see how. And the question they were asked before the war in Ukraine and Russia's insane aggression, in Bulgaria there is a serious increase in fuel prices in comparison with the other countries of Central and Eastern Europe. In Bulgaria, growth is one of the major second places, which is not explained why it happened and we do not have the necessary data, but here we are also told that when it comes to prices, the Commission for Protection of Competition is assessing that it does not have the competence to answer this question. My fellow Members, I hope that you will support the Bill for purely principled reasons. But the huge responsibility, I would like to conclude, to this National Assembly is to create a strong, responsible, competent body to protect competition in Bulgaria. Guys, we need this, I know it's not easy, but now we have to do it or at least make the most of it in this direction. Thank you. [[(Applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u19	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Dimitrov! Only with the last part of your speech can I agree with the fact that the National Assembly can change further competences at its discretion, of course, can give additional powers. You didn't give the most important answer: why exactly less than a year in a hurry to change the mandate, to change the leadership? [[Cos there's only one check.]] Why does this decision, which has been tabled by respected Members of Parliament, and you are an importer, have nothing to give additional powers to change competences if we believe that the hands of the Authority are tied up? You didn't answer that. Otherwise, I agree with the National Assembly that it can involve such competences, give powers to investigate in detail and in depth, but do not do so, you do otherwise, Mr. Dimitrov. You are also kindly missing the fact that the answer may be, again, a redistribution of some quota principle in places. This will be confirmed surely afterwards with the proposals made. I am not saying that I am a prophet, but we have seen it in this Parliament, too, by your coalition, Mr. Dimitrov, it is. The authority that you currently want to decapitate and appoint your people also say that its decisions are subject to control by the Supreme Court, which confirms more than 70% of the decisions on valid. Once again, your thesis is good, but your execution is not like your application. If you want to withdraw this bill, submit it through the Council of Ministers, let public discussion run in order to strengthen the authority's competence, not just to change people. That's what you're offering really. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a second line? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Dimitrov, I hope, if you have the opportunity for a duplicate, to explain to colleagues from GERB not so legal, economic and legal things, but in human terms to explain to them that the Commission for Protection of Competition has been turned by them into a committee for the protection of cartels. And a committee, when it's full of people who are there for that purpose, has no place there. So the whole howl here is: why do our people who patronize our businesses and turn the country into a huge cartel have to be removed? Because they're bad! I hope you can explain that to them. (Applause from We are continuing the Change and IHN.)
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u23	Mr. Dimitrov, you have an opportunity for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! To tell you the truth, colleagues, if we had offered one body and he had done one on-the-spot check for a year, I'm telling you honestly, I would have gone out on this stand and I would have said: this body is obviously not effective, I would have told them directly. You keep protecting these people, that's amazing, you know? Amazing this thing?! And you say: nothing that they have done in a year one on-the-spot check with a search, leave them for another year to do so. That's what you're telling us. They work well, they don't do the checks clearly, largely, leave them for another year. That's how I understand your message. The truth is, fellow Members, we need a strong advocate of competition, one we haven't had in 10 years. This will happen, again I say, with the participation of the entire National Assembly, colleagues. So it won't be like last time, and it shouldn't be, and it should be looking for professionals, it should be looking for people who, because of their personal reputation, will do the best in their activities. It is also important to note that the Commission's work report for 2020 was supported by only one parliamentary group and this is the GERB-SDS group. No other political force in this Parliament has said: these people have worked well, I support them the Report "No one else has, either they have not, or they have abstentioned, or they have voted against." This is the political assessment of the work of an authority, and it is based on the expertise and on the facts. So, honourable Members, in this case, if, after all these years, measures are being taken to have a genuine, working, effective Commission for Protection of Competition, this will be important especially in the current crisis and inflation situation for more competition and at favourable prices. This is our common task. [[(Applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u25	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. For the next statement there is Alexander Rakshiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, in my speech I will tell you something from my previous life. Before entering parliament, I spent 10 years in the business, convincing foreigners to buy products and services made by Bulgarians in companies based by Bulgarians. When you do what I do on a daily basis, you communicate with foreigners by phone, by e-mail, by video conference. At one point, the foreigner asks you a question: where are you from? And in companies, they teach you how to answer that question. They tell you this: if he's American, you tell him: I'm European and the conversation will end there, because he doesn't really care where you come from. However, if against you is European, they teach you to answer that you are from Bulgaria, but to create the feeling that the company is not Bulgarian. People are worried about advertising their brands as Bulgarian. Why is this happening? Because reputation has meaning and the reputation of Bulgarian regulators is not good because when a foreign investor wants to make an investment in Bulgaria, he will start his research by the media. In the media, what will he read about the Commission for Protection of Competition? Let me tell you what he will see first and, in my opinion, what he will be impressed with? 2018 will see the CEZ deal, which is actually blocked by the Commission for Protection of Competition. What will he read in the media? He will read that this blockage is very badly motivated by the Commission, will read that the Commission is blocking the deal, although no negative opinion has arrived, and will also read that it seems that the decision was not fair. For this particular case he will read again in the media in 2022. In February, he will read that the company to which the deal was then refused to acquire CEZ actually condemns the Commission for Protection of Competition and the court confirms that this decision was not fair. What will he see next in the media? I'm not pretending where the truth is, I'm telling you the story that a person will see through the media. He will read the New Broadcasting Group and the deal for it since 2018, he will see that a Czech billionaire, an international investor, wanted to buy this group and will see that the Commission for Protection of Competition again refuses its deal and will read again that the reasons have been unsatisfactory and will read that no negative opinion has been made on this deal. He'll track down the timeline, see what happened, and a few months later, the deal takes place. He'll say, uh, let me see who the buyer is. He's not the Czech billionaire anymore. The buyer is a Bulgarian businessman, close to the power. And at this moment, the foreign investor will say: there may be political risk here, I, if I invest in Bulgaria, will have political risk! What is the political risk of explaining to people who are not familiar. This is your risk of not achieving the maximum result of your investment because of the peculiarities of the political system in the country in which you invest. This is something that people look at because this investor is watching Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, there is a comparative analysis somewhere and it says different things. Against Bulgaria writes: a high political risk, which means that under equal conditions the person will not choose Bulgaria, will not bring his investment here, will not bring his production here, will not find jobs in Bulgaria, will not develop our economy. He'll go somewhere with less political risk. What is the way to deal with this problem because it harms the Bulgarian economy? Well, the road is by improving the reputation of our institutions. Because I'm sure the KPC employs good professionals who have made the right decisions hundreds of times, but the stains in the reputation stand. These stains need to be cleared to enable the KPC to start building its reputation again, cleanly, with a new composition, so that someday people who work what I worked before don't worry about saying where they came from. Thank you. [[We are continuing the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u27	Thank you, Mr. Rakshiev. Are there lines? I won't. Mr. Cholakov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u28	Good for Mr. Rakshiev. Now I'm going to tell a story. [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u29	It's a statement, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u30	Since 1991. You see, you were very young, until 1995 I lived in Germany, studied in Germany and I was very interested in German politics. I was interested in understanding how this country works, reading newspapers, watching television, talking to people. And what struck me is that there I never learned the names of the governors in charge. I knew the German KPC was very important, but I never learned who was chairing it. What I've learned is that names don't matter, that laws are important, and that the legal framework should be built in such a way that the legal framework creates sustainability, not people. When I returned to Bulgaria, I was surprised to find that here still, and unfortunately to this day, Stalin's Bolshevik rule works: the footage solves everything, and here the right is imposed not through law, but through people, or not through people. Here the most important question is whose you are, whose boy you are and whether you are a party boy. That's BCP's idea. I am saying this, colleagues, because I am returning to our speeches from the beginning of this Parliament. You've been studying in the West, haven't you, Western ways to introduce?! Unfortunately, we see that after five months you are turning into the same Bolsheviks that were giving you the advice, and that we have to remove some people now, put some of our people in and see how everything is going to work out. Colleague Rakshiev was very right about the legal risk, about the political risk. If you see the polls that are done from time to time between foreign investors, you will see that none of them puts corruption first. They don't have a problem with corruption, all the more so... [[Noise and lines.]] Wait, I've worked for other people's companies for 21 years too, my colleagues! [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] No, you won't. No, you won't. I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u31	No lines, please, Mr. Ananiev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u32	I won't, and I can prove it. But what they really have a problem with is political risk. And the political risk is precisely because of these decisions that we are going to make now. Like this decision, we remove some people and put other people in, and see how it gets better. It's not gonna get any better because you're going wrong again because you're not changing the legal framework, you're not making a reform that you talked about. It's not a change, it's just a replacement of some people with other people and it won't solve anything. Do you remember here the discussion about KEWRC has been mentioned several times. When the discussion was about the replacement of the members of the KEWRC, the main thesis that was launched by this tribune is: now we will appoint some new people, everything will become better and prices will fall. [[Noise and lines.]] Would you like us to take out the protocols and see which one of you said that electricity prices would decrease by changing people? Of course it wasn't. You don't change anything in the legal framework of energy, you just change people with other people, and in the same legal framework at best, these people shouldn't do anything about new people, at best. Worst case scenario, they can start to outrage. Now, if the idea were to have reform, you would start by reforming the laws. Since you're starting from reforming people, and you have no intention of changing the laws, what they were talking about, means that either you want to order some janitors into a state sofra, which will very quickly be understood, or you want to put people who are depraved. Either way, that's what we're gonna find out. If you put people who are indecent, I told you, if you remember when it was the KEWRC discussion, don't at all imagine that you're so smart, so intelligent, and that you can come up with a hypothesis and write legal, where now, when you put some people, they stay there forever or until you say so. So, if you're not going to reform, and you're going to cheddar, I'm going to let you know that in a few months, we're going to hug. And since we're better at this, we'll just show you how it works. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]] I'm not saying this to you. It doesn't matter to you. I'm saying this to future people you're going to choose in regulators. These future people, whom you will choose in regulators, be so good to be good people, and if there are to be changes in the laws, they have to propose these changes to the laws, comply with them and comply with the rules as it is in Germany, because otherwise we're gonna have to read them. And have absolutely no doubt that this is possible. As you can introduce a qualification requirement, so we can introduce an even higher qualification requirement. As you can reduce the mandates, the next National Assembly may increase the mandates. But, colleagues, this is not the way and I say it with pain, I say it with irony. That's not the way! If you want to reform the country, let us really compare the German Law on Protection of Competition and the Bulgarian Law on Protection of Competition. And I will draw your attention to a few minor gaps in our law, which have them in Germany, where the problem may start. It's not about people, it's about legislation. And I say again, any idea that we're going to put our people now is Bolshevism, Communism, and it's not going to do us any good. This is violence to the people's representation, violence to common sense, which sooner or later comes back. And because we want to stop this process for real, that is why we call on you: give. There was one more year of the work that your colleague told you, during that time, you could have easily changed the laws, you could have changed them, you could have shown us that you studied in the West. Because if you don't show us, we'll show you, that's okay. To change the laws in such a way as to obtain this political and legal certainty that everyone wants, and then to choose people who will well comply with the laws that we have made. And not by Bolshevik methods to change people that we, unfortunately, will have to remove. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u33	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. For the first line, Mr. Tsonev. Second line, Delyan Dobrev. And for the third line, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, to my friend and colleague Mr. Cholakov, my line is about a certain agreement with what you said that this should not be done in this way. But in so far as you have been in politics for one year and in GERB, I would like to remind you with a disdain that what they are doing now, GERB has done it 2009 - 2010. Exactly the same, even more brutal. The scrapper is absolutely all the footage that worked, professionals, not just in regulators, everywhere. Here from this tribune Tsvetanov boasted, every week he reported how many employees were expelled. I think 4,000 have succeeded in a month, some such figure has been reported by this tribune. And that is why in my speech, I have addressed all my colleagues - let us not only professionalise the regulators, the entire administration. Let's make sure these people don't shake when the power changes. And when I tell young colleagues from "We continue the Change" that almost all of your steps are a remake of what GERB 2009 - 2010, one to one, you are angry with me. Why?! Didn't you come to power with the promise that this wouldn't be done? [[Noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Ananiev, don't tell me what my line is, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u35	Not from the spot, Mr. Ananiev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u36	So I don't have to say any harsher words to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u37	The weather, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u38	Thank you. That's my line, Mr. Cholakov. I agree with you, okay, it doesn't have to be done, but it has been done, and that's why it shouldn't be done with more force now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u39	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Dobrev, you have the floor for a line. [[Reply from.. We continue the Change.]] I'm just taking turns in groups. [[Noise and lines.]] Can you mind your own business and I try to do what I have to do! Thank you. [[Noise and lines. Applause by GERB-SDS.]] Go ahead, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Cholakov, you should also tell your colleagues that they speak very well, I listened to the colleague before you, he is a good speaker, so they clapped at him from his group, I also hear him for the first time, only that their actions differ sharply with what they say. They talk very nice stories, and then they do very different things. And an example is KEWRC. So far, this majority has actually made a change in only one regulator in the KEWRC, as far as I remember. And this is the worst example of how to replace the composition of the regulator. You changed the law, set it up to answer your man, reduced the number of commissioners, so you took full control of this regulator, changed two people. For these two vacant positions applied only two people whom you had previously designated. These two people were very politically related to you. That is, you made the regulator not only dependent on the KEWRC, but also politically dependent, with bright political figures in it, because you took them from your ranks. And unfortunately, this regulator was previously independent. In my opinion, this was one of the best working regulators that you ruined, led by Ivan Ivanov, who was never even a member of GERB or a sympathizer of GERB, he was from DSB. Only he's been doing his job perfectly for about seven years. You have replaced it with some addicted people who have proven to be dependent on political orders. Do you know why? Because on March 31, the ERPs and the heat pumps made their demands... [[Noise and lines.]] It's got something to do They made their demands for an increase in prices. The practice is the month of April to publish... [[Replies from GERB-SDS and "We continue the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u41	Please! Mr. Cholakov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u42	Madam President, I request order in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u43	Order, please! Mr. Dobrev, your time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u44	So, Mr. Cholakov, it is practically early April to publish these applications of the ERPs. Between April 10th and April 20th, ten years ago, they've always been published. It's May 19th today, if I'm not mistaken. Not only have they not been published, we invited this same regulator to the Energy Commission yesterday and said: "Okay, don't publish them, tell us about them." [[the President signals that time has run out]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u45	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u46	Do you know why they're hiding them? Because they were asked for a 100-percent increase in both electricity and heating and everything else. And the politically dependent regulator...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u47	Time, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u48	...does not give this information to be heard by the Bulgarian society! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u49	Thank you. Mr. Cholakov's doppelganger. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go. Procedure in the manner of conduct, I suppose. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u50	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u51	There's a third line, excuse me. [[Noise and lines.]] Then it'll be procedure. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u52	Thank you, Madam President. My line is partly, even though it violates the Rules, and to you, but especially to Mr. Cholakov. I have carefully observed his actions in the National Assembly and for the first time I have seen him say things that I did not expect him to say. If we're going to measure by chug, it's so unworthy of you to say from the stands that you're bigger masters in chugping than anyone else, that I didn't expect a man who'd studied for four years in Germany to show us what a great master he is in chugping. This is with regard to your speech and I think you will take it back, as it is very, very unbeautiful. The second thing. I mean to those who talk about great professionalism, and especially in energy, there are always some suspenders here. What party wanted to sell CEZ to a man who didn't know anything about energy?! Your party! And your finance minister stood behind this man in front of TV and defended him! Or am I telling lies? The whole of Bulgaria was watching then and the whole procedure collapsed! Who showed you this ugly truth? The chairman of our parliamentary group! So now to threaten what will happen in a few months I did not expect you, Mr. Cholakov, as well as the chairman of the meeting to say: someone to mind their own business. And that was very unbeautiful, sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u53	No, I said, "Let me mind my own business."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u54	No, no, no, that's no way to talk from the stands. Please, please. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And so I ask you, as someone who really has a measure, has a serious knowledge, do not allow the tone of such an important bill to enter such a law, which is ugly for the entire National Assembly. Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u55	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Let me explain. Maybe I should have said, "Let everyone do their job because they tried to take away what I should be doing right now." So I apologize if you misunderstand me. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mr. Cholakov. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There's no way.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u56	Mr. Dobrev, first of all, let us remind our colleagues that KEWRC's choice is in the Constitutional Court and we will see how the Constitutional Court will rule. Professor Mihailov, whether you can do it legally and constitutionally, because you may not be able to. Professor Mihaylov, I think I said in the course of my speech that it was ironic if it wasn't understood. I guarantee you, we are not going to hug because it is low-level, because if there is a reform, it is done, as I said earlier, through legislation, not through Bolshevik methods, your people, our people and some other shenanigans that only increase the tensions in society and lead to no positive results. Mr. Tsonev, however, you know, almost every day, almost every day it is called GERB what they have done, that in fact this is a remake of me is offensive and I will tell you why, and I think it is not fair, and it is not true. This approach in Bulgarian politics we change some people with others, ours with yours and, as I said earlier, something that has always annoyed me: "Whose boy are you?" It is disgusting! People should be evaluated not by their professional qualities, but by their group belongings it is disgusting! This started, it actually started from 9 September, to be honest, and continued after 1989. You know very well what the SDS was doing, because we're people of age, then what the BSP was doing during Jean Videnov's time. I've seen some personnel perversions that were unthinkable, back in 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000. Then the king had a little peace of mind, there was some wisdom, and the regulators were not touched. Then maybe, as you say, it started again in 2009, 2010. But do you know what I'm thinking, and I feel like we're gonna have a little talk about this again today? You say, "GERB has managed us for 12 years." Why do you think GERB has managed for 12 years? Why? Because that's a long time. If the government was that bad, it certainly wouldn't have lasted 12 years. [[Arrival in "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] And I ask you, no, no, and I ask you, in my next speeches on this subject, and I ask you, DB, BSP and DPS, to put your hand on the heart and say, I do not know, you know: has GERB respected the opposition all these years? [[Reply: No!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u57	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u58	Because I have the feeling that many representatives of the opposition then, who are now a majority in this House, should not actually have a bad impression of GERB's governance. [[the President signals that time has run out]] I express myself very carefully. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u59	The weather, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u60	So these 12 years, I think, are the fruit of both a wise policy and a wise attitude towards the opposition. [[Heckling]] And if at first there were, as you say, any mishaps, they were very quickly corrected. In other words, GERB was already showing that he studied very quickly. [[Replying: "Search! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u61	The weather, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u62	Our task now is to learn these young colleagues so that we can avoid making mistakes and not have to deal with each other later. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u63	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Would you like another procedure, Mr. Tabutov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u64	Madam President! My procedure is with you on the way in which the current debate is being conducted.................... is precisely how you address the Members of the National Assembly. However, you have apologized, which is dignified, and I accept your apology, but I will ask you to be kind. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u65	Thank you. For the next speech, "Ekaterina Dimitrusheva." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u66	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u67	There's a record.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u68	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u69	Procedure in the manner of conducting Mr. Nastimir Ananiev. What if there are other procedures?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u70	I do, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u71	I wrote you down, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u72	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner in which you are directed. I understand that you were speechless by Mr. Rakshiev, but you still had to ask if there were any lines that you didn't do, so I'm going to ask you to keep an eye on what's going on in the room. And it also impresses you that you are not very often on the stand to lead, it is obvious, but follow the rules for everyone and do not turn around in the way that you have addressed the MPs, because when you do not do your job, we must ensure that you do your job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. After Mr. Rakshiev, I asked if there were any lines. There weren't any, and I continued with the next speech because there were a lot of recordings. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u74	Mrs. Chairman, I would like to address Mr. Cholakov through the procedure... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Okay, to you... [[Applause to President Rositsa Kirova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u75	Okay, turn to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u76	...on the occasion of Mr. Cholakov's reaction to colleagues from Mr. Cholakov was recently in the Legal Commission to present a bill to which he was an importer, and in relation to one of the statements of colleagues on the bill he exclaimed: "This is a monstrous aggression! I believe that Mr. Cholakov has shown the same aggression in this case. I know him as a balanced and well-mannered man, and I would appreciate it if you asked him and he apologized to his colleagues. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u77	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Next procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u78	Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u79	Go ahead, Mr. Shishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u80	...please don't let this stand cause fear. [[Shouting from GERB-SDS: "Oooh! "]] To make suggestions to scare people. I'm here because out of 67 people I asked to fill the leaves in Razgrad, 47 were afraid. Please don't let this happen, or you'll be in Mr. Ivanov's situation. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u81	Thank you, Mr. Shishev. Are there any other procedures? And since the last procedure was directed at me, I have never stimulated hate speech and instilled fear. What he used as images in his statement, Mr. Cholakov, he stressed several times that he used it with pain and irony. If it's not understood, I'll apologize on his behalf if that's enough, because your procedure was for me. We'll continue with the next speech. Catherine Dimitrusheva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u82	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members! We from "We Continue the Change" are one of the importers of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, because these changes are imperative and will have a positive effect. The KPC is an extremely important body that has the task of observing whether the conditions for competition in business are good and react if these principles are violated. This is extremely important so that consumers can obtain the best possible conditions on the market. We foresee a reduction in the term of office of Commissioners from seven to five years, and this is a fundamental change, as has already been mentioned by other Members. I would like to add that a shorter term leads to higher motivation, initiative and efficiency. We believe that the short term disciplines every administrative unit to work more quickly, more effectively, in the interests of citizens. The five-year term is a sufficient incentive for professionalism, objectivity and efficiency in the work of the Commission. So together with the other proposed changes in terms of expertise, with regard to the guarantees of independence of the body, we believe that this amendment and supplement law will contribute to the effectiveness of the Commission's work or, in other words, to the more effective spending of state funds in order to protect freedom of competition. And two objectives will be achieved: a disciplined and effective working administration that does not reassure itself that it can live in its jobs for seven years and protect free competition, therefore positive results for both business and consumers. In addition, I would like to respond to several comments from colleagues from GERB. I am extremely shocked that colleagues with so much experience speak so confidently but at the same time incompetent. In particular, the very names of the directives were cited...................................................................................................... This has also been written in the reasons for the change in the Law of 2021. Yes, I have read the directives, but nowhere in them have I found a text that states a specific requirement for the deadline. If there is one, I'd be happy to discuss it. And I ask you to quote, not the name of the directive, but the particular text that supports your statement. At the same time, there is some contradiction with your other claims that there are different terms of mandates in Europe, and in particular you claim that in France I repeat this not for another reason, but because Bulgarian citizens deserve to hear the truth from this tribune and not manipulations. "All Commissioners have a five-year term. This is the original of the Law. [[shows him]] , you can read it, I can quote you: the Commercial Code, Article EC 461, § 1, item 1. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European So I ask you to stick to what has actually been decreed, especially when we are talking about legislation. With regard to Germany, I have again noticed an inexactity and perhaps insufficient attention, perhaps incompetence I do not know, but there the authority is without a mandate, meaning it does not have a seven-year term. Germany definitely has a very specific federal government, and frankly, it is debatable whether it can be paralleled with it. These things I note precisely in order to clarify what the situation really is and not to come up with different statements that aim only to manipulate. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrusheva. Are there any lines to the statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u84	Thank you. Mrs. Dimitrusheva, as you understand, we will support your proposal because we believe that it is in the interests of Bulgarian citizens to have a strong KPC to fight the cartels. We are principled in this position, and unlike the other part of the opposition, we have no self-interest goals. Regarding the discipline of the management, I would like to tell you that it is not only the short term that disciplines, but also the mechanisms and possibilities for their withdrawal when they fail to perform their functions. I just want to open a note. We will make our proposals, which we believe could give value to this bill. One note "Do not allow the change of leadership of the KPC to be an opportunity for political appointments, because I believe that this is a committee that deserves to have high experts and thus will function properly, and you will achieve the results you would like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u85	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. Is there a second line? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u86	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Member, my reply is that I do not agree with what you have said from this platform, namely the transposition of the EU Directive 2019/1, which leads to a direct extension of the Commission's powers to protect competition and to increase the mandate during that period when it was increased in our time. Why? Therefore, because the Commission needed to build a new institutional experience and new additional functions for enhanced international cooperation were assigned, which was directly linked to the activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Next, do not tell the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian citizens that we are fooling them. Why am I saying this? Because such a legal opportunity with a seven-year mandate of European Union countries are: Italy, Finland, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, and as you said, Germany and Poland are without a mandate. Which suggests that it is the Commission for Protection of Competition that should not be a political appointment, it should not be, as did the Member a short time ago, in his statement of reasons, that it should not be for specific persons, but should work as a regulatory authority. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Stoev, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u88	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Dimitrusheva, you asked to be quoted as quoting a precise text from the directives by which the mandate needs to be increased to seven years. As the replicating lady before me said, there is really no such text. They are trying with some motive, which they have already stated, to motivate the lifting of the mandate from five to seven years, but the real reason is not that. The real reason is that the term of office of the Commission for Protection of Competition expired after the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly on June 2021, and the term of office of the National Assembly was in March 2021. It was precisely because of this reason and because of political instability it was clear that they would most likely not be able to elect a new composition of the KPC and have tried to concrete it for another two years, perhaps because it was too well executed their political orders. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u89	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. For the coat, Mrs. Dimitrusheva. For speeches are recorded: Krum Zarkov, Iskren Mitev and Emil Georgiev. Yeah, I'm writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman! My fellow Members, I would like to make a very short coat. I fully agree with what my colleague Stoyu Stoev said. With regard to allegations and all this comparison with other European countries, yes, Member States can determine themselves the structure of the authorities, the term of office, that is absolutely undeniable. However, it is controversial when specific numerals are used to suggest certain things that are not accurate. For example, for the Netherlands, yes, its President has a seven-year term of office, but the members of the Commission do not have a seven-year term of office. My only appeal is to be precise in order not to create any false suggestion. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrusheva. Mr. Zarkov, you have an opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u92	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I also thank Mrs. Dimitrusheva for bringing the debate back to where she belongs on legal amendments. We from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria have waited until now to hear all the arguments in order to express our position for one reason. We had this debate here more than a year ago. We opposed the extension of the term of the KPC when it was represented by GERB, and we had this debate, including in its European dimensions. And then, and now, for everyone it was obvious that a change is being made which is intended to make it possible to remain in office of people who no longer have a legal opportunity to do so, as their mandate expires and it cannot be renewed by law. And here it's really an insult to the intellect of the people who listen to us, to claim something else.... it was so obvious. Unfortunately, this really isn't a new practice. The game of thrones in Bulgarian politics often turns into a game of mandates and those mandates that should ensure the independence of a body actually enjoy the appointment of either comfortable people, or the removal, the removal of uncomfortable ones. This was also observed. Now, however, essentially and why we from the BSP remain in the same position that five years is the right term, and we will support the so submitted bill, which brings back the situation where it belongs. There has been a lot of talk about European legislation. European competition legislation is perhaps the most developed share of European law, and that is quite normal because the common market requires harmonisation in this area. In this order of thought, when someone says.. see the Bulgarian law or see the German law, let him know that the Bulgarian law and German law are essentially the same in this matter because European legislation is harmonised. It's one of his main subjects. And then, since the Bulgarian law and German law are the same, why is the competitive environment in Bulgaria and Germany not the same? The answer to this question gives an assessment of the work of the Commission on Protection of Competition. But there is one issue that European legislation in this area does not solve and remains from the competence of each country. And this is the structure and mandate of the body. Therefore, you can throw yourselves until tomorrow in which country is how it is arranged, in each country is arranged as it sees fit, with European legislation requiring that the body be effective and independent. Is the Commission for Protection of Competition effective and independent in Bulgaria is, unfortunately, a rhetorical issue. Therefore, this law is now necessary. It must be voted on and must be adopted in order to return the situation as it has been functioning for most of the time of the existence of the Law on Protection of Competition in Bulgaria, namely a five-year term, with the corresponding limitations for its repetition. But there are honourable Members of the majority, this time one important thing that we must recognise to the opposition. On this issue, now that we have adopted the Law, they can be useful. There is no way to circumvent or vicious nomination, a choice that is not known to the current opposition. Therefore, bearing in mind what has happened so far, let us adopt this law and make a really exemplary procedure for nomination and selection of quality, independent and well-known experts who ultimately give what the Bulgarian state needs, namely serious, genuine and creating confidence in the actors regulator of competition. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u93	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there holes in Mr. Zarkov? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, the line is very short, as I agree with most of the things Mr. Zarkov said to almost everyone. With only one, Mr. Zarkov, is KEWRC independent after the procedure we conducted?! Because the first step to change the regulator of the new majority is the KEWRC of the first regulator. If the first one is successful, okay, we're quiet. If you tell me he's independent now, we still have to keep quiet. My question, unfortunately, is rhetorical, but I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u95	Are there any other lines? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Mr. Zarkov, you're wrong. About the mandate and whether GERB the former rulers, as you have called us, know all the details of this type of election. I will tell you and remind you, because I am sure that you have probably institutional memory, but for the other Members who are first in the National Assembly: In 2016, when the selection procedure for the Commission for Protection of Competition was announced, GERB, with the power of the majority, had the opportunity to make a choice. Do you know, colleagues, how many applications were there? One and only of our colleague Rosen Zhelyazkov. You remember, honourable colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" then from the Reformation Block because together with the Reformation Block Mr. Martin Dimitrov and Mr. Delyan Dobrev submitted a proposal for termination of the procedure. Do you know why? Because Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov motivates his refusal to participate in this procedure because he is the only candidate and was not correct to participate in a competition with himself. You remember, Mr. Zarkov, don't you? That is, honourable Members, if everything else you have said about the management of GERB how procedures were conducted, when procedures were carried out, and to you, Mr. Zarkov, at least take an example of this, when by the power of the majority we had then, it was possible to choose anyone we didn't do this. On the contrary, a new procedure, new applications. And you know what else, especially you will probably be surprised, the opposition then participates and there are members of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Something that you are too incomprehensible as parliamentary life and a return to political pluralism. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Third line? I won't. For the coat, Mr. Zarkov, come in. In the meantime, to report Mr. Ananiev, I requested the transcript. After the end of Mr. Rakshiev's speech, I asked: "Is there any lines? There's no line, so you weren't right when you reprimanded me here from the stands. [[(Replies from]] Well, listen, I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable replicators! Dear Mr. Tsonev, is KEWRC independent? You can ask that question for any single regulator. It's always gonna come, it's always been coming, and it's the answer. What is certain is that when we go back to the KPC, the moment when we speak the change from five to seven was made, it had nothing to do with independence or anything else. It had in common with the end of one mandate, twice once the members of the KPC, once the majority itself and way of finding circumvention... [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Right, there's no question about it. Therefore, all the other answers, questions and doubts that you have towards regulators, to the current majority, in your role of opposition, you have the full right and must be constantly questioned and questioned. The KEWRC will still have to prove whether it is independent or not, and this will be one of the very big challenges, given what is happening from now on. Dear Mrs. Atanasova, first of all, one clarification, I have never called you a member of the Board of Directors. I called you a current appeal. [[(Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova:]] It's just not in my vocabulary. I have the feeling that it is important to note because, I repeat, as opposition and this, colleagues, is also part of the change, you have your role and we have to comply with it. What is happening today, and what you are saying about the KEWRC is that we need to hear these warnings in the forthcoming procedure. That's what I agree with. What I disagree with is the examples you give. I have a certain institutional memory indeed, and I can speak in the next thirty minutes safely, and not three, both for the procedures that you specifically mentioned, what was exactly the real situation and how it came to the designated solutions, and for the dozens of procedures that were the subject of a scandal. What I have to confess to you is that this is not your monopoly, it has been done before. The question is not to be done again. This game of exercising power by mastering positions that by law must be taken out of the political game, is a game in which everyone loses. Everyone! And those who play it now and those who have played it before and those who think they will play it again and the price is for Bulgarian citizens. And it is paid, in the case of the Commission for Protection of Competition, directly through their pocket. Directly through their pocket! So let's be responsible. Five years is a reasonable term of office - five years is a term which has proved itself in time, five years... must return this term, and from now on we stop playing with this game. By the way, its suspension does not go through a legal provision. It cannot be written in the law that you have to have some sense of reason and you have to follow principles and laws in your work, because every next majority will have the formal right to start playing two down, two up again. After all, there is no reason why trust in institutions is so low. I hope not with this debate, but with the procedure that follows, we will still contribute to raising it, not further down if there is any way. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u99	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Sincere Mitev, you're giving up. For the next speech there is the word Emil Georgiev. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u100	Dear Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members! Starting with the memories, I also want to introduce you to a memory that directly characterizes the effectiveness of the Commission for Protection of Competition. The TPP Maritsa East 2 is announcing a procurement order for the delivery of limestone. Those who do not know, limestone is used to neutralize sulphur dioxide when burning coal in the tecs. It is imperative that the purity of limestone is 96%. There are seven companies involved. The public order was won by GERB's favourite at that time. The person Prokopiev, it is written that it is supplied with limestone purity 56%. In my capacity as Chairman of the Economics Committee, I referred to the Commission for Protection of Competition. From there they kept silent, as it were said, as deaf men in love, neither received nor betrayed. I was forced to address the D.A.'s office. The public order was canceled. So this is how the Commission for Protection of Competition covered up the activities of close firms. I remind you that at that time Prokopiev had four ministers of its own... the regional development, the finance, the environment, the economy and the energy that were in one. Just to give an example to those who would like to replicate me. Since the cover-up of this person's activities for the last two years of his activity, he has supplied to The net profit is 30 million, with the concession fee to the state budget being 920 thousand. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u101	Mr. Georgiev, what does this have to do with the Bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u102	This has to do with the activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition and its effectiveness. There must therefore be a radical change in the activity of this service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u103	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines to Mr. Georgiev's statement? I won't. We move on to our next speech, Desislava Trifonova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Mr. Dimitrov, I was wondering why, since you are dissatisfied with the functioning of the KPC, instead of reducing the chair's mandate, do not put a hypothesis in the Law on early termination of powers due to failure to comply with the obligations of the President of the KPC and the members of the Commission. That would be the normal procedure. In that case, if you really think that the regulator does not work instead of cutting the mandate, asking for disciplinary proceedings and amending the Law so that you can do so. At the very least, you were going to take a huge political dividend out of this situation, but you're not. Article 5, para. 7 of the KPC Act says the following thing: The powers of the members of the Commission cannot be terminated on grounds relating to the proper performance of their duties or the exercise of their powers in the application of art. Art. 101, Art. 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I am sure you know what these two texts of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are. These are precisely the texts relating to competition rules, that is, you are currently circumventing the directive with this bill because of the inability to remove the President of the KPC, as the directive prohibits it. Isn't that right? Also very skillfully today you rulers have shifted the debate from the real focus. You are not interested in the competition in Bulgaria. You will neither restore competition nor fight for competition. The KPC is the body to which public procurement is being appealed, and you are in fact interested in controlling the body to which public procurement is being appealed. You have appointed a head of the APO a person who is an employee of a large chain of commerce without any experience in public procurement. Now you want to master the KPC with exactly the same idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Trifonova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u106	I believe that what you made as an appeal, or I do not know exactly how to address it to Mr. Dimitrov, is completely inappropriate because, as it became clear, What you have done, this is what they are doing with full force to date, absolutely all of them in all policies, all sectors, nothing new. The same disappearing of people, which in general terms, by the way, absolutely nothing faded, nothing changed as much in the judiciary as in any other sector. There is no reason for you to appeal to them to change the Bill in its part, in which there is an opportunity to remove members, whether a chairman or other members, provided that they want to respect the same thing that under GERB management their people, politically appointed, to carry out political orders and to fight over the new enemies, the new companies, to pass their companies. That's not gonna happen. That is precisely why, because the ruling thing will not do it, two of the representatives of the ARCHER Mr. Petrov and Mr. Taslakov, from this tribune clearly and accurately said that before a second reading we will make the necessary changes in order to be able to do so. Here is the moment for me to remind you that again, because the government deliberately does not hear, the same thing we imported five months ago and regarding the other major regulator, which is currently being appealed to the Constitutional Court. In order to be able to, when someone is obviously lobbying, do not perform his duties, when in one year he has done one check exactly, to be able to be recalled, to be called back from this room, from here, to be recalled and removed. The government won't do it, which is why we're bringing it in. I doubt it'll be accepted, but we'll set a good example of what we'll be doing in a few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. For the second line, Mr. Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Trifonova, your accents were two Clearly, in GERB, this word competition is difficult for you to understand as a whole, but what we continue to do is actually to have a truly competitive Bulgarian business and not dependent on. Because, along with the protests of transport, we see that there is an extremely dependent business that is used to receiving from the state, whether they are subsidies, whether they are public procurement, and it becomes uncompetitive. When left by this umbilical cord of the state you are so accustomed in much of the business, then he does not know what competition is. It cannot go on the market and compete normally, it relies solely on State aid. This isn't business. So, yes, we have a problem with the competition that there is no working body to show that there must be a working competition in Bulgaria and the business to feel that it is protected when there is a cartel when the bigger one smashes the smaller one and so on. Regarding the mastery, you a little guilty bastard flees, don't you. You've called in one way, you think in such a way, there's no way that the KPC, which everyone who's been following what they've been doing, and the examples that the colleagues have given about the signs that should have been conducted there, which were expected to be some concrete intervention and didn't happen if they used this as a KPC mechanism, too, there wouldn't be any surprises. The point is that that is why we want to make a change, because business wants a competitive environment, wants an independent body to guarantee this competitive environment, so that we can have a strong business, not only in Bulgaria, not only in Europe, but at a global level. So you're throwing out some things, you should have a good economic education, given what you've been doing, but don't talk in general and politically, but think about business. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u109	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. For the third line, Mr. Cholakov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Mrs. Trifonova, a recommendation to you or a proposal because you work very well with data and statistics. Please, come on in the coming days to do, we will help you, one reference in all the still active regulators in their membership are there any representatives who have ever been broadcast by BSP and DPS? That is, to see how then the government that elected these bodies with their majority respected the opposition and enabled the opposition to have its own members. In the Commission for Protection of Competition in its current composition, I see at least one nomination of the DPS and one nomination of the BSP, which you will change. So, colleagues, please be careful what you say.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u111	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. For the doppelganger? Mrs. Trifonova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u112	Mr. Ananiev, thank you for the line. Just one question. Were you not the Chairman of the Transport Commission of the National Assembly in 2014? And what term of GERB were you during? [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] Aha, 2016, sorry, correction not 2014 but 2016, after you were part of the GERB model, commendable. We will be happy to see Mr. Petar Slavov's candidacy or those related to law firms close to the government by "Democratic Bulgaria" to see what will happen in the race, as we think it will be very interesting. Only not to get the situation as it was with BNB at the last moment to fight and again to look for GERB. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Trifonova. To speak, Desislava Atanasova. You have the floor, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group will not support your proposal for a change in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Competition. Firstly, because this change will not provide protection of competition, as is the main mission of this committee and as is the main objective of the Law on Protection of Competition. Secondly, because this change is not highlighted by the fact that the Commission for Protection of Competition will work better, on the contrary. And since we have to say that in this Chamber, which many talk about how it was chosen, when it was chosen, by whom it was chosen, I gave you some data not only statistically about the time when GERB and the Reformation bloc as participants in the government chose the composition of this committee, but not only. I would also like to name the others in the composition of this committee by whom they are raised and by what consensus the composition is elected so as to ensure that there will be no political representation or representation of the majority, whether it is a coalition. Mr. Vitanov, for example, was proposed by the Reformation bloc then, now in the ruling majority. Mr. Kirov of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, broadcast when the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was also an opposition party. Mrs. Anna Yaneva, representative of the opposition then Bulgarian Socialist Party, Mr. Kyumurdzhiev, part of the Patriotic Front, and Mr. Zafirov of the BDZ, at that time part of the Bulgarian Parliament. This is just another proof, honourable Members, that such a body, which guarantees protection and freedom of competition, does not need to be elected by the power of the majority to fill party quotas, it is not necessary, because it will lose its fundamental quality to guarantee freedom of competition and market freedom. Why, honourable Members, do you understand the change to a more transparent competition conditions only by changing the mandates of the members of the KPC? I have listed you from which parliamentary groups, when the choice is made, have been broadcasted and that there has been money of all political quotas, because you expect that you will subdue this committee and it will make some likely right decisions in your opinion, as is happening with other committees. The question of why you are starting with the mandate of the Commission for Protection of Competition is even more powerful, especially in the context of the fact that at the beginning of each session the President of the Bulgarian Parliament is counting on the attention of the national representation all positions for which the National Assembly needs to hold a choice and fill its quotas, more than 20 are. However, you prefer to start with a change of the Energy Act and master the KEWRC, you prefer to start with a change in the Law on Protection of Competition and to master the KPC. We'll see how this ends either way. Besides, I'd like you to pay attention, colleagues, and one more thing. During the whole of the current composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition, as I said, it functions without a clearly stated political quota and expert, and this has been proven over time. More than 95% of the decisions of this committee have been taken by consensus, by voting you can pay attention, there is sufficient information on these processes on the Commission's website. Something else, the same percentage is of the decisions confirmed by the Supreme Administrative Court, that is, this committee in its decisions has subsequent judicial review, and it has judicial control by an institution which is called upon to monitor the legality of the decisions taken by the authorities of the government, so there is no better litmus than that court confirms these decisions. And finally, for example, I was interested in what exactly the KPC is doing right now. Open the site, gentlemen, and consider whether there is any connection between the complaints received by the Commission for Protection of Competition and your haste to change its composition. Is this related, for example, to the appeal for a monopoly and dominant position of Lukoil (Lukoil) or to the complaint with regard to the price of the medicinal products or the abuse of the monopoly position of the NPP (Kozloduy) or the complaint with regard to the concentration of BTC? Think about these questions, because these questions, if they do not get their answer now, will stand with greater strength and will be asked more fiercely not by the opposition, but by all those who have an interest in doing business in Bulgaria, and business in the light, and business in the light of rules when you choose a new composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Replies to Mrs. Atanasova's statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Mrs. Atanasova, why the KEWRC? Because it didn't work either because we were dependent on Gazprom and many others. Why the CDC? Because it didn't work! Do I remind you of an oil hysteria or an oil hysteria with some fuel prices on the gas stations? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u117	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Second line? Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u118	Mrs. Atanasova, you couldn't explain KEWRC well. They reduced the composition so that two representatives would be elected. For both places there were two candidates, i.e. one person was fighting for each place. They managed to take over all control of the KEWRC by one party. The control of the KEWRC is currently being held by "We are continuing the Change" and they are responsible for all decisions taken in this body. This body was independent, as was the KPC, and we will see what will become after they make their choice. Now he's addicted, and only one party, and do you know the difference? Until becoming dependent only on PP, this body was transparent, not only during GERB time, twenty years this body was transparent. Do you know what happened when I got under the control of the Change that would have been the most open? Well, they've sealed off everything, including the ERP applications and heat exchange, so people won't hear how much electricity and heat will go up. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u119	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Third line? Mr. Ananiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u120	Mrs. Chairman! Mrs. Atanasova, I'm curious to know what you think of the KPC. Is there any features it can now use in relation to high inflation? Has she taken any attitude as a Commission regulator in relation to high inflation, is she doing anything about it? Your example of complaints is very interesting because there have always been complaints, but it turns out that there have never been cartels in Bulgaria, because in the last 10 years both for fuels and for medicines and for what there are no complaints and we do not see cartels, but we all see the same prices of many products in gas stations and elsewhere. So the question isn't whether there are complaints, the question is, is anyone working on them and doing their job? Unfortunately, we do not see such a thing, and that is why we need to make a change. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u121	Thank you. For the doppelganger? Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. First of all, Mr. Ananiev, you surprise me very much that you have no idea how the institutions in the country really function. To say that the CDC is responsible for inflation and that it's not self-serving because of inflation, it's just insane. Secondly, it can be considered between first and second readings, perhaps our parliamentary group will make proposals in this direction..................... to have a similar type of mechanism, but this is in the future. With regard to the line on camera policy. My fellow Members, it is clear to us that you in the coalition agreement have recorded that you will have a single personnel policy, that is, you are absolutely convinced that you will politically control those authorities, which are now forcibly changing their mandates just to change people inside. And with regard to the first line, about the hysteria of fuel prices, the hysteria of oil prices, I will only say one thing: that Mrs. Ninova was the deputy prime minister who committed to fighting speculation at these prices. She announced in several TV interviews that it was speculation at the price of oil everything above 2.50. If you open the website of the Committee on Stock Exchanges and Trades, which is directly subordinate to Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister Ninova, or go to look at the Board of the Ministry of Economy, you will see that the fight against speculation is going with full force "The wholesale prices are above 5.50." [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] In this sense, I believe that all claims that this is the backstage of the Youth GERB, which led to fuel prices above 3.25, above 3.35 high-quality, 3.50 and so on, is a good example of how the government is now demonstrating anti-crisis measures, taking into account the strength of the Youth GERB. That's what I say with a smile, Mr. Manev. It does not sound serious that you really do not understand what this debate is about and what we have told you from all the representatives of political forces who have spoken so far, including parts of the ruling coalition. Mr. Zarkov was correct and warned you the fruits will pick them, they will rot again. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. For the last speech Mr. Georgi Ganev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u124	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I, as well as a few of those who have spoken so far, may start from a little review of the personal biography. In 2016, I was one of the proposed candidates for a member of the Commission for Protection of Competition, proposed by Mr. Dimitrov, the so-called civil or non-party quota. I am saying this not to comment on any things from the past, but because then, just taking this application seriously, I met once more in detail with the Law on Protection of Competition, with the role of the Commission, as described in the Law, what professional obligations will be and so on. What I can say in view of one of the great criticisms against this bill, namely that the Law should be corrected and not to touch people, is that unfortunately, the Law is good. This is especially to my very respected colleague Radomir Cholakov. There is no assessment of this law, seen by an external expert, whether Bulgarian or foreign, within the European Union, within the framework of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, this law was also seen when joining the ERM-2, there is no assessment that says that the Law is bad. Under this law Bulgaria should have a wonderful competitive environment and it is not. There's hardly any doubt about that here in this room. I do not think there is anyone present to say that in Bulgaria the competitive environment is good. It's not good! Everywhere a person looks, distortions; everywhere a person looks, there are dubious influences on the markets and so on. So it's not the problem in the Law, but reality clearly shows a problem. What's going on? Well, as always in Bulgaria, colleagues, something that also does not exist in an outside observer, whether from Bulgarian or abroad, which looks and does not say that that is the problem, the problem is the implementation of the Law. That's the problem in Bulgaria. And to my great regret, in disagreement with colleague Cholakov, implementation is a matter of people. Yes, the law is not a matter of people. It would be wonderful if you could, just by writing a beautiful law, suddenly reality would become beautiful, only it would pass through people. So what kind of people are they good, or are they ours, or someone else's, is of great importance. And making sure again that, of course, the Democratic Bulgaria is going to support this bill, I promise solemnly from this tribune that if a Democratic Bulgaria offers applications for members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, the main criterion will be for them to be good people and absolutely last we will care who they are. Exactly as already mentioned repeatedly in this Chamber Mr. Ivan Ivanov is exactly the kind of candidate proposed by the people who are currently in "Democratic Bulgaria." There's not one person who says this guy's no good. [[Noise and lines GERB-SDS.]] That's right, exactly. So these are the kind of people we're going to propose to the next crew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Dimitrov, for a line, please. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u126	I have a line for Mr. Ganev. Dear Mr. Ganev, I have a line for you. I have the following question: Please explain to me if there are theoretically cartels or cartels in Bulgaria and there are no on-the-spot checks or there is one for 2020, there are no joint shares with the NRA, we asked: do you share shares with the NRA? No, they said we're using their database, but there's no such joint venture. They have no joint shares with the Ministry of Interior the current composition of the KPC. And it's gone! I mean, how can the cartel be caught in this situation if it's there and where it is? The only conclusion I come to is if the representatives of this cartel come to the KPC and say, "Good afternoon! We're a cartel, we're coming to get us. [[Heckling]] And if you think otherwise, Mr. Ganev, please explain. And again, I ask you, are these good practices, can it continue like this, what ways do you think there should be to take measures against such distortions of competition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u127	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Is there a second line? Mr. Ganev, will you do the back? [[(Reply from DPS: Mr. Ganev, Mr. Dimitrov is a good man.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u128	Yeah, he's a good guy. Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Dimitrov, not only what you say about joint checks with other institutions, which, of course, is quite possible within the framework of, once again, the well-written law. These opportunities have not been used over the years. As far as we understand in the Commission's hearing, when I visited your committee, because I am not a member, there are no corresponding econometric models that can send signals when something is too different from what should be the normal development of things, including prices in different market niches in Bulgaria. No such model has been developed. One would expect, come on, if not developed, at least to benefit from a loan from colleagues from around the world where there are developed such models. Don't act like it! On several occasions, because many times over the years have been investigated, especially the fuels in Bulgaria, a monopoly is sought where quite obviously a cartel should be sought. These are two very different animals. And we can keep going and keep going. But I will finish with a line that my colleague Vladislav Panev has just given me. He said, "No matter what the color of the cat is, it is important to catch mice. " [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Michal Kambarev is also listed for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u130	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will allow myself a very short line. It's true about cats and mouse hunting, it's important that the cat goes out hunting more often. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] This debate, unfortunately, was not very interesting, because the opposition that does not support this bill, with all due respect to you, in such a helpless state, I have not seen you before. [[Laughter]] I'm going to make a very short summary of what I saw. First, it was the groundbreaking that the mandate should not be reduced from seven to five years. [[(Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova:]] It doesn't matter. [[(Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova:]] I saw you couldn't defend your argument. Both Mrs. Dimitrusheva and the other colleagues said about good European practices and what actually brings the result. Then we started defending why the KPC actually worked and how well they did their job. I think that both Mr. Dimitrov and Mr. Rakshiev had enough examples with which this debate was stopped. Now the last speeches, they are already scattered and listening to stories from 1001 night, which we are even listening to about the KEWRC, and this is not about the KEWRC at all. So I think the debate is already coming to an end, which is a joyous one, and perhaps I hope to reform this body very soon. Regulators in a country should be on the side of justice and provide an honest and equal battle. In Bulgaria, however, they have become a repressive body used by a handful of people. The KPC, instead of the Commission for Protection of Competition, has now become the Commission for Protection against Competition. And I'll give you two very brief examples. We've already heard that the KPC may not be able to address and not work, not go to checks, do one for a year. We've heard they can report where they want to. Here, I will give you two more cases in which they have chosen to be passive. The case of Bullstom, where at the beginning of this year the KPC was supposed to decide whether concentration and change in control of Bullstom's capital was carried out. A month before the transaction, one of the parties shall submit to the KPC a request to carry out an inspection, but the Commission shall refuse to carry out such an examination without indicating any strong and specific reasons. In the end, of course, the Administrative Court shall rule with or without this opinion of the KPC. One more example. The so-called Railway Thrace is about the railway line Plovdiv Burgas. The project is funded by European funds under the Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure" and is worth nearly 200 million. One consortium of two companies is being established. One firm is, let's say, famously close to GERB, the other is a Polish firm. It is involved in a public procurement where the Polish company had to provide documentation that it could actually handle and indicate a reference project. She pointed out a reference project and provided documents that were subsequently false. The KPC has been referred to. You are hardly surprised if I tell you that the result is the same................... the KPC does not take absolutely no action, no checks, nothing. They decide to be passive. [[Heckling]] Dear Members of Parliament, it is sad, but we see the same pattern repeating and repeating and repeating, and for a short time I would call it the behind-the-scene model. What's he like? We've got some regulators, we've got the D.A.'s office, we've got all the authorities in the state, and we're choosing who's to take action and who's to be passive. In fact, isn't this the pattern the prosecution is acting on right now? Isn't this the model the KKCONPI was operating on? We're seeing exactly the same behavior from the CDC right now, and from the rest of the controlled regulators. Dear Members of Parliament, I believe that the people rely on us and step by step to restore normality and make sure that these state structures are not used by a handful of people for protection. To those who are reasonable in this House, I call on you to support the changes and for the KPC from the Commission for Protection from Competition to become once again the Commission for Protection of Competition. To those who I see are very worried, I have questions: why are you afraid, why do you insist that this leadership remains, which we have found does not seem to be aware that there is an inspection in 2020, which stops arbitrary cases? If you're really afraid that a normality will come in, I assume that in a few minutes we'll find out that we have bad news for you. Maybe it's another body that will start working! If you're still afraid that some of your people are going to be out of work, I think that this problem might be solved. Mr. Geshev showed how the regulators can collect people and appoint them to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u131	Mr. Kambarev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u132	I assume there are more states available. [[Laughter]] Thank you. I hope this regulator will start functioning normally as well. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u133	Are there any lines? I won't. There is no record of any other comments. That concludes the debate, we'll move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 47-254-01-39, tabled by Stoyu Stoev and a group of MPs. They voted 209 MPs: 141, against 67, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I give the floor for a negative vote to Manoil Manev, to Hristo Gazhev and Delyan Dobrev. After that, colleagues, I'll give it a rest. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, order in the court! [[People from..We are continuing the Change.............................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u135	You're running too fast, guys! You run too fast not to hear what you have to hear after all this debate. You've talked about heroism from this stand, about determination, about everything, what you're great, what you're gonna do. In fact, you have done several very fast things... you have put bars to the National Assembly out of heroism, out of fearlessness. Mr. Kambarev of this tribune was explaining in a edifying tone how we were, helpless? You'll see the helplessness this afternoon. A complaint has been filed with the National Assembly and the Commission on which he is chairman for racketeering. He doesn't want to let her into the Commission. That's fearlessness. He won't allow it, because inside it is about the Prime Minister for business management. [[noise and lines]] It's written clearly, precisely and specifically. [[Voices by "Keep On Changing": "Oooh!"]] That's heroism! That is why I voted against, because the hypocrisy of this tribune must ultimately have limits. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u136	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u137	Dear Mr. President, first of all, I would like to address you and Mr. Kambarev a little bit in the role of a procedure in the manner of conduct, because on 11 March I deposited a signal through the National Assembly's Office to the Committee on Anti-Corruption of Parliament on Corruption in the Ministry of Defence. There has been a parliamentary issue on this issue since 11 March, it is now 19 May. According to the Commission, the signal was not even received, but was submitted to the Ministry of Industry and was sent through the National Assembly. That's why I'm asking you to look into what happened and why this signal is suddenly gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u139	By the way, he reached out to the prime minister, the prime minister ordered it to be checked, but the Parliamentary Commission did not. I hope you'll answer that at a later stage. Why did I vote against? I voted against because one bill of exactly three paragraphs concerns only the control of another regulatory authority as it did with the KEWRC. As I told you in the debate with the KEWRC, this makes mistakes, this is done for certain people. Like back then, I had a white envelope with nominations, and now it's probably gonna be the same envelope again. I can make a reasonable assumption that all the work you have taken today is being done for someone, for a certain person, in this case for two, or rather there will be a new clash, as with BNB, only this time between a failed candidate for a member of the [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] So I expect this to happen here, as well as with the BNB, a battle to control and power between the ruling coalition. This will in no way fulfil the threats and wishes for better and better quality work of the regulator, which were highlighted by those who will sign these candidates. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u140	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against it because of our bad experience with the KEWRC. I am afraid that in the case of the KPC we will get the same "an independent body will become a politically dependent body, a transparent body will become a completely opaque body and we will hide everything that is important for the Bulgarian society, you will hide everything that is important for the Bulgarian society, behind your political appointments in these bodies, as you did in KEWRC. For the last time today, I would like to repeat that on 31 March the applications of the ERPs and the CEWR were submitted to the CEWR for an increase in electricity and heating prices. I repeat, March 31 this year! Today is May 19, two months later! Not only have you not announced them, but yesterday's Commission on Energy, the Permanent Parliamentary Commission, the representatives of the KEWRC most courageously refused to provide this information, and you, the majority, voted that you did not want to receive it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u142	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. With this, we have exhausted item one of the agenda of the day. Before we go to point two, I'll give you half an hour's rest until 12.10. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u143	Honourable Members, I shall resume the meeting of the Assembly. The next item on the agenda is: PROJECT OF A DECISION FOR THE PRE-DEPENDENT EXEMPTION OF MICROSLAV IVANOV AS A DEPARTMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. I ask one of the importers to develop the arguments on the draft decision. Mr. Cholakov, will you take the attitude? Here you go. [[Reply from the National Representative Radomir Cholakov: "How much time do I have? "]] You've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u144	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS I will argue our proposal for an exemption from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Miroslav Ivanov. First, however, I would like to address my colleagues from BSP and ask them: colleagues from BSP, do you think that Mr. Dimitar Glauchev is a respectable person? And I'm sure your answer would be yes. For young colleagues to say, Mr. Dimitar Glauchev was Chairman of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, who once took the floor of the opposition leader Mrs. Cornelia Nino. The next day he resigned and she was accepted, although the majority might not accept it. This is what is called a worthy President of the National Assembly and a worthy person. If you want to learn about parliamentaryism, here is an example of GERB, which you can follow. Colleagues, I would also like to draw attention to one feature in the election of the President and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. According to the parliamentary procedure, a person is elected by the largest parliamentary group and the deputies are broadcast directly by the political groups and are voted anbloc. This means that they are not elected by name because of their pre-known qualities, and each parliamentary group broadcasts its members who believe they will be worthy to take these positions. The National Assembly shall vote on trust and vote on trust in advance. This trust of the Members of the National Assembly must yet be justified and the elected persons may justify it or not justify it. We in the group of GERB-SDS believe that Mr. Vigenin, Mrs. Nalbant and Mrs. Kirova, at whom the President occasionally allows to lead the meetings, justify their vote of confidence and behave in a balanced and responsible manner. Unfortunately, Mr. President seems to have a special regard for Mr. Atanasov and especially Mrs. Iva Miteva and Mr. Tsoncho Ganev, who do not recall having led a meeting in this National Assembly. Mr. Minchev in this regard is biased and I hope that the next days will be corrected by granting the right to lead the meeting of the National Assembly equal among its deputies. But we in the GERB-SDZ group believe that our colleagues from "We are continuing the Change" that Mr. Ivanov does not justify the trust that you made us vote on him. You can see that his way of leading the meetings is causing conflicts and problems. This is evidently due to his character, which does not allow him to discern the functions he has to perform and the nature of the work he has been assigned to him. Apparently, sitting in the chair of the chairman, he's starting to think he's the boss. This is thinking that urgently must be eradicated, by the way, both in it and in anyone who sits in this chair, including the chairman. It is often said that the President is first among equals, and sometimes this is also mechanically transferred to his deputies. And I will quote to you another thought that you may have heard somewhere: The one who wants to be first among you, let him be your servant. This chair, fellow Members, is the most important chair in our parliamentary republic, and whoever sits in this chair has to tell himself every time: "If I want to be accepted for the first time, I must be an employee of these people and serve well. To serve this chair well means to have wisdom, to have empathy, to exercise tact. When you have to be strict, but to be hard on your own first, not the political opponents of the group that broadcast you. This means to operate by party biases, to be ready to serve the common good, to dissolve yourself in the idea of the assembly of the Bulgarian people, which is the National Assembly. Not everyone can do that. It's not given to anyone. It's a great political talent. And if Mr. Miroslav Ivanov doesn't have that talent, there's no point in torturing him. If Mr. Ivanov has not raised these qualities in himself in five months, if he thinks that sitting in the chair, he becomes the head of Mrs. Atanasova or Mr. Karadayi, or Mr. Kostadinov, or anyone else in this room, then he obviously is not fit for this job and the most dignified and reasonable for. By the way, we have noticed colleagues in your parliamentary group who, with their speeches from the stand, have been impressed that they have good political qualities and would do better if you entrusted them with this post. This will be good for the prestige of your parliamentary group. We say it with good faith, and we offer you with good faith to consider this proposal of ours. We're not trying to insult anyone. Mr. Ivanov should know that we would all respect him more if he resigned from the vice-presidential seat voluntarily than if he were to be insulted. I hope that you too, out of misunderstood solidarity with him, will not get involved and once again demonstrate to us the power of the majority, because the feast victories of the majority in this Parliament are beginning to have too high a price. Unfortunately, as we observe, you do not intend to be better than GERB, or even half as good as GERB. You seem to be intoxicating yourself with the ability to consume power and you think you're allowed anything. I ask you once again to replace Mr. Ivanov with another member of yours and to allow us to maintain respect for him and for you. If, by the power of the majority, you reject this proposal, we allow ourselves to assume that Mr. Ivanov will develop even more irreconcilable self-confidence and self-confidence and he, instead of taking a note, will begin to exhibit the worst traits of his character to retaliate against the opposition, to have to and even more to try to prove to us that he is a boss, which he is not. Then things will escalate and you will wonder why it is so difficult to work in this Parliament and so difficult to reach an agreement. I'm telling you right now why. Because the one or those you put up there must first show and prove that they respect us. If they don't respect us, we have no reason to respect them, and we have no reason to respect those who broadcast them. The opposition is not here to praise the government, but to criticize it. The government and the ruling majority, if they are wise and want their governance to be lasting, must first learn to respect the opposition. GERB has ruled for 12 years, as mentioned earlier, among other things, because he knew to respect the opposition, and I know that there are people in this room who had the opportunity to feel this in previous mandates. You won't have that much time to study. Study quickly and show that you respect the opposition. If you don't want to learn to respect the opposition, I don't want to say this, but very soon you will have to learn where the way to the door is. In short, we suggest that Mr. Ivanov release him or you release him from the vice president's seat, he apologizes to Mrs. Atanasova, and we promise that we will send him with applause. This, ladies and gentlemen, is one of those rare moments where characters are tested and it is understood who has the right to rule the country and who does not. GERB at such moments has demonstrated the character that gave him the right to rule for 12 years, and if so God will give him more. Now it's your turn to show if, what, and how much you deserve. Consider wisely! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u145	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. I'm opening a discussion. For procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before you find the debate, someone has to present the reasons. Have you guys heard motives so far? [[(Reply from..) We continue The Change........................................)]] One of the importers, please come out and present the reasons. I didn't hear any motive. I have heard findings, lessons, a return to the past, and we will also talk about this topic, Mr. Cholakov, about everything you have said, you will receive speeches from the BSP parliamentary group. But motives, if you'd at least thought of one, you'd have said so. I didn't hear motives. I see that the importers are more than 50 people. 60 people. I'm asking one of them in the room to come out and present the motives. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u147	Mr. Svilensky, the time that has been set aside under the rules of reasoning has been exhausted. So the first statement is from the President of the National Assembly. Mr. Minchev, come in. [[(Extreme applause) (Extreme applause) (Extreme applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Ivanov! We are facing a procedure under art. 5, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for resignation, in the case of Vice-President of the National Assembly. The resignation shall be requested.. is thus stated in the grounds for systematic overshadowing of the rights and systematic failure to comply with the duties of Vice-President. In fact, the only thing missing is objective inability, thank God. In the case of so-called motives, you may expect there to be a number of violations describing multiple infringements in the exhibition. This is not the case with the motives which, as Mr. Svilensky said, were not presented to us in fullness, but let us consider them. In practice, there are 3 specific infringements described in the reasoning. Outside the blanquet claims, let's say that the President of the National Assembly does not assist in the purpose of art. 77, para. 2. He's helping him out. I'm making it very clear. The specific facts of objective reality that are described are the following and consider them chronologically, although another approach is chosen in the reasoning: The first case concerns the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 1 March 2022. The more memorable Then Mr. Ivanov imposed a penalty for the chair of the parliamentary group Kostadin Kostadinov. What do we see in motives? The Council of Presidents also ruled on March 1st that there were no grounds for it to be imposed..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 159, para. 3 of the Rules have considered this remark and have spoken, confirming it, canceling or amending it. That's not true. Mr. Kostadinov did not dispute his remark and it remained valid. In this sense, it remains unclear to me what exactly lies behind the wording of the Conference of Presidents that there are no grounds. But let's move on to the next one. The next case is from April 15, 2022, when Mr. Ivanov imposed a request to the National Representative Kostadin Angelov. Indeed, that remark was challenged and then repealed by the Conference of Presidents. That's right! But that remains the only one. To get to the third case described in the reasoning that concerns last Friday, the 13th. What happened then? We had a statement from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. Okay. Then a representative of the Council of Ministers Mr. Asen Vassilev took the floor and spoke on the same topic. What is the framework of the declaration in the Rules of Procedure? In general, very scarce only art. 48, para. 5 settles the matter of the declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. And the only thing he says is that it's on a subject that's not on the agenda and that it lasts 10 minutes. Is there a problem with having two declarations on the same subject in one sitting? I won't. And it's happened. What is the framework for the speeches of the representatives of the Council of Ministers? Article 59. Can the representatives of the Council of Ministers speak on items off the agenda? They can. Is it settled in art. 59 that this must not necessarily be on topics that are affected in a declaration? No. That is, as there may be one and the same subject affected in two declarations within one meeting, it may also be the representative of the Council of Ministers to speak on the same subject within the same meeting. That is exactly what happened, because it is not an item on the agenda, so each of the parliamentary groups is then entitled to a 5 minute attitude. This, by the way, Mr. Ivanov stated it explicitly, while Asen Vassilev's statement was still under way that the parliamentary groups would then have the opportunity to be treated. What happened from there? Procedures in the manner of conduct. As usual! In this procedure in the way in which Mr. Ivanov finally took the floor of Mrs. Atanasova, the procedure began with It must be to the President and tell him where he has committed a specific violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is, of course, taking place. That is why this opportunity is also envisaged. In practice, Mrs. Atanasova's statement was of the nature of the previous statement by Mr. Vassilev. Does this give Mr. Ivanov the right to interrupt and take the floor of the speaker when he does not speak on the subject? Yeah. So is there a violation? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Applause from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", and "DB."]] From this point on, there is also an impression of the reasons that Mr. Ivanov said that he caused a disturbance in the Chamber at the time. Mr. Ivanov or whoever he is alone can hardly cause a disturbance. In general, riots may cause a group of MPs heading for the stands. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] This can cause riots in which to have to give rest to calm the passions. But have you been impressed by the factual situation so examined that there is a system, and twice, that there is a breach of rights and a breach of obligations? I didn't stay, I didn't even get the impression that there was, namely systemity required, colleagues! That is precisely why I firmly believe that, in the present case, the request is deprived of substantive grounds in order to realise the responsibility of the Vice-President. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] Since the issue of the chairmen of the parliamentary groups is also very concerned here, I would like to say a few words about this too. For these five and a half months in which we are in the National Assembly, I have personally taken note, and I believe my colleagues also that the role of the chair of the parliamentary group is extremely significant and very responsible and I say it well to all seven chairmen of parliamentary groups. Your role is heavy! In practice, the chairman of the parliamentary group is the captain of the team and jumps for the team, and the team jumps for the captain. Great, there's nothing wrong with that! This importance of the Chair of the Parliamentary Group allows and can justify a higher degree of tolerance when it comes to minor violations of the Rules of Procedure. I give an example: do not interrupt as soon as time runs out. By the way, this is exactly what happened last Friday. The declaration, which reads Mrs. Atanasova, which should be within 10 minutes, lasted over 12 minutes. That's right, Mrs. Atanasova, over 12 minutes. Is there a formal basis for the President to interrupt the speaker at this time? There are art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 2 of the Rules give it. Did you do it? You didn't! You didn't do it right! I think so. Because that's the spirit! This is the spirit of respect for all MPs, for the opposition, for the chairman of the parliamentary group of the largest opposition party, and also for parliamentaryism and political pluralism, which is otherwise said to have violated here. Here I can even go back to the first session of this Parliament, but not that, the solemn which took place on 3 December 2021, but the first one to regularly call it, on 8 December, when I took the word of Lyuben Dilov quite quickly after the time ran out, and Mr. Tsonev came out and gave me a procedure in the manner of conduct. I finally accepted it. And Mr. Ivanov accepted it, too. And that's the spirit! And I believe that we respect it, both me and all my deputies, including Miroslav Ivanov. However, even this slight violation of the formalities of the Rules of Procedure still cannot justify the chairmen of the parliamentary groups to speak in a manner which is not entirely in line with the Rules. I mean, in the context of a procedure to make a statement, because I just mentioned the captains, the master can talk to the judge, his teammates can't, but his captain is being fouled for the same violations. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] In conclusion, I would just like to say one thing. As chairman, I believe that Mr. Ivanov handled these situations. The Parliamentary Group of "We Continue the Change" stands firmly behind Mr. Ivanov, I also believe that now is the time to express this support to Mr. Ivanov with applause. Thank you. [[(Shouting:) Bravo! We are continuing the Change and applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP for Bulgaria" and "DB." The People's Representatives from "Keep On Changing" are becoming right. Long applause.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u149	Thank you, Mr. Minchev. Are there any lines? Mr. Mitev, do you want a line? You will wait for a statement because before you is Yordan Tsonev. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u150	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Minchev, on the one hand, you have made it easier for me, on the other hand, you have taken the whole statement........................ especially for the letter and the spirit of the law, but I will repeat it. Colleagues, in my humble but long practice in this Chamber, I have participated in such procedures many times, and to request the resignation of a President, and the resignation of a President, and a procedure that does not pass, and for Vice-Presidents, and I would like to share with you that this is one of the most unpleasant procedures. Because those we choose to lead, to be the first among us, even if we didn't vote for them, and in most cases we all vote for them, that is the tradition, we somehow support them, we have given them the right to lead our meetings, and even if we are from different parties and from opposition, we have some degree of trust and respect for these people. Therefore, this procedure, if I must say in slang, is very heavy for each of us. And today, for me, this procedure is like this. But do you know why this procedure is being done? My inference and every time we do it, and it is unsuccessful or successful, to some extent this procedure improves the work. It's unfortunate that you put personal moments into it. There is one person among us who sometimes has to endure undeserved and personal attacks. I hope this does not happen today, because this young man, although we want his resignation, does not deserve to be strictly tried, because as you judge, so you will be judged... is said in the same place, Mr. Cholakov. The quote Mr. Cholakov gave is from the Gospel of Mattea, chapter twenty, verse 27. [[Noise.]] So I won't let myself attack anyone. On the contrary, I will allow myself to agree with most of what Mr. Minchev said and to compliment once again that I am also surprised by how he conducts the meeting. Because there is no experience about this position here wants experience, except knowledge. My surprise came just when I made this note at the first withdrawal of a man's word from the opposition, he then didn't take the floor. I'm talking about the chairman. And there were numerous and frappany violations of the Rules of Procedure. Okay, I may have missed, right, we don't stay in the gym all the time. But I don't recall him taking the word away from Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova. Correct me if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u151	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u152	This is very important. I don't remember him taking away our chairman's word, even though he made notes. When I said the Ruler, let's get back to the Rules. Our rules, of course, have the status of law, and here is the place to talk about the letter of law. The majority of the President's speech was about the letter. Okay, the letter is correct. Why are lawyers also talking about the spirit of the law? The letter! Let's just watch the letter! You speak because you know that there is a spirit in a law other than members and paragraphs. What is the spirit of our law? It comes from the spirit of our institution. Our institution is called Parliament. The etymology of the word comes from speaking. It would otherwise be said, say, for example Silentioment or Silencement. The word is our weapon to politicians and parliamentarians here, and if we are talking about abuse of the procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman, you as a lawyer should give the bill to you, I address you, but I also address everyone else, give the account that this is due to legal vacuum. If this procedure is used so much not for its purpose, it is because we all, by making the Rules, have not given enough opportunity to speak, to express an opinion of sharp speeches to which you do not have, on the sharp back, for example, you have no right to say anything! But it's a sharp one that affects certain people, parties, policies, categories and so on, and that's why it's required in this order! So the first thing we need to do, Mr. President, is you, as Primus inter pares, were you, how was Latin, you should initiate to change that in the Rules. There must be a procedure for the people's representative to speak. His job here in this room is to speak, not to remain silent. This must be stimulated by both the Rules and the Leaders and by all of us. Because we have no weapon but the word. So when we take our word away, we start fighting, right? Disarray is what they call them! Therefore, the spirit of our rules is gentle, with remarks, but let the speaker finish his thought or sentence. Yes, some of us succeed, others fail, some serve better with the word, others not so well, but this is not a vice. Therefore, in my opinion, the conclusion of today's procedure will be that we must improve our work and return to the spirit of this institution and actually be guided not by the letter but by the spirit. And where the letter is so fragile, let's change it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u153	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any lines? Dr. Ademov's line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonev, due to the circumstances, we have worked with many Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly over the years. At the risk of missing some of them, I will mention several emblematic names that sat in these chairs - Stefan Savov, Ivan Kurtev, Alexander Jerov, Yunal Lütfi, Guinho Ganev, Georgi Pirinski. And my question to you is in the form of a line: do you make any difference between the colleagues I have listed, the way they respected the spirit, the point and the letter of the law, and young colleague Miroslav Ivanov? Do you think there's a difference between different generations? Because when you gain self-esteem and believe in yourself, then it is possible in some way to take yourself seriously and provoke the resentment of other colleagues. That's the big problem we shouldn't be dealing with. Here we are not gathered on a court of comrades to condemn colleague Miroslav Ivanov. The question is in what way should parliamentaryism become a weapon rather than a tool to use against one or another representative of a particular political force. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u155	Thank you to Dr. Ademov. Are there any other lines? Mr. Letifov, come in. Mr. Ademov, why did you miss Yordan Sokolov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Ivanov, I will agree with Mr. Tsonev, although I am doing a replica procedure, but what he actually said, I think is at the heart of this debate. If, after the debate, we can also assume what the vote and the outcome of the vote will be, this is not so significant. More important is the result as efficiency for work and attitude within parliament, because President Minchev spoke about pluralism, political, the spirit of parliamentaryism. Of course, including Mr. Yordan Sokolov also supported this spirit of parliamentaryism, as the chairman rightly pointed out, but this should be defended by everyone. Countering political ideology, disagreement on certain topics is not a reason to destroy parliamentaryism, the institution, its authority, if you will, and the individual authority of the members of parliament. Personal attacks, personal assessments, not deserved in most cases, but it is part of the spirit of parliamentaryism, it is part of political pluralism. To defend the height of the chair of a parliamentary group means to protect part of the Bulgarian society that chose this group. Disrespecting the chairman is disrespecting a large group. The joy of my colleagues from BSP, whom I respect very much, is correct, but they participated in a procedure when the word was taken away here, then of Cornelia Ninova, Chair of the parliamentary group. We were back in this position here and we wanted the President's resignation because it was the silence of the opposition's vote. In the debate, the preceding point, were used by the majority of terms, such as: The opposition is powerless, powerless. "Of course, the majority can crush everything, including the Constitution, parliamentaryism and the highest authority in the country, but it is also the responsibility of the majority to protect this parliamentaryism and this political pluralism is actually on all of us. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And in this sense, if we learn from today's debate, no matter what Mr. Tsonev said, what will be the outcome, it will be successful. Here, I hope, indeed, personal attacks will retreat, but the spirit of parliamentaryism and pluralism must be protected. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u157	And thank you, Mr. Letifov. With all due respect to you, that wasn't a line, was it? Here you go, Mr. Minchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I took the line in the first place to say two words about the legal vacuum in the Rules you mentioned. Indeed, I agree, there are hypotheses that are not explicitly regulated in the Rules, which, by the way, put not only the Members of the National Assembly in a difficult situation, put the President in each sitting, because he must interpret this, but an interpretation between lawyers hardly happens entirely in one direction. However, in this case, I do not agree that there was a legal vacuum, because our Rules are clear that when a member of the Council of Ministers spoke on a particular topic, which is not on the agenda, each of the parliamentary groups had five minutes of respect, and this was said even during the speech, everyone knew it, and the relevant opinion on the opinion of Mr. Asen Vassilev could be expressed not in the context of a procedure, but where he belongs in the five minutes, so for the legal vacuum in principle yes, but for this case this is not the case. And in just a few words I would also like to address Mr. Letifov, although I am making a replica of the line simply because I neglected to mention this in my previous speech, and Mr. Cholakov developed it at the statement of the request. It was clear that it will be about the case of Dimitar Glauchev, only when we talk about the case of 2017, let us remember the whole factual situation. I am sure that colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria will also recall it, but I will read only very brief fragments of the stenogram then, and you can decide whether the case is the same: Mrs. Ninova, I take your word and on the grounds of art. 162, para. One, you're suspended from the hearing. KORNELIA NINOVA [[BSP for Bulgaria]] : What have I broken? I've warned you several times, what have I broken? PRESENTER DIMITER VOICE: On the basis of art. 162, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly may remove the President for more than one meeting, I will remove you for one meeting only. That's the case. You can decide whether it's identical. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u159	Thank you to the chairman. Mr. Tsonev, you have an opportunity for a douche bag.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u160	Actually...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u161	Well, he's not used to speaking from there! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u162	Well, let's hope in this Parliament and not get used to talking from here. I don't take it the lines were lines. I wouldn't take advantage of my right to dodge if we didn't have to figure something out anyway. To Mr. Minchev. I'm talking about a legal vacuum in the abuse of the procedure. The exercise itself is okay, but the abuse is not okay, so we need to think about it. And one more thing. Yes, it was said that we were entitled to an answer, this was also a legal vacuum until the forty-fourth National Assembly. Here we have him removed together. There was no such procedure after a minister to be able to speak, to be treated by parliamentary groups. Let's do this again, think about how we can take him out. Otherwise, to Mr. Ademov. Yes, we have worked with many Presidents of the National Assembly, yes, you have missed Yordan Sokolov, God rest his soul, this very respect and respect. He was a great President of the National Assembly and everyone else, but I wouldn't like to compare. To these young people on the first day of our work and in our speeches, I have always said that we should give them a chance to learn. It's a job that wants experience, learning, it takes time outside the knowledge we have, so I don't think we need to compare them. We just have to have patience to make things happen, but they also have to make an effort to see how it was before, why it was and so on and so forth. Because if you look back, you will see that our parliamentary group was absolutely consistent in defending the right of the opposition and we stood behind Mrs. Ninova then. Yeah, the case was a little different, but it was the same in spirit you can't take away the word of... That's not the spirit of the institution, you shouldn't do that. Yeah, the law gives you the right, but you better not. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u163	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. The next request is from Mr. Kostadinov from the Reconnaissance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u164	Mr. Chairman, I'll be brief. In the beginning I will read several names that I suppose to each of you speak something and therefore I will not explain who they are: Exarch Antim I, Marko Balabanov, Stefan Stambolov, academic Ivan Evstatiev Gesov, Todor Ikonomov, Petko Karavelov, Alexander Malinov, Petko Slaveykov, Zahari Stoyanov. There's more. The common thing among all these people is that during a certain period of time in our history they were presidents of the National Assembly. This chair, which is one of the most important in the country, obliges. He owes the people who stand there also to those who stand next to him and who occupy him at certain times as replacements. Today we are discussing a procedure that is really not pleasant, but let us remember what really happened and why we specifically support this procedure and why we want Miroslav Ivanov's resignation. We all saw how the spirit was violated, not the letter, but the spirit of the Bulgarian law, because something was done that was not entirely right, a member of the Council of Ministers was given the opportunity to speak and justify a position, entering into a direct conversation with representatives of a part of parliament. It was wrong, but he was given this opportunity, then a representative of this part of parliament came out to answer, but he was not given this opportunity. [[shows right]] In other words, if we are to observe the spirit of the law, we always keep it, whether it is our man or another person. And vice versa, if we don't follow it, we don't follow it. We cannot, in one case, in practice, observe the spirit of the law first in the same procedure, and then follow the letter of the law...................in the same way, and everyone knows it without being a lawyer. In one part of the reasons that have been set out, because there are motives inside, it was also mentioned that I have been made for............................................................................................. I wasn't really questioning her. Honestly, I can't even remember what was going on for a very simple reason: no one here remembers the scenes, not even all the words. A huge part of the MPs, not to mention, including even the people in the National Assembly's leadership, will not be remembered even by history. They're gonna go somewhere in someone's archive, on someone's shorthand lists that nobody's gonna read, except maybe someone who's gonna have to do another annoying thesis or some other course development after years, but the example that's being set here remains. Because very often people who look at us don't remember who says what, but that someone said something. In this particular case last week was given a very bad example, which I once commented on in relation to the case, which was around Kostadin Angelov and his Then I did it as a statement within the Conference of Presidents, now I will say it publicly. There is a difference in the attitude, for example, between, on the one hand, demonstrated by the President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minchev, my respect for the way in which he guides and in which he calms his passions, and even sometimes allows himself to close his eyes to some not as great violations of the Rules as we have all done, namely by observing the spirit and not the letter of the law, something that must be admired and which deserves our respect. But there is a difference between his way in which the National Assembly is conducted and the way in which the National Assembly is led by Miroslav Ivanov when he stands there. And that only applies to him. For none of the other deputies, we can say such a thing. And you can see it. There was a case where there was tension again, again because of a line, raise the tone and so on. It's understandable, we can give it to personal emotions, we can give it to lack of experience, although here most people have no experience. I don't have any experience either. There aren't that many people who can say they have a long, albeit modest experience. Most of us have neither long nor modest. So from this point of view, this is understandable and it is normal to make mistakes. Whoever doesn't work is the only one who's not wrong. However, when there is a mistake, forgiveness must be sought. And when someone's wrong, they should ask for that forgiveness. And I guess there won't be anyone here who doesn't accept it. Including only a few hours ago there was such a case in which a slight tension caused a replica of the presiding Rositsa Kirova, and she literally apologized seven minutes later, and it was over. This would have happened with the few of the cases that we are currently commenting on, only there was no such thing there was an insistence of right, there was a search for victory in dispute. Here in the National Assembly, victory will not be achieved. I think we all agree on that. None of us will back down, because it is simply not us who decide here the victory, the Bulgarian voters decide. They're the ones who, when elections come, decide whether we spoke well, badly, or if some people were better off silenced and didn't call. From this point of view, I think that the best solution that there can be right now to avoid this whole procedure is for Miroslav Ivanov to give himself an example, because there have been other such cases in our history, there have been other times when people who were asked to resign have given it themselves. True, it may not make it mathematical logic suggests what the result will be in this case, only it will not be good for Bulgarian parliamentaryism or what is left of it, because each of us here represents the Bulgarian people not their constituents, but the whole Bulgarian people. And if we are talking about the fact that the Union makes the force, as it stands in the front of the building of the National Assembly, as is the Bulgarian state motto, we should try to set an example in this direction, because what should unite us is the only and only the Bulgarian national interest. What should unite us is the good example that we should try to give, despite everything and despite our political divisions. In this case, if we want to set a good example, this is the way. Otherwise, I suspect that, in view of the cases so far, and the practice that has taken place, similar cases with this same Vice-President will continue to take place at the times when he leads. A well-known fact is the one who has made a mistake once, and the second time, if he doesn't draw his own conclusions. In this case, we see that such conclusions have not been drawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u165	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? I can't see. You want a line? No. Dr. Georgiev from BSP, come in. Dr. Mikhailov, I'm sorry. What size shirt are you wearing? [[Reply.]] I'm taking notes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, on behalf of Dr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u167	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u168	I am very difficult to decide to take part in the matter because I am primarily a lecturer other than a doctor, currently temporarily involved in the political life of Bulgaria. But it seems to me that one thought of Exupery is very true for today: "We were all children, but very few of us remember it, says Exupery. And I am very grieved by Mr. Cholakov as a psychologist who deals with people's health and for 40 years he also observed their psychology that he allowed himself here to make a characteristic of the character of Mr. Ivanov. This is unacceptable from the stands. It's unacceptable! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] It's unacceptable! It's not correct, it's not serious, and I hope you'll apologize to him on the sidelines of parliament. I loved Mr. Tsonev's words, which I can congratulate him on. But here, Mr. Tsonev, there is a nuance of whether the spirit or the breath, if you know what I'm talking about, because the spirit of parliamentaryism has very often been violated in this room and I have witnessed this, and my entire parliamentary group over the past five years. But that's part of the parliamentary thing, as you say. The point is not to tilt the balance too much in one direction or another. And since this whole argument is pretty much... Mr. Minchev very accurately defined, if we speak as lawyers, what are the arguments that do not seriously allow for the legal request of Ivanov's resignation. And I think they're pretty well argued and no one made any arguments against them. Even you! Even your colleagues after you. I would just like to address my friend Hassan Ademov: why did you miss Blasvest Sendov? Wasn't he a worthy chair of parliament? [[Heckling]] Right? Every speaker of parliament is worthy, but if we go back to all that Mr. Cholakov said, because he tried to present the motives. Mr. Cholakov, you haven't been here in four years. Now you're here, I congratulate you on that, personally, of course. But we remember not only this case, which the President of the National Assembly here said we know the details of it and they are different from the case quoted by you. We remember many cases in which the President of the National Assembly did not give the floor at all to representatives of the opposition or took it away in the first three, five, ten seconds. We remember him, colleagues, that's all?! [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov: "There is no such thing! "]] We remember it very well and Mr. Bikov remembers it. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Oh, there's no such thing. How can there not be such a thing?! Mr. Nenkov, please. Then you can practice, if you want, we won't be talking to you here in the stands. But I ask you very much not to be, as Mr. Kostadinov said, long and he speaks for seven minutes. I don't know how many minutes I've talked already and if I've skipped it? In order not to be so specific about this very petty question. I am pleasantly surprised by Mr. Ivanov just by him, the way he has come here in such verbal shootings, which are characteristic of parliament, we cannot escape from them, he has struggled to remain calm. May I remind you, Mr. Cholakov, that one of your colleagues brought him in the most disparaging way a pack of medicines? Do you remember that? He remembers him. I won't mention the name of my fellow Member in Parliament, which was terribly disrespectful. So let us let Mr. Miroslav Ivanov do his job, which has an assessment by the President of the National Assembly, and I believe that this assessment is objective, and let us continue our serious work, because here two parliamentarians are talking about the meaning of Parliament. The purpose of Parliament is not in these operations to bring down the President or Vice-President. These are levers in the game between the ruling and opposition. We have much more important things to do. To Mr. Kostadinov, I mean, you mentioned holy names here. But give yourself an assessment as chairman of a parliamentary group that Bulgaria is currently experiencing an extremely difficult and geopolitical and geoeconomic moment. It's a very difficult time! And our parliament is called to fulfill its worthy role. It is not in order to remove or lift someone from the leadership of the National Assembly. None of them... And there was a case here today, and we could have asked for the resignation right away. Look at the work the coworker said very spontaneously. I don't believe there was any bad intent to do that. Let's be a little more open-minded and re-remember what Exupery said. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u169	Thank you. You want a line? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Guys, I'm sorry to bother you. I am doing this for one purpose only to bring out what we need.. the spirit of parliamentaryism to come back, to confirm and so on, and so I will use Professor Mihailov's speech, I would also say another name and the shirts would become two. Professor, when you talk about spirit and breath, we get a little below the level we'd like today. But look, all this time, Professor, there's a trend, and I've noticed it for more than 25 years, if the ones we choose come here, in this crib, the host, whoever he is, of all the parties, I've been looking at him for 25 years, he's starting to do some kind of curtsy to them. It's the other way around, guys. The reason for the resignation was still the same. This is where the Deputy Prime Minister gets up, talks some stuff, picks up, his tone is completely disrespectful, by the way, and not the first time. Instead of you making a remark to him, the only President I have ever seen make a note to a minister is the current President. I can tell her exactly when it was, she told the Prime Minister to sit down. We had an argument with him, remember, Mr. Minchev? He said, Mr. Prime Minister, you will have the opportunity to sit down. Those who choose them here have no advantage over us, colleagues. They come here to answer. The MP has the advantage. That's what I wanted, Mr. Mihailov, to tell you that this is essential and it always raises disputes, and it always causes scandals. They come here, they will have a respectable tone, and for that you will observe. They will have no advantage over any MP, because that is parliamentaryism. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u171	Mr. Cholakov for the second line and Mr. Popov for the third.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u172	Professor Mihailov, you mentioned my name three times in your speech. I notice a fixation in you "Every time I get up to talk and make a statement, you make a line. And since you are a serious and responsible person, I accept that this is a sign of respect for me and thank you for that. Every time you give me a line, I feel flattered. Thank you again. Mr. Tsonev very correctly paid attention to what happened. The chairman of our parliamentary group, which is the largest opposition group, was offended. She was insulted, and you all saw it. And we want an apology. The apology can occur in two ways: either as a vote the release of Mr. Miroslav Ivanov, or when Mr. Ivanov comes here and apologizes. I'm giving you a chance. What you said about my speech. Mr. Mihailov, I haven't made personal assessments of Mr. Ivanov. I have made a political qualification for Vice-President behaviour, which has been confirmed repeatedly in the speeches of my colleagues who have spoken after me. No one in this chair has the right to treat us like a boss. We can't, and we all know that. This post implies humility, not hitting the table, handing out sentences, imposing sanctions and so on. Mr. Ivanov did not show respect to members of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS and we are paying attention to this systematic behavior in our view. So if you think I have something to apologize to Mr. Ivanov for what I said, I will do it as soon as he apologizes to Mrs. Atanasova. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u173	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Mihailov, you are right, both you and Mr. Tsonev, speaking of spirit and parliamentaryism, of speech. But parliamentaryism, honourable colleagues, that's the order first of all. This spirit, the word, should rest on rules, written rules of the Law, of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. Not customs when they are not implemented in these rules, in the Law. And the spirit of parliamentaryism should be controlled not only by the President of the National Assembly and its alternates, but by each of us, the MPs who do not abuse both the letter and the spirit of the Rules. Because the spirit of parliamentaryism is enshrined precisely in this law, in the Rules and in the Constitution, and when the MP abuses the letter of the Law, he abuses the spirit of parliamentaryism. Then the President, in the case of Mr. Ivanov, picking both the letter and the spirit of parliamentaryism and of the Rules, exercises his authority. In fact, reading the reasons for the request for early release, it is reasonable to conclude that Mr. Ivanov has consistently respected, I repeat, consistently respected the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, for which he is asked to resign. Here are cited three dates, according to three violations. "April 15th, March 1st and May 13th. Like, notice, for May 13th, there are no violations. It is described in the reasoning..... practice............................................................................... Enduring practice was disrupted. I witnessed this lasting practice of GERB's governance when they presided over Parliament, and my God, I do not want this lasting practice to return here to this National Assembly. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] Therefore, at the end of the line, although in this procedure, I address both Mr. Ivanov and the other Presidents, the President of Parliament, if you want to do what you are called for, precisely to defend the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, and the letter of parliamentaryism, to our Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, continue, as you have so far, to adhere systematically to the Rules of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u175	Dr. Mihaylov, you have the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable replicators! I didn't say that comparison for a reason, Mr. Tsonev. You just took the liberty of talking about a crib. These are the most worthy seats here in Parliament. These are the people we've chosen operationally to run the country. They were our colleagues until a moment ago. What do we call them in a crib?! You know what I mean? Besides, I checked the transcript. The Vice-President of the National Assembly has not said a single insulting word to the President of the largest opposition parliamentary group. But let me remind you, with all due respect to Mrs. Atanasova, what insulting words she spoke to colleagues from the parliamentary hall here. I'm not the Prime Minister's lawyer, but tell someone he can't speak Bulgarian?! Don't come back for my memories back here a long time ago. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, this is so unworthy, you said something about the level in parliament that you shouldn't afford it. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] He can't afford it! You are allowing it systematically to the largest ruling part of the parliamentary coalition and to your colleagues from BSP, and you want your colleague Cholakov to share with the entire Chamber that you are personally offended. How are they supposed to feel? It's part of the parliamentary life. Nothing serious has happened, and I don't see what can come out of this debate, and it can go on for two more hours. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u177	Thank you, Doctor. The next recorded statement is Iskren Mitev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Mihailov said nothing serious happened. I don't agree with that. Today we are discussing Mr. Miroslav Ivanov's resignation request, but we are actually discussing something else. [[Noise and lines.]] We are discussing that there are some people in the National Assembly who think they are equal among the equal and say that we are jamming the opposition. Are we jamming the opposition? Let's see the data. A million words are spoken from this tribune only until March. Four times the number of procedures has been uploaded in one day. From this tribune, you have said, in general, twice, war and peace, and if this is a silence of the opposition?! Are we listening? More than 15 opposition bills have been passed. This is something that would never have happened during the time of GERB. Has Miroslav Ivanov exceeded his authority? Let us recall the events of May 13th. The head of the largest parliamentary opposition group raises his card with a clear awareness that he will violate the Rules of Procedure. He gets out and breaks the rules. During this time Mr. Ivanov, whose job is to keep the Rules of Procedure, to look for order in the Chamber and to have justice, to endure, to make a few remarks and ultimately to make the unthinkable decision to take the floor of Mrs. Atanasova. But dear opposition and dear Mrs. Atanasova, as we have seen, we did not take away your word, not Mr. Ivanov, but the Bulgarian citizens took away your word when they decided not to rule. [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] And we from the ruling coalition of.. We continue the Change... Democratic Bulgaria.................... there is such a people.... and BSP are here to have rules, to have equality and to have justice and no one to be equal to equal. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u179	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mitev, no one has taken away our word. If we are in this Parliament, we have the floor. And not only if we are outside the parliament, everyone in Bulgaria has a right to a word, not only the government. Because that's what I think you're saying, without making much sense in your words, it's an instinct. This isn't even directed at you at all. I take it as an occasion. It's an instinct that's very dangerous, a symptom that's very dangerous if we're chosen to bring justice, freedom, peace, love and all other things, no one has the right to speak and no one has the right to protest. Otherwise we'll put an iron door on it, even a grate on the windows, because we've come here to give it all the best. You may have good intentions. With good intentions they came both Lenin and Paul Pott most likely. I'm not saying you're neither Lenin nor Paul Pot. Don't let yourself tell anyone here that someone took his word away. Bulgarian citizens have sent us all here to defend their interests, and everyone does so according to their powers. The fact that procedures have been taken, that the opposition has spoken twice as much as those in charge, suggests that the opposition is more active than the government. That's the conclusion of your data, and I don't know what's wrong with that? It is the work of the opposition to be active. If you wish to have spoken twice as much, advise your colleagues from your parliamentary group, because you are an active MP, to start and they will take the floor and it will turn out that you have also spoken more than us, in which there will still be nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u181	Thank you. Mrs. Petrova, do you want a line? A statement. You'll have to wait. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Mr. Gazhev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My dear Mr. Mitev, as we are dear to you, so are you dear to us and to taxpayers too! I was very impressed with the statistics, numbers and data, as always, you deal with the facts you speak with. I have bothered to open the website of the National Assembly. Since the beginning of this legislation, there have been 37 laws passed. That is, according to your data, the opposition has accepted more than half of the work of this National Assembly in six months. Thanks for the evaluation. This means that the government actually does nothing because you have how much left? A little over half of them. But here it is also about what we are talking about about resigning and observing the Rules of Procedure. We're talking about procedures, how many procedures, how long it's been said. Procedures shall be taken when the Rules of Procedure are not complied with. We have had disputes with Mr. Minchev or Mr. Ivanov, with whoever is leading the meeting at some point. Let them say how many of these procedures were not in order and how wrong they were or were challenged by them. This is also evident in how many of them they have taken after them, as is the rule of law. They can take after any two-minute procedure. And speaking of the particular case, of the possibility of responding to the speech of a member of the Council of Ministers, yes, it has already been set up in the Rules, yes, this has been one of the changes in the last year, which has been made in the Rules, and they are in two minutes, not five minutes. Five minutes is another procedure. Two minutes is the attitude of the MP, 63 I think it was the Ruler. This is also about respect for that reason. And there is one more thing I would like to draw attention to, and that is the right to a personal explanation when a Member of the Parliament has been affected by a speech. I mean, I have a more rude language to you or to anyone else in this room, and a person has a right to defend himself. Isn't that right, Mr. Ananiev? Yeah. A practice which was introduced by a President of the National Assembly was not to give a personal explanation until the President acquainted himself with the stenogram. Today it has shown that about five minutes takes the introduction to the express transcription of whether there is a more offensive tone or not. The meeting host in question apologized as soon as he met. The practice that was imposed, and I think of two specific cases, when you wait a few days to give a personal explanation, and it is confirmed that there is an insult. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And that is also a problem, and it is a problem of conduct, and it is a problem of parliamentaryism. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u183	Mr. Mitev, you have the right to the back, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members replicating! Mr. Gazhev, the important thing in this debate was it actually right for Mr. Miroslav Ivanov to take away the word of a person who abused, and the answer is yes. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] On the other hand, would you like to have a special attitude towards members of your party? You do. Is that right? It's not right. And that's the important thing, Mr. Gadget. These are 15 proposals, you are right, it is. During GERB no one had the right to speak and to take the floor of neither journalists nor protests, and the iron doors put them a long time ago you with your actions. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u185	The next one is Mrs. Miroslava Petrova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As we have seen and as we know, here the word of the opposition flows along with propaganda, along with attempts at artistic performances, performances, tasteless parallels, false data and facts, manipulations, and often as the most prosaic ambulant trade. "Commercials, sir!" "As my colleague Hristo Petrov recently said in the Committee on Culture, "are dealing with everything: with history, with culture, with music, with national interests." [[(Shouts from GERB-SDS:]] With the values with the most intimate values that Bulgarian society carries in its heart, trade with them and watch to hit it there. But it'll pass! The account that we heard and played the role of motives, unfortunately, totally untenable, was even an attempt at tasteless intrigue, which, frankly, surprised me a little bit further in, forgive me, unimpressive stylist and fake pathos, extremely out of fashion. Don't impress me, don't convince me! Unlike more than Mr. Minchev's correct statement, the President of the National Assembly argued, honest, correct, strongly motivated, which in an honest world should convince you too. In an honest world! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] In other words, here the opposition does not suffer that it has no say. Humanly, he suffers that he has no power. And thank God! And thank God whose name you will mention, and you know you shouldn't, and you know why. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u187	Thank you to Mrs. Petrova. Are there any lines? Before I give the floor to the next person on record, I would like to warn you that the list is so swollen that by 2:00 p.m., we're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u188	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u189	You want the procedure now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, it is not in the manner of conduct. In relation to what you said about the long list of speakers and the remaining half-hour, I am making a procedural proposal to extend the meeting until we have finished looking at the whole point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u191	Thank you. Is there a reverse offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u192	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u193	I put to the vote the proposal made by the Chairman of the meeting Minchev to extend the working time until the present point is exhausted. Please vote procedure. Vote 163 MPs: 161, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We'll continue the discussion. The next entry is Mr. Hristo Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We from the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria" will not support this proposal, but I would like to explain why. In this discussion, we are discussing two subjects. One item is the parliamentary standards that we work on. The other subject is Miroslav Ivanov. I'm going to say a few words on both subjects. First, by standard. It's about the spirit and the text of the law. This institution is a special institution. She's got a lot of paradoxes in her. Some of them I'll list here. At the same time we are parties, i.e. we are separate and we have to separate and fight with each other, and this dynamic will always affect the Beast, in which this otherwise dignified hall will be transformed from time to time. Here lives the Constitution, here it is drawn up, here it applies, here the constitutional conventions apply. However, not only are legislative texts the way the Constitution lives, but parliamentary practice and even parliamentary architecture have their constitutional significance. In that sense, allow me a remark. I would suggest, Mr. Chairman, at the next Chairmanial Council, that we carefully discuss these iron doors that have been placed. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Because this is also part of the overall tradition and the balance of relations in our constitutional model Here, in this Chamber, we must also adopt the laws from the point of view of this activity, which requires a very strict application of the procedure. Because we lawyers should, as we say, very complex factual compositions of a series of actions be implemented, but this is also the place of the national political debate. There must therefore be a very different possibility of political debate and of fighting opinions here. Parliament exists on the basis of a majority and, nevertheless, I think, Parliament is very much there because of the opposition. Parliament exists because of the opposition, because, in fact, if only a majority had to make any decisions, it would have been much more convenient to close it somewhere else and had it not been like our majority, perhaps even quickly would have done the legislative work of the state. However, all the logic of the existence of parliament, all the complexity of the procedures, all the possibilities for their delay, obstruction in one order or another actually serves the possibility that those who do not have a majority, nevertheless be heard, including sometimes having to stop. Other parliamentary traditions know the filibuster institute, for example. It is based on a rule that an MP cannot be taken away at all, there are no time limits. This is not our tradition and I do not think that we should go towards it, but the logic of the existence of this institute is important to appreciate what we are discussing here. I accept that colleagues from GERB rightly put the subject before us. In the end, the subject of what conditions can be taken away from the floor, especially the chair of a parliamentary group, is an important topic and it is worth discussing very carefully. It is worth really maintaining and now giving support to this tradition, indeed as far as group presidents are concerned, especially as far as the opposition is concerned, I do not plead for myself here, so it is clear that they should not be taken away from the floor, because this does not stand well in terms of the strength of the national debate. And something else that might be worth discussing is the procedure that happened, in the sense, there was an argument in it. This is a comparative innovation in our parliamentary practice, and perhaps this is the way to look at how it is applied. Perhaps a greater dialogue is necessary because we see a series of situations in which the procedural framework that is given does not actually serve the life of the debate that is taking place in the Chamber and the ministers want to take the floor, and the parliamentary groups want to respond. In fact, this shows the need to move perhaps another step towards these remarkable sports competitions that we have seen in the British Parliament, which are much more dialogical and much more immediate. Perhaps we really need to think about this, because in fact the whole problem arose not from the character of Miroslav Ivanov, but from the nature of this procedure and following it too strictly, it came into conflict with the political logic of what was happening in the Chamber, the need for certain, important political arguments from the government and from the opposition to meet, and this meeting could not have happened elsewhere through the media, its place is here in the first place. From this point of view, there is really room to look around a little bit more, additionally specifically this parliamentary format, come on, so I'll call it. In this sense, my respect for sharpening my attention to the fact that Parliament exists because of the opposition and the chairmen of parliamentary groups really must be given a much more substantial opportunity to participate in the debate. GERB is a good opposition. Here I will move on to the second point where I would like to say good things. I'll start with Mrs. Atanasova. It is dynamic, there is energy that can often envious a person, it is active, it leads its group very well and from this point of view we have no interest, Bulgaria has no interest in this thing running into unnecessary procedural obstacles. We just have to have the arguments to answer, and I'm sure we can do that. But let me also say good words about the second subject. I apologize, Miro, for saying so. Mr. Cholakov said two things today that impressed me. In the previous point, he said that people didn't matter when it comes to who heads regulators the law is enough, we don't even need to know their names. Today, he focused and spoke the word..................... with regard to the Vice-President of the National Assembly. I agree with the second point of view. People have great importance, especially when it comes to people who take such positions. From this point of view, we from "Democratic Bulgaria" and I will be happy to vote on Miro Ivanov's trust in continuing his work. Because I like his character. He's thorough, he insists on following the rules, and that gives him the headaches we see. I see in him a great desire to do his job and to do it well. I also see something else in my work with him, which I very much like the ability to make him uncomfortable when out of the majority we do stupid things. Every majority does stupid things and we do stupid things, but its ability to be uncomfortable with it is something that particularly attracts me to it. I believe that he has the character to be Vice-President of the National Assembly and to be part of the best efforts we all make here. That is why I think, and I speak on behalf of our parliamentary group, we will gladly vote on it, not only will we show coalition loyalty not to support the opposition, namely to vote on it to continue doing this work. And there's something else I'd like to say. There's a lot of talk here about the young, about the old. Yes, one of the great values of democracy is that it contains an opportunity to transmit the baton between different generations without a particular conflict. This is a problem of Bulgarian democracy, of the Bulgarian political system at the moment. We somehow fail to surrender the baton. The same people stand to an end on the field, hold the entire political process as hostages to their own fate, do not think that perhaps they should release the political process from themselves so that it can move forward. Here at the moment, what is happening in this Parliament is that there are many new people. Some of them have the potential to really be a new generation in Bulgarian politics, I do not belong to them. But this has to happen and in this sense we all think that we have an interest in being a little more understanding and eager to invest in them, including our own patience, and not so dedicated to defending a closed page in Bulgarian history because it is closed and there is no way we can go back to it. It's time to move on, guys! And it is time to accept that, yes, there will be new generations, they will learn, they will, so to speak, go through challenges and lessons that we have, in one way or another, passed in our own way, and it is good for Bulgarian democracy, and it is healthy. So, Mr. Ivanov, keep doing your job! Thank you for your efforts and we will support you! We'll vote your trust. Thank you. [[Applause from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", and "DB."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u195	Are there lines? Mr. Bikov, come in. The group's time is up anyway, so you can give us the douche bag.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Ivanov, we are not against the people, we are against the approach. And in this case, we have asked for this resignation because of the approach that has been applied several times, not only in the last case, and it is good that there is this debate, because this approach does not only happen in this House. This approach, for example, the result of it is also this grid that you are talking about. We found out yesterday there was a grille. That we have understood it is not a big problem, because what is called, perhaps you do not have an obligation for us to inform us of such things, but you yourself were surprised yesterday and now you want the Conference of Presidents to cancel this decision. I don't think there should be a chairmanship council. It's just this door, which, by the way, pierced this cultural monument because in the most vandalistic and insane way, this grille is mounted outside, and by the way, it's a result of paranoia. It doesn't have any reason, it doesn't make any sense from this grid to tell you. Because you created a conspiracy thinking in which GERB... I imagine the thoughts of Boyko Rashkov and another group of conspirators that we will come, attack. Here older colleagues, including me, are included in this group, remembering how to enter this Parliament. 1997 came through the back door, not through the parade, so if you're gonna put bars on the back, put them on the back, put them on the windows, and then we'll all be behind bars, like you all promised repeatedly in the last months. Therefore, I call on you and Mr. Ivanov, because you spoke wisely in your speech, take the initiative without the Presidency Council. I don't see who's going to come out to the Conference of Presidents and say: this grate is very well sitting in this parliament, let's leave it. Just take it off. We turn to President Minchev: remove, as Reagan said to Gorbachev: Mr. Gorbachev, push this wall, just push this grate. No one will attack you. There will be protests, don't worry, it's normal. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You came so to power, so with the protests, I guess you're used to it, maybe even a part of you to participate. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u197	Is there another line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Ivanov, my cue is not so much to get into an argument with you as to strengthen what you said, and one such association arose in me perhaps from last night's football meeting. Imagine that Mr. Miroslav Ivanov is the judge of a football match. I am sure that, as he has well studied the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, he will also study football rules as well. Imagine he's a judge, say, in the Champions League finals. How's he gonna play this game? Very easy. Why? Because football players are disciplined, they know what they're asked for, they follow the rules, they follow the rules. They themselves want to play football, so his task will be very easy. But imagine now that Mr. Ivanov plays the soccer meeting, I happen to remember,........................................................................................ What's going on over there? It's hard to play there. I've played such a game. It's hard to play there! Why? Because soccer players aren't at the level of the Champions League. That's where the judge has to be very active. And by actively participating, he's always under the punches, wondering who to harness the audience, you know, the teams, and there's always some problem. So in such cases the judge must make cardinal decisions according to the situation. That's what Mr. Ivanov did. I'm sure he's right. I am convinced because I have observed the cases in which he has replaced the Chair of the Assembly, how he leads the Assembly, and admired the discipline that he brings to life. I am a Radetel for discipline, perhaps that's why I will vote in the same way as you vote for Mr. Ivanov. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u199	Thank you. From what you've said, we're not from the Champions League. You got a right to the back, don't you? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u200	Mr. Bikov, that's exactly how I understand that you're raising the question of approach. And that's why the first part of my exhibition was connected at all to the institutes through which we work here. The right to speak by MPs, especially the chairmen of a parliamentary group, and this blitzcontrol procedure. I think that not a small part of the tension you have suffered in this situation was because of the fact that this procedure is not sufficiently suited to the political needs that we have. There is no possibility of a sufficiently rapid dialogue between the ministers and the opposition, and there is such a need in a democracy, and I think there is little here to really look at this procedure. I am glad that you stressed that the approach is not in man, because then today we could have done a work as a National Assembly member and gone a little further in our understanding of how it is good to conduct the debate and run the procedures here. As far as the grate is concerned. I care about what I said. I'd like to discuss it at the Chairman's Council. There may be some considerations, there may be some arguments, to clarify them. Otherwise, I have personally accepted that by dealing with politics, if citizens want to beat us up, they will beat us up and the bars can only make things worse. The only way is not to give reasons for this, and from this point of view I don't see much sense in such facilities either, I've never seen. Therefore, I would like to discuss carefully the considerations that have taken place, because I think that this type of thing should be discussed by the Chairman's Council. I say again, and the architecture of this building is part of the constitutional dynamics in the country, and that is why it should be dealt with with with a lot of attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u201	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Nenkov, you want the floor of speech, don't you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! A little while ago, there was actually a speech, more like a line, with an analogy for football. Yes, the judge should generally respect the Rules, but the really good judges are the ones who manage to sense when and in what situations they can play and a little freer game so that the game does not tear itself apart and see the real beauty of this game. Now we return to the specific topic and Parliament and how this is related to holding meetings. Is this position easy in the back? No, it's not easy. Can anyone do that? I guess not. I don't want to get into Mr. Ivanov's personal qualities. Naturally, he has his own, I am not his judge, but is it a fact that when Mr. Ivanov has several times, I do not want to go into the exact specifics of the Rules, because here we are not talking about the exact letter of the Rules at all, we are talking really about some spirit, and the fact is that Mr. Ivanov here, I look into your eyes and I say that it happens several times that I get the impression that you are just letting things out of control. We are some people who are unnecessary in this room, and that offends us. Is it an insult to interrupt the chair of a parliamentary group, but is it opposition? Is it a personal insult? No, it is not a personal insult, only that our voters.. these 20% and as much as they voted for us, 600 thousand people and more want to hear the chairman of this parliamentary group. They don't like you, you know, they like this band, they want to hear what we're gonna say to them. Have you followed the rules, Mr. Ivanov? You kept it. Did Mr. Glauchev once have the right to evict Mrs. Ninova for example and make a remark to her? He did. [[Reply from.. We continue the Change.]] No, it's by the book. It's by the book! What happened, what's the analogy? Mr. Glauchev resigned. Did he enjoy it? No, he didn't enjoy it. But here comes the question of responsibility. The bad news is that from the speeches and from your colleagues, Mr. Ivanov, I get the impression that you still live with the sense of carelessness, you put a feeling that when you are the Change, you can do everything as you want and in any way you want, but no, it is not true and I have told you several times from this tribune. You'll understand. It may not be today, but you'll find out. Because when you're in this position, when you're here with the right people's application, for the right people, the prepared people and so on, not to list all the epithets, you don't get to make mistakes, or at least when you make a mistake, you have to have some feeling, some reverse speed. You guys don't have that reverse gear. And since I don't want to be the author of that sentence, Mr. Bikov said it first, naturally, because you just don't have a back speed. You just feel sinless, unpunished and that as your Change, it kind of gives you, like, an open door and you can walk through it. But the truth is that whatever your attitude towards the opposition is, that is how you treat all the groups of people who are dissatisfied for one reason or another in society. You showed some of them the door, you're trying to impress the others that GERB has organized protests... Guys, don't break up with reality. The reality is different. And if you don't come down to the ground and realize the weight that's hanging over your shoulders, then this agony will continue and it won't end well for you. Our job is easy. We'll use all the possibilities of the Rules, we'll talk twice, three times, if we can, we'll talk more, that's our job. Our constituents want to hear us, and we will. That's why we're here. Mr. Ivanov, really, if you have any desire to hear, I am well-intentioned. Just think that sometimes you should still have more tolerance. You shouldn't look like people who somehow have an opposition in this room. No, it's not too much. Mr. Hristo Ivanov was right that it was democracy that gave birth to parliament in order to have opposition. If there was no opposition, I wonder what would have happened in this situation. So, Mr. Ivanov, it was a nice speech by Mr. Minchev, it was nice to have the colleagues who protected you, in their place I will still protect you for sure, but this debate is for you to think about. If you want to do it, don't do it if you want to. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u203	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Nenkov! It's not bad for your constituents to want to hear from Mrs. Atanasova, but maybe they don't want to hear anymore. I agree, but maybe there are people who want to hear it, you don't know. It's okay for her to speak, but to conform to time. Being president of a parliamentary group gives her no reason to exceed it. What you said about Mr. Glauchev's resignation, everyone is aware that he submitted it not because he wanted to, but because he was told by the Bank of Bulgaria Mr. Borisov, and he submitted it, so I think that the comparison here is not at all good to go in this direction, because you make the decisions in one way, we take them in a completely different way. About the infallibility you mentioned, there are no wrongs. But what, by the way, Mr. Cholakov mentioned in his statement about the character of Mr. Ivanov, whom he does not know In fact, did you know that Mr. Ivanov, for example, does not use a vehicle or NSO, even though he is entitled to be vice president of the National Assembly? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Yes, because privileges do not involve other people love and are attracted to privileges. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] So when you talk about someone... Clearly, the whole act is a political smokescreen. At least you showed the opposition that you work together GERB, DPS and rebirth. It is important to see, but your arguments are lame and not relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u205	Thank you. Mr. Gutsanov, come in. [[Heckling]] Mr. Dilov, I'll make an exception. I'll give you the floor. We're standing right next to each other. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Nenkov, you are absolutely right, it is good to have an opposition, it is useful and there should be an opposition But I can't understand what kind of heat you've been attacking a young man for several hours, a man who undoubtedly has his qualities, and does not honor you with all the parliamentary power to hold this discussion. I would make a quote that I think would fit into the landscape that we have in this House today, as many of our colleagues have so far quoted. Goethe says that youth is a flaw that quickly passes through. So let us be wiser, more tolerant and go really into the serious work that the National Assembly has to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u207	Thank you. Mr. Dilov, do you really want a line from your partner? Here you go. [[Heckling]] Okay, okay, I'll be correct next time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Nenkov, my first reproach on you is on football metaphors. She basically, every metaphor in politics hides a risk once you explain it, then you have to explain with another metaphor the first metaphor, and it becomes one thing... But especially with football metaphors, these executives are not very good at it. You remember, that's how this office started, and there was talk about some A teams. We saw them and the sociology teams showed them today, yesterday, the other day. But something very important is in your speech, which is exactly what I want to replicate, because somehow we are going around the subject of personality, we do not want to offend anyone logically, we are well-educated, but ultimately the dispute is about the person here, it is not about the institution. And it was quoted as saying that Exupery... A lot of quotes have been made, and I'm quoting my elementary school teacher. She used to say, "What's always happening to you, Loving?" [[Laughter]] It's a very important quote. This is what I would like to say to my otherwise awfully sympathetic Mr. Vice-President Ivanov: What is always happening to you? Obviously something is not very good in the way of exercising this function here. Apparently that's what our motive is for. There's no very complicated political motive. I want to warn you about a very big risk: you will win today. Today it will be another celebration of the collective right of individual ignorance. This is one of the characteristics of democracy, but this thing will turn against you great, you will see. Remember how many things I warned you about within these eight months "all of them have happened. I'm not going to point out myself because after my splendor, my second most important quality is modesty. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u209	That's been shown once again. Mr. Nenkov, you have the right to the back. I don't know how you got the line on the last one.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Gutsanov and Ananiev, you have spoiled the nice dialogue with Mr. Ivanov a little bit! I think he understood me. [[Heckling]] No, because I think that Mr. Dilov actually wanted to stress that you can still take your own account, you may not do it. Now that BSP is talking to me about some tolerance, it's just not serious. How did you suddenly become so callous? You seem to have forgotten you were an opposition. To tell you the truth, and I'm done with the BSP, since the last few days my feeling is that only BSP is satisfied with this management, I personally am very worried about the truth, I swear. People will appreciate it. But look, colleagues, now a little more serious. GERB one year and more tolerates your insults. One year he tolerates all kinds of epithets. Your Mrs. Nino was talking about us being murderers, wasn't he, Mr. Svilensky? [[Heckling]] We've also memorized these things. Mafias and whatnot. I just want to tell you that this time is over, and it's not gonna happen like that anymore. The point of today's debate is precisely that you are not in the position to judge us. You are neither sinless nor irreplaceable, and quickly get out of this feeling, colleagues. That's it. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u211	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Colleagues, I would like to warn you that the work has become serious. [[Noise and lines.]] The next person to be recorded is Mr. Gurov. Here you go, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be brief. My fellow Members, in several different speeches from this tribune in time, I have spoken about the solutions, the challenges we have addressed and the challenges we have faced, so that we can be in this House, to take on our responsibility and, as they say, to contribute to the country's development. And perhaps contrary to my expectations, perhaps naive, these challenges do not diminish, but increase every day. And that's why I want to talk about the opposite today, I want to say about the benefits that I have seen from this brief and modest experience of politics. The personal benefits, indeed, are not much, but if any, one of them certainly is that this time met me with some great, young, intelligent and selfless people who, with their actions and behavior, change the idea of politics in Bulgaria every day. And whether politics in Bulgaria needs change, I think there is no doubt. The very word "politics" is actually offensive. A politician doesn't sound proud, unfortunately. This is not what I say, this is what the Bulgarian citizens with whom we meet and who we talk to in social networks can see, in the streets and in the protests. And in this widespread lack of confidence in politics, there are two young people who climb on this very high platform every day here and in front of the spotlights, the cameras, the thousands of viewers and voters face what? They face gall, constant attacks and targeted provocations, which, by their actions, have destroyed the authority of this institution for years. And when we go to the regions and talk to the citizens, they tell us a lot of things. There are also thousands of criticisms of us on many topics, but the talks always end in the same way. They tell us: do not give up, do not despair. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] These young intelligent people, like Mr. Ivanov, like Mr. Minchev, they are our last hope that Bulgarian politics can acquire a new and positive image. Therefore, we will support Mr. Ivanov today not because he is part of the Change Continued or by some falsely understood empathy, but because with his principles of impartiality and justice, the way he conducts the meetings and in which he works here as a colleague is exactly the image that we, and the Bulgarian citizens, who have chosen to be here, want to see from the Bulgarian politicians and that is why we will support him. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u213	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. - What's the line? I can't see, and that's joyous. The next entry is Mr. Kostadin Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u214	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start with some advice for you. You talk very often from this stands about the material right part of things, and that makes me think that you're confusing the room we're in with the courtroom, and that's normal because that's what lawyers do. My advice to you is not to confuse this room with the courtroom as I do not allow myself to confuse this room with the operating room. If I allow myself to make such a mistake, believe me, things will look different in this room. I would not like to go into details related to Mr. Ivanov's behaviour on April 15, these things are visible in the transcript of the National Assembly. Then the Conference of Presidents acted wisely and canceled my unjust remark. Yes, then justice is done, only that I will complete this statement I did not intend to do so, but from a purely human point of view I will allow myself to give you a human advice, Mr. Ivanov. I've worked at four national meetings, I see a lot of parliamentary tactics and skirmishes. My years, my education, my education, my profession have taught me tolerance to my opponents. Many times I have been subjected to a physical and psychological threat from patients, but it has in no way prevented me from fighting for their lives and defeating death. I wish you to do this to respect your opponents! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u215	Thank you. Are there any lines? I can't see. The next statement is Mr. Sabrutev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My speech is in support of the Deputy President of the National Assembly Mr. Miroslav Ivanov. I will not just offer my support to him, but I would also like to express my gratitude. Gratitude because it returns parliamentaryism and constructive debate to the National Assembly because it strictly respects the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly because it requires compliance with the Rules in question by all Members of the National Assembly, regardless of their party affiliation. I do not accept the arguments of GERB with which they want Mr. Ivanov's resignation. The problem is not Mr. Ivanov and in his manner of holding the meetings, he is impeccable. The problem is in GERB, the problem is that for many years GERB had taken over the high tribune in the state. The problem is that with procedural grasps, they blam the work of parliament, turning it into a circus. And the problem of GERB now is that this time is over. Parliamentism has returned and you will have to accept it. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u217	Are there any lines to Mr. Sabrutev? Is that right, Mr. Mitev, you have a line? Here you go. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Sabrutev, I disagree with you. You forgot to tell us what we wouldn't have tolerance against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u219	Do you want a hole? [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u220	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Nenkov, in his previous statement, said, quote: "You must have more tolerance to us. " Mr. Mitev, I think we have made it clear to everyone that we will have zero tolerance for corruption. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u221	Mr. Tomislav Donchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Do you have a playwright in your parliamentary group who writes the lines? [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Chairman, if you were to lead today's conversation to a grotesque, I would suggest that you mount a metal grate around the stands with a door equipped with an electromagnetic lock, open from your place and be able to speak only the right people.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u223	I'll sit down then.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u224	But there was a call today to try to keep a slightly higher level of conversation. Mr. Dilov put in the metaphor theme, and I'm not gonna say it. Dear colleagues, in the global parliamentary practice, there have been all kinds of scenes in parliament since the exchange of sharp lines from a place in the British Parliament, there are several parliaments with a nice fight, unfortunately, there is a case of shot parliamentarians, probably the most curious case is for a parliamentarians who chews the wire on the microphone so that his opponent can't speak. We're not discussing the magnitude of tension in this room right now, we're discussing something else. And yes, Mr. Minchev, Mr. Chairman, I listened carefully. Your arguments may be formal, but we're not in court today, at least I'm not a plaintiff or you're a defendant. God forbid anyone thinks they're a prosecutor. And, Mr. Ivanov, I disagree with Mr. Dilov. The debate is not about your person in any way, except for the argument that we don't know you. We know your political behavior, as a person we do not know you and we owe you respect. That's not what this is about. It's about why we're in this room. Because if anyone has a pathology in their head that the point of a parliamentary group's presence is to crush the other one, it's wrong. The person standing up there has the difficult task of being here to make sense. And here I'm going to put in a cliché, which is true. If you gag one person, you gag a few thousand people who voted for him. The more difficult task is how to find meaning, how to find a balance between the different demands, views, positions, goals of the people in this room. Yes, because behind them are Bulgarian citizens, and hardly the way for the development of Bulgarian society is a third of it to humiliate a quarter of it. That's not gonna make anything. Nothing! And if we bring it up through this procedure, it's because of a dangerous trend. The fact that Mr. Ivanov has taken away the opposition's word is bad. That's not the worst of it, though. Tomorrow, by virtue of some collective insanity, it may prove to be someone in an innocent case whose childhood dream was to be a concealer or editor-in-chief in a small newspaper. That's not the scariest part. Tomorrow someone may be a man who dreamed of being the supreme censor of an emperor, or God forbid, a chakra of the Inquisition, because that can happen too. And it doesn't matter what the formal result of today's procedure is, it doesn't matter, because its main goal is to have a pedagogical and therapeutic effect. I'll explain. Pedagogically, because we will understand a large part of colleagues, I will not comment on new or old, age is neither vice nor advantage, what we do and what is the deep meaning that is not generally written in the Rules. It's therapeutic for another reason. Here we have some respected doctors, let me know what this condition is called, when one wants to hear only one's own voice and no one else's. It's probably some deep personal pathology. And because, Professor Angelov, this is not a doctor's office, personal pathologies we will not treat, we must treat political pathologies, and that is the point of today's procedure. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u225	Do you have a line? Here you are, Mr. Gochev, because I've signed you up for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Donchev, I would like to draw a phrase from your speech.. Our arguments are legally correct. Thank you for this confession, we accept it. We also think that our arguments are legally correct and we also believe that this request is just another abuse of a procedure by the opposition, in the same way that we have come to this because of the opposition's abuse of parliamentary procedure. And it is clear that this is about abuse. You have also acknowledged it in your speech by completing that it does not matter what the outcome of this procedure is, because you are pursuing other objectives rather than achieving the procedural objective. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u227	Mr. Mitev, the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Donchev, I also want to take a small part of your speech, and it is related to the metal doors. And weren't you, Mr. Donchev, the GERB people who built a barrier between you and society, the people who didn't hear the voice of either the reporters or anyone who opposed [[noise and lines]] , and isn't your party famous for that one person is the one who says what will be done in the whole country? And also not only did you raise these metal doors in this way, but you raised them physically, because these doors, Mr. Minchev, are the same doors that Tsveta Karayancheva put on the other National Assembly 2019. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u229	Is there a third line? I can't see. Mr. Donchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u230	Dear colleagues, every parliamentary procedure, every speech in this House is a chance to learn something that does not know whether the chance to oppose the other, who is possibly wrong. To that end, it is important to listen to what the other person is saying, and it is also important to understand what the other person is saying. My fellow Members, I am very sad to say that none of you have understood what I said. I don't know if you've heard me, you misunderstand me. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u231	The next entry is Nastimir Ananiev for speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We have heard various arguments why we are currently discussing the opposition's proposal for the resignation of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, but in fact in some of them, by the way, it was said: should the new ones be like the old ones? No, you don't. In fact, if we want change, on the contrary, there must be something new and something different. Many of the people who are speaking use political speaking, of course, but only from GERB have I heard a lot of personal attacks against Mr. Ivanov, which I personally do not accept, because anyone who has closely followed his conduct can see that he was stricter to the coalition than to the opposition. I also think that he is a responsible, reasonable and objective person who is actually one of the faces of Change. It is understandable that the status quo in the face of GERB and DPS, with the help of, of course, aging, wants to confront one of the faces of the Change. That's quite understandable. The point is, I'd say you'd recognize them by fear. Some ruled with fear, others ruled regions with fear, and others raised their ratings with fear. The point is, we're not afraid, we're not going to give in to fear. And what I want to say to Mr. Miroslav Ivanov is that it is not important who is against you, it is important who is next to you. And the entire parliamentary group and all coalition colleagues are there for you, so bravely forward. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u233	Are there any lines to Mr. Ananiev's statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u234	Thank you. Normally, I didn't want to take a line from you, but your ridiculous statement to compare your birthright to GERB and DPS just got me out here. It's one thing to roll down the hallways, it's another to understand the political situation. Mr. Ananiev, I can give you a number of examples when rebirth was constructive. It's the freshest one since morning. So please very much, don't involve us where we don't belong, and we've proven that we're in a completely different position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u235	Is there another line? Mr. Mitev. [[Noise, lines and laughter.]] I'll refrain from commenting, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u236	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ananiev, thank you for comparing GERB to AGE. Yes, GERB thinks they are special and that is why we are looking at Mr. Ivanov's resignation today. They think they're special, and that's why Mrs. Iskra Mihaylova was waving her card around in front of the police trying to keep her. Yeah, they're very similar. They look like one party straight. Thank you, Mr. Ananiev, for this analogy. [[(Private applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u237	Mr. Ananiev, you're entitled to the doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u238	Mr. Taslakov, you're using the expression again, you're rolling down the hallways. Remember that when you say that you are rolling in the hallways, you must continue to be beaten, pushed, with bodily harm, you were gassed by protests, summer protests from 2020, where your members were also present. [[noise and lines]] Unfortunately, only two or three of your group have seen at the protests. [[Audiences and laughter from rebirth.]] Everyone else, you're all a little stranger to me as faces. But that's not the point. The point is that you have to give an answer to your voters why you are voting together with GERB and DPS, why are you joining their games! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] You must give this answer to your constituents. That's actually the big problem, because you're supposed to be an opposition that should be with the new one, and it should be against the new one, but you're sitting hand in hand with the status quo. [[(Replys from GERB-SDS: It is not true! You are the status quo!]] And with them, you bring in different things. Mr. Mitev, yes, there are people who want to use their privileges. They're waving MP cards. That's how they understand privilege. That's why I just said that there are people here, Mr. Ivanov is a man who doesn't want to flaunt his privileges. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And I think it is appropriate that the MPs do not flaunt their privileges but actually work in the interests of the citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u239	I give the floor to Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u240	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I took the liberty of doing a procedure at the beginning of the session because I knew what would happen to the debate. When there is no motive, when there is no proposal, there is no debate on the substance. Here we talked about parliamentaryism, about how our daily lives should go, we got to the metal doors, we got back to who put them in the Party House. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I learned with interest that it was Tsveta Karayancheva, I didn't know. And all sorts of other things. And the essence of what was imported, no one said anything about either the systematic violations of Mr. Ivanov or the repeated violations. And it becomes clear, by the way, from the very draft decision, which has been submitted, colleagues, the first to sign under the importers is Kostadin Kostadinov and the colleagues from the rebirth, then Mrs. Atanasova and Mrs. Karadayi were added as chairmen of parliamentary groups. In other words, the parliamentary group of ARGUING is concerned about the attitude of the Vice-President of the Parliament to the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of GERB! [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applauses from "BSP" for Bulgaria " and "We continue the Change."]] And I really ask my fellow Members to explain it in some way to their constituents, because when they entered this Parliament and this building, they spoke differently, and now they are doing something else. And it must be clear to everyone what the point of today's debate is. The point of today's debate is not Miroslav Ivanov's resignation, because you know very well that you have no motive for this. This is your no-confidence rehearsal, only because you're afraid to ask for it, because in the morning you're going on TV and you're saying that the government should leave an hour sooner, some end up here with every statement with resignation, I'm not going to finish what, but you're afraid to write it, and you're like this, the government's resignation, a no-confidence vote. [[Shows the draft decision on Miroslav Ivanov's resignation with the signatures of the importers.]] Why are you afraid, colleagues? Because you know the result, and now you're trying this thing to see what a majority is going to collect. Well, you're gonna gather up, I see rebirth, I see GERB, I see DPS. This is the majority you will gather, only in an incomplete formation, that is to say, judge your forces, as they say. Now a little bit of what we've been saying. More than once, Mr. Glauchev's behavior has been cited in Mrs. Ninova's removal. Yes, Mr. Glauchev was a worthy MP, a worthy colleague and I cannot say the same about his role as President of the National Assembly. Because, who has read the transcripts, knows very well here there are colleagues who have been present in this Chamber, how not only did the President then punish the largest opposition group, drive it out of the Chamber and remove it for meetings, for the number one, two or three, I do not know how much it was.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u241	One! One.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u242	On the same day he suspended the deputy chairman of the parliamentary group Mr. Kutev for three meetings. You forgot, didn't you? You forgot?! I mean, then he can, but now he can't!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u243	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u244	And without reason. And now, to refresh both the media and you. No, Mr. Glauchev didn't give up on himself. Mr. Glauchev came to parliament this morning, there, in that office, but there came Mr. Borisov. Mr. Ananiev, not from Bankya, here came Mr. Borisov. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Here comes Mr. Borisov and withdraws him from office. That's it! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] There was no decent behavior of the chairman, who, you see, withdrew his mistake. Because after that, he repeatedly said that if he had to do the same thing again, he would do the same. So much for Mr. Glauchev. Let's go back to the next chairman Mrs. Karayancheva. Colleagues, if you so want decent and decent behavior, why didn't you resign when Mrs. Karayancheva was asked for her resignation? With motives, then the opposition's arguments all you wanted, there was even a colleague of yours who gave her a bouquet for surviving another no-confidence vote. So, colleagues, you can prepare a bouquet for Mr. Ivanov eventually so that you can compare procedures. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, let me remind you one more thing, because it's parliamentary experience, Mr. Donchev said sometime it's a good thing, but sometimes it's not a good thing. I, colleagues, did not have a complete statement not from this tribune, but from that other room, without being interrupted by both Mr. Glauchev and Mr. Emil Hristov, and by Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva, three minutes, the third minute I was taken the floor; two minutes of reply, the second minute I was spoken. That's how they led the meeting. [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] Who said, "Bullshit"? [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] Sasho, check it out! You can see in the transcripts how many times I've finished my speeches. Anyway, that's not the point. The important thing is that in these arguments, honourable Members, there is neither recurrence nor systemicity nor any rude attitude. I would be the first to stand up and protect Mrs. Atanasova if there was such a thing, not for anything else, but because she is a colleague, chairman of a parliamentary group. She's just been given the word, and because she has more parliamentary experience than I do, she knows how to speak, she knows how to take her word for it. Naturally, she came out of the procedure and, of course, the President imposed punishment on her. However, both the punishment and the taking of the floor and the procedure in the manner of conduct are rules in the Rules of Procedure, honourable Members. It says in the Rules: The speaker, the speaker of Parliament at this time, may be taken away from us, and here is the place to tell all Members of the National Assembly the person behind us is the chairman of the meeting, is not the chair, is not the chair, is not the chair, is not the organizer, he is the chair at the moment he meets, so this is for the archive to be known. Dear colleagues, there is no violation, no insult to Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Ivanov is doing his job perfectly. The fact that he annoys you at some point shows that he follows his rules. And sometimes it annoys us when it violates the Rules of Procedure to give you more opportunity to speak, but in the end we come to the spirit of the law. And because Mr. Angelov said that he was one of the most tolerant MPs, Mr. Angelov, you were both of the crowds of MPs when they were one time in my presence, the other time Mrs. Atanasova, you were at the front, you led these MPs. [[(Strong noise and applause from BSP for ……]] So I do not reproach you, but I am telling you that this parliamentary practice is good. It's emotion, energy, but that doesn't make you the most tolerant MP. What's more, you're offering meds, I understand, from place to place. It is nice to do these treatments in the office, at least the gym should not be made a doctor's office, because you may be useful to someone, but not by giving medicines from the parliamentary tribune to fellow MPs. Finally, honourable Members, I will conclude by saying that our parliamentary group will not support the proposed draft decision. We stand behind the Vice-President of Parliament, we stand behind all the leadership we have chosen, because we have all chosen them, both the President and the Vice-President, and we give them the courage to continue in the same way to govern us, to guide us within the competences assigned to them. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] Yes, in the same way, without breaking the rules, so that we can ultimately do the work for which we have been chosen, and believe me, in the last three hours is not what the people have sent us here for. [[Noise and lines.]] In the last three hours we have shown another three hours of wasted time for Bulgarian parliamentaryism, for Bulgarian citizens and I hope that this vote will make it clear that in Bulgaria there is a ruling coalition that in Bulgaria there is a ruling majority of much more than 121 MPs, the opposition will sober up, work a little more on the organizational forms and when it gathers support when it gathers the necessary number of MPs, so you can submit a vote of no confidence to the government, you may eventually achieve success. In the next three and a half years, I don't see how this thing's gonna work! Thank you. [[(We are continuing the Change (BSP) for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u245	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u246	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Svilensky, you've said a lot of wrong things. One thing is true is that you will certainly support the Vice-President in today's vote to remain in this position. But you quickly forget, quickly forget what opposition you were, what you called the government and no one interrupted you. I'll leave that to your conscience. [[Noise and lines.]] I'll leave that to your conscience. I'm leaving him to nothing because his conscience is like this... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Get out of here and tell me what I lied about. But, Mr. Svilensky, you said one very important thing, that is, two important things. One is for the vote of no confidence. Mr. Svilenski, we, as we set out to prepare this vote of mistrust, the price of electricity is getting higher, inflation is getting higher, your government is signing more and more memorandums with foreign companies and giving the Bulgarian energy to the helm! We're trying to figure out what to do to write this vote of mistrust. And I think it's finally going to be about complete creativity. But he, the vote of confidence, is also measured by the sociological agencies and you must be worried about it, and Prime Minister Kiril Petkov is in parliament today to check on how you will vote. [[Laughter]] Or some part of the House of the ruling majority, maybe that's why. That's your logic. Mr. Svilenski, when we asked for this resignation, it was really about how the debate in parliament was conducted and with all due respect to parliamentaryism and the debate in this Parliament, I went out on Friday to ask the chairman then for the unjust withdrawal of the opposition's floor. Because if he was a balancer and he was leading the debate skillfully, he missed the meeting then he didn't say it in his personal capacity, I said it in his capacity as chairman, then you didn't notice how the Council of Ministers behaved. But it will be appreciated by people, and very soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u247	Second line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Svilenski, I, as a young parliamentary member, have looked into shorthands from previous parliaments to look for similar examples, and I would just like to tell you both to you and to colleagues about examples of political party Chairs GERB how they were treated in similar situations.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u249	How?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u250	For example, on 11 February 2021 the President Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva takes away the floor of the MP from BSP Pavel Shopov with the words: "I take your word away. You have no right to continue under this procedure. [[Reply: Paul Shopov is from Ataka, not from BSP.]] I apologize if I messed up the group, I'm just demonstrating that Mrs. Karayancheva took the floor too. Looking further back in time, I also examined the practice of Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva. For example, it has taken much more of the floor, in fact, of MPs. For example, on 11 March 2015, your esteemed colleagues, Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva, as Parliament Speaker, took the floor of the MP Grozdan Karadjov after three warnings, while he exceeded the time of his speech. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u251	Dr. Ademov has the word for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Svilensky... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u253	Do you want to hear the Doctor, or what?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u254	...you know how much I respect you, Mr. Svilensky, but what you've been doing for the past five months is extremely strange, your behavior is strange. You're very quick to get involved in the role of governors. I want to tell you that when speeding turns are taken, then there is a danger of catastrophic events, you know that thing very well. Reference to current sociological agencies what they say about your behaviour. Next, you certainly know that today's discussion is in no way intended to humiliate the authority of our young colleague Miroslav Ivanov. Moreover, today's discussion aims, if possible, in some way to correct part of its behaviour, because it is not always the respect of the letter and the point of the law that works in parliamentary activity. Sometimes breaking the Rules turns out to be a plus for the host of the National Assembly, and sometimes when it is not respected... Or vice versa, when the letter and comma of the law is observed, then it turns out that charges against the lead sitting are being initiated, and in other cases, where the President or the leader allows in any way a breach, a breach of the rules of the Rules, this proves to be favourable to the discussion. So this thin difference, if we can overcome it in this discussion and not blame each other, this discussion would do its job and the purpose that the opposition has set with this discussion could make some sense. Therefore, my request is, continuing this discussion, let us avoid personal attacks and in no way humiliate the dignity of the young colleague and in no way express our emotions in it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u255	Mr. Svilensky, you're entitled to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ivanov, since it was said several times what you were called by this tribune, including the killers, you have recognized yourself. I remember what the occasion was. The occasion was that great crash of Svoge, where 20 and several people died, and you weren't called murderers, but it was called politics, led in the last 10 years, murderous, but that's what you decided. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] But that's what you said! Whatever. From this tribune, this parliamentary group on the left of the BSP for Bulgaria was sent to Siberia, we were called thugs, we were called all sorts of things, and there are facts, and there are stenograms, and this is the good thing for those colleagues who stand and write and stenograph these things, so let's not go back to who said what, but surely you are not called murderers either as people, nor as MPs, or as ministers, because I see some of the ministers from the cabinet here, but the policy was such, the policy was murderous and the people said it in the end. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Stoilov, you're right. There is no basis for comparing tolerance, the attitude from the 40th to the 40th National Assembly, and then, yes, it is. The opposition of the second, third or fifth minute was taken away no matter who spoke, no matter what and no matter who. If it was time to take the floor, it was taken away very strictly, so you've done a good job of digging into the archives. Mr. Ademov, our respect is mutual. You know that you are one of the people who also have the respect not only of me, but of the parliamentary group, I suppose, and of the majority of the MPs, but you said now it is not my job, of course, your right to choose is, why you have signed here. You want to achieve some noble objective of correcting the behaviour of the Vice-President or of the other Vice-Presidents who are in charge of the meeting. Yeah, well, that's not what the Project of Solution says. It does not say to correct or to turn on red lamp, but it says: "I release Miroslav Ivanov!" Come out now and say: we wanted to, the debate took place, we corrected and now we will not support the solution because we have achieved the goal. This objective can be achieved when there is dialogue. You know that every Wednesday at eight and a half there is a chairmanship council. Not once have I been present, I dare say that I have missed one or two meetings, has raised the question of the behaviour, the leadership of Mr. Ivanov, of any of the Vice-Presidents, or of the President of the plenary. Not one time! There are presidents here. We were only looking at the case of Mr. Angelov's punishment. Once the punishment was considered, but not the way of holding the sitting itself, so if that was your goal, really the right behavior is not to support you. [[the President signals that time has run out]] The goal, I suppose, has been achieved... [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov: "Don't underestimate me! "]] I don't underestimate you. On the contrary, I am telling you that if that was the goal, but if the goal is the other one I am talking about, we will now see during the vote how things will turn out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u257	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. The next entry for a speech is Mr. Peter Petrov from ARCHIVE..........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u258	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Members of Parliament! My opinion on the requested resignation of Vice-President Miroslav Ivanov will save it for myself. That's not the point of my speech. I'm standing here before you, colleagues, because I can't find an answer to one question. So far, in a few hours, I heard what happened, I heard a debriefing about how it went down, examples from the previous practice, and I also heard a defense of the Vice-President colleague, but, colleagues, I didn't hear one thing, I can't answer, we figured out how it went down here, but, colleagues, how are we going to work from here on out? The request for resignation of Vice-President Ivanov was signed by the three opposition parties. Assuming the majority is in favour of keeping him in the vice president's seat, how are we going to work from now on? Whether it will not happen that every time he has to be the head of a plenary session, there is no purpose to use the word "to hide it" and I do not say it badly, but so to protect himself so as not to provoke the anger of the opposition, whether fair or not. I guess they're hiding Tsoncho Ganev in the same way, because in the past 20 plenary weeks he's been recruited twice. Perhaps the idea is the same because someone has spoken here many times that you respect, ladies and gentlemen ruling, with the opposition, this is how you deal with the opposition and this is how you treat the opposition. So let's get back to the way we're working from here on out. If my esteemed colleague is, of course, in charge of the sitting, will any action of his will be viewed by the opposition under a magnifying glass and we will work under the same tensions and expect every time he does, whether for good, whether for bad, he has carried out one procedure or another, to immediately have a string of parliamentary procedures? Yesterday, I think there was an example. Am I right? Is this how we're going to work? Are we going to work under these conditions, honourable Members? I therefore appeal to the ruling majority with one request and one proposal. Let us not go to the vote, let the Vice-President resign himself, given that he has 80 signatures against the position he holds. I believe that this will be appreciated well by opposition parties. I believe that we do not need to come to a vote, but we can give a good example of how the need for dialogue, which has been proclaimed here several times already, can find its manifestation and we do not even need to vote on this thing. Let us find a way from now on to see how to work better between government and opposition, because it is not pleasant for anyone, and I will only agree with many of the negotiators here to lead this dispute, even for me. And again, I'm telling you, my opinion will save it for myself, that's not the point of my speech. That is why I am proposing: that we do not go to the vote, that our colleague resign, that we choose someone else in his place, and from now on I believe that we will work more normally. Just think what would happen if we got back to the same situation? Should we, in a month's time, imagine that such a request has been submitted again, colleagues, are we going to discuss again a request for the release of Vice-President Miroslav Ivanov? What, then, if such a request is submitted again, will we expose ourselves further? Finally, I would like to address the President. Mr. Chairman, if I may, a well-intentioned criticism. No, I'm not gonna say criticism so it doesn't get misinterpreted, but I'm sorry. Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry that in five and a half months I saw you here for the first time speaking when you were defending your vice-president. I would very much like to have seen you much more often, and I hope to see you much more often than this tribune, Mr President, on matters on the agenda and on other issues on the agenda. It would really be nice both for me and for all the other colleagues. I think when we received Chairman Minchev, I think we lost the MP Minchev. I hope this gets better. I believe that parliamentaryism can only benefit from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u259	Thank you. Are there any lines to Mr. Petrov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u260	Dear Mr. Petrov, I am afraid that your call not to vote will not be heard because Prime Minister Kiril Petkov came here to order him not to resign. [[(Laughter, applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u261	Mrs. Zaharieva has some special abilities. Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u262	Mr. Chairman, my line is this. I'm even sorry it's in the form of a line. Mr. Petrov, because you asked what we would do if Vice-President Ivanov remained in his post? We have done our job in the National Assembly, we have led it with the President of the National Assembly, not with the Vice-President of the National Assembly, to whom we asked for the resignation and did not submit it, namely Tsveta Karayancheva. And when Tsveta Karayancheva did not resign, but took away the floor and I am one of those victims, and it was within the procedure and not outside the procedure, we continued our work because this is how they enjoin the traditions of parliamentaryism, and she remained in office, so this is what we will do. But I want something to pay attention to what you said, and I apologize for delaying the time. Mr. Tsoncho Ganev hasn't held a meeting, as we all know, but lately we all don't see Mr. Tsoncho Ganev sitting on that stand in the back, and no one can stop him from doing it. And that is probably because you know well, too, Tsoncho Ganev does not want to sit up next to this composition of the National Assembly's leadership. That's the reason I think, at least, so no one's hiding Mr. Tsoncho Ganev or anyone else. And one sentence, allow me, because I think that in this debate should be heard the chairmen of the committees in which Mr. Ivanov is a member. I am one of the Chairs of the Sports Commission, he is a member of Constitutional and Legal Affairs. His work and his work in these committees is impeccable. He's not a conflicted person. You should have heard those opinions. And I'm saying this without any courtesy or anything else, so I had to take that into account, and I think I'm gonna take it. I think that quite logically everything has been heard in this Chamber and let us proceed to the vote, but the arguments for Mr. Ivanov to stay are more and heavier. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mrs. Atanasova will sanction me for the time I gave you. A hole? I won't. There are two colleagues left with the floor, and then Mrs. Atanasova, of course. [[Voices from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] It's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u264	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is clear that systematic violations of the Rules of Procedure committed or committed by Mr. Miroslav Ivanov will not. This is the reason why, with a clear conscience, I will vote against the proposed solution and in favour of Mr. Ivanov. As I would say in the Chamber: the decision is unfounded from a factual and legal point of view. The second thing, I would like to remind you of an incident that happened here - many colleagues were not impressed, but I was greatly impressed - and informed my attitude to the debate here, and perhaps to the opposition. Then an opposition colleague came out and made a statement, which was 180 degrees different from his party's position and from the position he had previously defended in various appearances, and the House reminded him of this thing. The response of the fellow Member was: "Well, it doesn't matter, I am an opposition, we can do whatever we want. " - This is somehow the attitude I see from the opposition, including from today's debate. [[Heckling]] Lack of consistency, lack of appreciation of words, lack of appreciation of positions and today's debate is an example of this thing. The general argument was once again an expression of disagreement in positions, was:.................................................................................................... Please remove the person who won't let us violate the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Those were the things you said today. My opinion is, my observation is that Mr. Ivanov conducts the meetings in a consistent order and principled manner. I know this is new to you, but this is it. You often ask us: Is this your change? Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u265	Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u266	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gochev, you have not understood what we have to say. I'd rather go to Mr. Ivanov. I would advise him not to listen to you and the colleagues you encourage him. It is clear that you have a majority and perhaps this resignation will not be accepted. What is important is that Mr. Ivanov understands that thanks to certain actions he has become some kind of target, which means that he may have made a mistake somewhere, so don't have an uncritical look, as well as your parliamentary group - not everything you do is perfect. Be convinced that you are wrong in many ways as you have been wrong before you ruling majorities and as all people confuse, so do not have this feeling of infallibility. Regarding Mr. Gochev. Since older colleagues, more experienced, like Mr. Svilensky, talked here about how Mrs. Ninova was expelled, I will tell you: do you know why Mr. Glauchev then resigned? He did not submit it because he loved Mrs. Ninova very much, he submitted it because BSP then "the then BSP," which was much more basic than the current one, said he would leave the parliament if Glauchev remained president. Mr. Glauchev resigned to have opposition in parliament. This is very important. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] The opposition is a very important thing and you have to understand it. Without opposition, be assured that it will be far more difficult for you than with opposition. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u267	Thank you. Is there another line? Mr. Gochev, would you like a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bikov, thank you and you for what you said, paraphrasing: the goal is to be a target, not because something has done wrong and wrong. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I'm sorry if I'm paraphrasing you in a not 100% accurate way. I understand this statement because it became clear that with political speaking your arguments are often not accepted by the majority, nor by society is it what you may have understood, and now you have started with personal attacks and the first personal attack is to Mr. Ivanov that we understand, but obviously does not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u269	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Atanasova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, although the debate may have run out of much of the arguments, I am obliged, as chairman of the largest opposition group, to take attitude rather than in personal capacity, because I was taken away last Friday. First of all, several things have become clear from this debate - a retrospect of various events, perhaps for a lesson. I advise colleagues with less political experience to take this political lesson, not the personal one. The big plus of this debate. The opposition is obviously united not personally against the personality of one of the vice-presidents of the Bulgarian Parliament, but against the harsh violation of the spirit of parliament. In the beginning, honourable Members, you came with requests that parliamentaryism, the rule of law, the rule of law, democracy will return. Did you come back a few months later? Has parliamentaryism returned to a building chained to bars, gentlemen? In a building. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] In which there is neither the spirit of the Constitution nor the spirit of pluralism? In a building where you're trying to push the opposition into the bottom and take away her right to speak? Is that the positive change? You know that's not it. You know, I am convinced that the return of parliamentaryism is not the denial of the opposition from the right to debate, it is not the withdrawal of the opposition's word, no matter which parliamentary group. Therefore, in this case, the opposition is united, although it has its diametrically opposite decisions on various bills. And today it is demonstrated, although some of the opposition sometimes supports your decisions. What else have we learned from this debate? We understand that it is very difficult for you to do two things: to admit that you have made a mistake and to understand that nothing begins with you. And yes, the names of modern politicians, who were presidents of the National Assembly, were given the names of those who for the first time defended the right to opposition and the right of governors to speak freely from this tribune. We saw in all the speeches or in those of the majority of the ruling majority something like a mix of lawyer's plea mixed with football comments. There was also a terminology for charts, for better teams. My fellow Members, I think that you have taken this debate too laconically. Obviously you do not realize that these 8% approval quotes, which currently have parliament and which are the lowest perhaps in the last 25 years in the history of Bulgarian parliamentaryism, are not due to the opposition. It is not due to the opposition or is not due only to the opposition. On the contrary, the government. The government is a major commitment both to increase trust in the Bulgarian institutions and to find balance, to seek dialogue and solutions in constructiveism with the Bulgarian opposition, because it represents Bulgarian citizens on the Constitution. Last time I checked, she's seen a lot of things in this building. There were days when television broadcasts devoted hours to the President and the Vice-President of Parliament and it wasn't so long ago that the government relied on the support of a random majority. That time, thank God, hasn't arrived yet. And I turn to you personally, honourable representatives of "We are continuing the Change" and Mr. Ivanov and Mr. Minchev: do not allow Parliament to collapse further, parliamentaryism to be compared only with the word scandal, and you, Mr. Minchev, to be president not of the National Assembly, but of a building with bars. Whether it's a prison, whether it's a zoo or something, it's up to us, but mostly it's up to you, because you're the first among equals. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u271	You want a line? Here you go. Mr. Dilov, Mrs. Atanasova's line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Atanasova, as you recall, the numbers are not much to show, but around 13% is the current parliament's approval, at 8% I think it is forty-four, where it was the lowest approval. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Now, I'm a little confused by your speeches. I didn't understand, on the one hand, Mr. Thomas Bikov said he had a target, you said it wasn't a personal attack. After all, it is very clear to everyone what you are doing at any given time and on every occasion you are trying to insert wedges and shake this government, no matter how not statesmanic this behavior is in this state of crisis, both the state and the society. And what has been noticed in the Chamber is this: yes, you have made your attempt to see that the opposition is united, but what is also seen is that the ruling coalition is united and is behind Mr. Ivanov. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u273	Mr. Dilov, come in for a line. Is there a third line? I can't see. I'm sorry, but you don't have time. [[Relations from the National Representative Lyuben Dilov.]] How much? [[Heckling]] You have one second. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Okay, 10 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, you're very generous. Mrs. Atanasova, colleagues! The decision of the Ministry of Culture Inspectorate has just come out, and we're being fined for these bars. So take it as a procedure, and order it removed immediately. Thank you. [[Extreme applause by GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u275	Okay. It's too fast. What, you said a desk? You don't want a hole. Atanas Mihnev wanted the floor. You have one minute. [[Loud noise, lines and laughter by GERB-SDS.]] One minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u276	Last and without claims that I can summarize on behalf of everyone, dear colleagues, will not support the request for resignation of Miroslav Ivanov. I will support Miroslav Ivanov, whom I know as a perfect professional. GERB wanted to bring confusion to us with this procedure and succeeded. And I'll tell you how they did it. They succeeded because when I read the reasons for systematic failure to deal with the debts, I said to myself: "Hey, well, they will ask for Rositsa Kirova's resignation. [[Laughter and excitement.]] However, it turns out that not Rositsa Kirova wants the resignation, but Miroslav's. And here comes the time to tell Mr. Ivanov: Mr. Ivanov, as Assen Vassilev told us at the beginning of our political career, do not worry if GERB attack you. That means you're doing something very right. Thank you! [[(Applause from..We continue the Change...........................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u277	Victoria Vasileva has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u278	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is not the first procedure at the request of the resignation of a President or Vice-President of the National Assembly, and it will probably not be the last, as far as I know the mores of the Bulgarian Parliament, of which unfortunately the Bulgarian Parliament cannot somehow be brightly separated. The Bulgarian Parliament is the emancipation of the state of the Bulgarian people because it broadcasts us as its representatives in this Chamber. Today we have heard very nice words about parliamentaryism, about the spirit of parliamentaryism, about the fact that we should not only respect the point of law, as is our rule, but we should respect its spirit, and we are all absolutely in agreement with that. But I think that if there is one thing that we could all do together to end this bad image of the National Assembly and really stop its headstrong fall in public trust, it is if we apply the same energy and zeal with which we look for the cousors and mistakes of others, to realize and see our own vices and mistakes. Then I think we're going to find this balance, and everyone's going to be... there's no way everyone can be completely satisfied, but at least there's going to be some balance. Nature is always looking for it, why not look for it within this Parliament. Here were mentioned the names of many of the previous Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. Really extraordinary people. But we shouldn't compare people to each other because each person is his own separate universe. Yes, an inevitable person purely on a subconscious level sometimes makes analogies, makes comparisons with predecessors sitting here on this tribune, but anyway each person has his own character, has his own handwriting, has his own style of behavior, of expression, of everything. In this order of thought I would like to say that the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" will support Mr. Miroslav Ivanov in order to continue to perform his functions as Vice-President [[Applause from IHN and "We are continuing the Change"]] , in the hope that he really listened to everything good and bad that was said about him and the spirit that reigns in this Parliament within today's debate. And I'm sure as a smart man he'll try to correct if he thinks he's wrong, we'll also know how wise he is, part of his behavior. Just because we believe that every person needs a second chance, let this be Mr. Miroslav Ivanov's second chance and continue to perform his function as Vice-President. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN and "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u279	Thank you to Mrs. Vasileva. Are there any lines? I can't see. You want a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be extremely brief, even slightly contradicting my colleague Victoria Vasileva. I mean, I won't contradict that we will support Miroslav Ivanov, yes, we will do that as a parliamentary group. I will speak as myself: I fully support the behavior that Mr. Miroslav Ivanov had the other day, because I think that is what men do and I think you did the right thing. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN and "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u281	Are there lines? I can't see. As they say, is there anyone else who wants to take the floor? I can't see. Thank you. We close the discussion on the point and move on to the vote. [[Reply from MP Miroslav Ivanov.]] Here you go. You're right. [[Heckling]] I'm sorry, don't they have time? The Rules of Procedure have the right to take matters into account, that's right. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. [[Heckling]] And in the trial, there's a last word to be said.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The hall is full and we may have been discussing for more than three hours a topic that I think is a political demagogy. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] I personally feel uncomfortable that we have wasted so much plenary time discussing my behaviour as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Why? I've always tried to follow the letter of the law, but not just the letter, but the spirit of the law. The Rules of the National Assembly shall have the rank of law. I have repeatedly let my opposition colleagues speak much more than the time allowed, and I have repeatedly left my opposition colleagues to speak essentially in procedures, so I consider these arguments to be absolutely untenable. Both the discussion itself today and the very motives that are mentioned in the draft decision clearly show that the colleagues who requested my early release have no reasonable arguments, no good motivation. These arguments are untenable. President Minchev did a very good analysis, which I absolutely support as arguments and as logic. But, colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to something. There are 240 people here. No one alone can determine the behavior of these 240 people. Their behavior depends on their upbringing, on their morals, on their dignity, honor, words that are increasingly used here, from this tribune, and increasingly are observed by this tribune when fellow Members speak. And yes, very often I as Vice-President and leading a meeting feel uncomfortable by the behaviour of colleagues, by what they say, by what they do. I, colleagues, am asking 15 or 20 MPs to come out here and block the work of the National Assembly. I am not the one who once turned disrespectful to someone from the opposition, colleagues, and from the DPS, and from the rebirth, and from GERB. Although I have repeatedly been the subject of insults, by you, colleagues from GERB, and by colleagues from ARCE. I have repeatedly been the subject of insults, unfair treatment, disrespectful treatment. Some of those moments were mentioned today. But I've always kept the good tone, and I've never allowed myself to disrespect any of you. Mrs. Atanasova, personal to you. If you felt offended, you have my apology if you, personally. [[Extreme applauses from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", and "DPS."]] Although I don't think I did anything wrong in this situation. And that doesn't mean I don't understand the situation. I understand this situation perfectly. It's also for Mr. Tsonev. I understand, and as I said, I'm trying to apply the spirit of parliamentaryism. But the spirit of parliamentaryism is not anarchy, it's not endless will, it's not endless violation of the rules. Colleagues, please try to understand that. From this tribune were really prominent Bulgarians. No small part of them stood in the back. I do not feel at the level of the names that Mr. Kostadinov or Mr. Petrov mentioned at all, but I am trying and trying to respect the spirit of the law, to respect the spirit of parliamentaryism, to work fruitfully and to do the work for which we are elected here. Colleagues, really one appeal: let one of you who has lost the words somewhere along the way and try to find them, because it will be only for the good of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[(Deputies from the Parliamentary Group of.. We continue the Change..................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-19.u283	Honourable Members, we must proceed to the vote. I'm just gonna take one sentence because I haven't had a chance to speak. [[Noise and lines.]] No, no, don't worry, I won't say much. [[Laughter and excitement.]] In Roman law, there is one rule that is fundamental in law in principle: no one should draw rights from their improper conduct, so vote on conscience. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Project! DECISION for the early release of Miroslav Ivanov as Deputy President of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Miroslav Ivanov from the post of Deputy President of the National Assembly. This is the draft decision that has been tabled. Please, vote procedure. Vote 210 MPs: 81 against 129, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause.]] Before I close the meeting, I'll read you the parliamentary control message for tomorrow. First of all, there will be a question debate tomorrow. Debate on the questioning of the MPs Stoyan Taslakov and Nikola Dimitrov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Governance Kalina Konstantinova on the state of the Bulgarian Post Office......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Secondly, questions and questions: - Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Governance Kalina Konstantinova will answer a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Georgi Gokov will answer one question from the MP Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Health Asena Serbenova will answer seven questions from the MPs Aleksandar Simidchiev two questions; Stefan Apostolov; Stefan Shilev and Ivan Totev; Iliana Zhekova and Ivaylo Hristov two questions; - Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov will answer two questions from the MPs Petar Petrov; Kostadin Stoykov and Rumen Hristov; - Deputy Prime Minister of Climate Policy and Minister of Environment and Water Borislav Sandov will answer two questions from the MPs Emil Georgiev and Dimitar Nikolov; - Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev will answer three questions from the MPs Hristo Gadzhev; Yavor Bojankov, two questions; - Minister of Innovation and Growth Daniel Lorere will answer two questions from the MPs Nikolay Drenchev; Yordan Tsonev, Petar Chobanov and Bajram Bajram; - Minister of Electronic Governance Bozidar Bojanov will answer two questions from the MPs Dimitar Nikolov; Blagovest Kirilov and Ivan Petkov; - Energy Minister Aleksandar Nikolov will answer a question from the MP Petar Kulenski; - Minister of Tourism Hristo Prodanov will answer three questions from the MPs Nikolina Angelkova; Stoyan Mihalev and Slavena Tocheva and one question from the MPs Nebi Kabak and Mumun Mumun; - Foreign Minister Teodora Gencovska will answer 1 question from the MP Rumen Hristov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 97, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly due to urgent commitments in the parliamentary control meeting will not participate: - Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadjov; - Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov; - Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov; - Secretary of Defense Dragomir Zakov. Thank you. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
