ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u1	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please register. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Point 1 of the agenda for the day is: the second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, and the first one for today. Before I read you a message: The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has authorised by its own orders: the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of a plane with crew members of the Greek Air Force; the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria and the landing on the territory of the country of the non-military nature of a plane with crew of the Swiss Air Force. The orders issued are within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the passage with a view to the defence of the country. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international sector regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, permissions to fly over the country's airspace should be granted to the countries concerned after positive opinions from the competent state authorities in these areas. The Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Notifies the National Assembly that servicemen and equipment from the armed forces of Portugal will pass through the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The notifications were received on 13 April 2022 by ICs, respectively. 47-203-09-36, 37 and 38 and provided to the Defence Committee. We move on to item one of the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE COURT OF JUSTICE. It was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022 at the first vote on 23 March 2022. There has been a report from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! "Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Judicial Tribunal Act No 47-202-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022, adopted on the first vote on 23 March 2022. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Judiciary (prom., SG No. ...)??...................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, in which the word "repair' is replaced by "deleted'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. I am opening a discussion on the title, § 1 and § 2. I give the floor to Mrs. Alexandrova. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! My request is that you report paragraph under paragraph, although there are paragraphs that are supported by the Commission and there are no proposals, but let the report be the same as written. Because we have speeches on almost every paragraph and my request is to be systematically correct, because you have now reported three paragraphs, I cannot speak on all three at the same time. I want every single one of them. Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My statement is by the title, the name of the bill. At the request of representatives of the Council of Europe yesterday, an online meeting of the Executive Board of the Permanent Conference of Prosecutors working against organised crime, corruption and terrorism was held. It discussed the upcoming closure of the specialized structures of the judiciary in the Republic of Bulgaria. All participants in the meeting expressed a negative opinion on the closure of structures called for to fight organised crime, terrorism and corruption. Foreign representatives voiced concerns about damaging the independence of magistrates, the rule of law and creating difficulties in working on international legal cooperation in criminal matters. A decision was taken to hold an extraordinary and immediate meeting on 28 April 2022 of the Executive Board of the Permanent Conference to issue a declaration in defence of the specialized structures of the judiciary in the Republic of Bulgaria. The establishment of the Permanent Conference, Members of the National Assembly, prosecutors working against organised crime, corruption and terrorism, is based on provisions of the UN Convention against Transnational Organised Crime signed in Palermo, Italy, in 2000. Its activities are supported by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. I am convinced that such an assessment of the majority's legislative initiative in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly would also give a number of other international institutions and organisations that have a bearing on the fight against organised crime. All of you, dear rulers, are aware of that. It is high time for this bill to be put to the vote at second reading, to tell the Bulgarian citizens whose interests you are defending, whether those of the state or the oligarchs who are facing heavy charges. Those are the same guys that made them justice fighters. The same ones who don't hide their support for all of you. Those who will be most pleased with the closure of the specialized structures in Bulgaria. I am sure, however, that the public will take you into account for this legislative proposal, which is the shameful epilogue of your failed governance. After bringing all sectors to ruin and collapse, you will now officially put your names in support of one of the most harmful bills for the state that will be voted on in this plenary. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any lines for Anna Alexandrova? Krum Zarkov for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, I take a reply in the limited time that is due to her by the name of the Law, because both in the Legal Committee and now, you seem unable to understand or do not want to understand what we are doing today at second reading. The decision to close the Specialized Prosecutor's Office and Court has already been made. It's taken three times. Why it is taken for the last time, although I do not expect this to change your opinion, and I am sure that in the following paragraphs you have asked to speak, you will also not enter into the details of what we need to do today, namely the settlement of the consequences of this decision. Please explain to the international observers you are quoting and to these conferences you are quoting what specialized justice is in its Bulgarian version. How it was created in 2011 precisely to throw dust into the eyes of the same European observers. How in 2017, power somehow began to transfer more and more competences to it, which had nothing to do with organised crime. How more cases of European funds went to him after 2017. How it suddenly turns out there's a court that the majority likes better than the others. Explain also to international observers how, between 2017 and especially after 2019, a black van has started circling Sofia and the country with the inscription "Specialized Prosecutor's Office" and to collect people, including active ministers, but not because they are condemned, but because they have measures for non-violence that no other court would accept. Explain to the prosecutors who are fighting terrorism and organised crime that the closure of the specialized courts does not mean that in Bulgaria no longer will anyone fight this phenomenon, but I hope it means that finally someone will start fighting, especially in the part of corruption. Please explain to them that there has been justice and justice in Bulgaria for a long time, and the Specialized Court has been working for 12 years and that this epilogue you are talking about really needs to happen in order to start something we have not known in the last 15 years, namely quality and the rule of law against corruption. Explain this to them, please. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u7	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Second line "Andrej Mihaylov."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, the speeches on the title are a handy tool for repeating the arguments of the first vote. We're practically expressing what we talked about here two weeks ago. We also had the opportunity to say the same in many hours in the Legal Committee. So let us not turn the speeches on the title into a duplication of the debate from the first vote. Perhaps two things are particularly important in the title of the judges' fate in the Specialized Criminal and Specialized Criminal Court, and the fate of the cases. In fact, behind all these debates that we are going to hear today in this House, there are only these two questions. We are particularly concerned about both. What about the cases? As we have repeatedly stated, our task is that none of these proceedings should be terminated or started at the beginning. This is a major task, I suppose, for all of the ruling coalition, I am sure, deeply hopeful of the opposition. Regarding the fate of the judges. We have not once expressed an opinion here or in the Legal Commission that we want to pursue, in any way, to deploy judges. Now I guess we'll hear them from you or from your colleagues these arguments. That was never the purpose and the bill that we are going to be dealing with at the moment does not aim at this result at all. So I suggest that we limit ourselves in our speech, especially on the title, on what this law aims at, how international organisations will monitor us, sanction us. Justice in Bulgaria on the fight against organised crime will not disappear, and also on the fight against corruption, not that specialized justice sparked in the fight against corruption in any way. Even prosecutors have admitted that this is the main deficit. So let us limit ourselves to these statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Third line from Atanas Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs. Alexandrova! Perhaps you neglected to explain to this group of prosecutors at the Conference, which I first heard, by the way, forgive my ignorance... is not one of the bodies of the Council of Europe, such as the Venice Commission, as the Advisory Council of European Judges, such as the Advisory Council of European Prosecutors, is not such a body of the Council of Europe. But since you've mobilised such strong international support to protect the Special Prosecutor's Office, let's be correct. Perhaps you should share with this prestigious international community of prosecutors that some of the prosecutors in the Special Prosecutor's Office are the ones who wanted special intelligence against protesters citizens in 2020. These special intelligence funds were authorised by the Specialized Criminal Court. Perhaps it is good to get acquainted with this frontal experience of the Bulgarian Special Prosecutor's Office in the fight against the serious organized crime in the Bulgarian squares protesting against your government, these authoritative prosecutors and perhaps then their zealous protection of the Special Prosecutor's Office would change slightly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u11	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, fellow Members, for your lines. I'll start back and forth from the esteemed Mr. Slavov. Dear Mr. Slavov, we did not mobilize someone's structures. Not us! People are watching us and seeing what's happening. After all, we are in the European Union, we are a member of the European Union, you see that we are not. You're talking about me talking about dryers and so on. This has been demonstrated in the Commission by a report. These are your empty words that you are trying to plant through both Minister Rashkov and through your claims. Absolutely nothing has been proven in court nor in the report with which the Commission came out. To Mr. Mikhailov. Dear Mr. Mihailov, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have the right to speak, according to the regulation, for five minutes in each paragraph, each Member of the National Assembly in this Chamber. I don't think there's anything I've broken since the debate started. Whether this is a debate in terms of first reading, or whether this is a debate in terms of second reading, it is not up to you or anyone else. People are watching us, watching us. The debate is important! You're shutting down a specialized court and prosecutor's office. What are you worried about, what are you hiding from?! Let the people hear the debate. It's important! Why? The way you do it, it's not good. Yes, the important problems have not been settled.. nor have you arranged the status of judges and prosecutors for reassignment in a way that should be like the others, neither have you done it, nor do I see in the Report that you have done it. Regarding Mr. Zarkov. I repeat, yes, the way you do it is the problem, Mr. Zarkov. And very soon I think you will have to explain to your constituents, not us explaining to someone whose oligarchic circles you are supporting right now. Because these cases, gentlemen, we will follow them. They will sink somewhere in the dark, but we will demand your political responsibility from this tribune. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u13	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am taking this opportunity to clarify a very important fact about the legality of the wiretap during the protests. It was said that this was not true and was clarified in the work of the Commission in the previous National Assembly. I would like to point out that this is not correct. There are at least five Special Intelligence Control Bureau decisions, at least five decisions that establish an unlawful request for wiretap and unlawful authorisation of wiretap in these cases. I will provide them to you, ladies and gentlemen, to stop these false speculations. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u15	Thank you, Madam Secretary. To make a statement, Dimitar Gochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! What I mean to say is that we have already heard about the discussion on the title of the main manipulation that is being discussed in the entire debate. The manipulation we heard in two committees, in the first discussion at first reading that there are no judges outside the specialized judges in Bulgaria, there are no prosecutors outside the special prosecutors, that is not true! In Bulgaria there are solid specialists outside these courts who are not true that they will work. We cannot talk about favouring organised crime because it will not contain exactly this institution, but the relevant case, which is related to organised crime. [[Noise and lines.]] That is what I wanted to say.. it is not true that cases related to organised crime will in some way be chicified. This shows a very low opinion and a very low assessment of the Bulgarian judiciary and these professionals. The people who work in the Specialized Prosecutor's Office and the Special Court will remain at work, will continue to be magistrates and their specialization will continue to be used. They will be able to participate in the fight against organised crime as they have done so far. There's no lustration, there's no displacement, and these are things that are supporting points that are, fortunately, not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u17	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. A line from Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u18	Dear Mr. Gochev, I disagree with you and I will say why. Because you have the political will to make change good. I told you that in the Commission, again in your Chamber, you have it, do it properly. You don't solve the two main problems. Yes, these cases will sink, and you know it very well, you heard it from the judges, from the prosecutors, from the people who work. No one has mentioned that these people are better or worse judges or prosecutors at any rate. But it is very important something that colleague Zaharieva said that these people have gained great experience over the past 10 years and are very good in this specialty, and it is good to take advantage of the knowledge and experience they have in this direction. Next, yes, you do not solve the main problems. I told you again, and in the Commission, I repeated it why, with two different arches, you rename the judges. Make it under the Law.. to be regulated for everyone and not unconstitutional so that you do not have problems afterwards. That's it! I didn't say anything more than that. You have the political will, you have the majority, you take it well, but do it right, do it professionally.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you are, Mrs. Kanazireva. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u20	Dear Mr. Gochev, the manipulation is what you do. You suggest that you will almost make the process much fairer with the so-called judicial reform. Let's be honest. The goal is only the cases there, which are of material interest, 3 billion. lv. With this legal framework, you're actually throwing them into nothingness. Stop with this propaganda and suggestion that you're doing something good for the justice system. The results will be taken into account very soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Is there a third line to Dimitar Gochev? I won't. A hole, Mr. Gochev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, on the points you raised about what was said to sink the cases. Whether the cases sink depends on the people who will work on these cases, on the completion of the case files, when it comes to pre-trial proceedings and accordingly sending them to jurisdiction, the relocation of archives and the continuation of cases when they are in a judicial phase. Here we rely entirely on the self-organization of the judicial system, which we think can cope with the tasks that have been set, and the deadlines we are giving are quite sufficient to be able to cope with. On the issue of the contradiction with the Constitution of part of the provisions. In our view, such unconstitutionality does not, and perhaps even has a problem with assuming what would be the decision of the Constitutional Court, but we are sure that there is no unconstitutionality as the provisions are defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. To speak, Miroslav Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues! Indeed, since day one we have been listening to the speculation that if you see cases going down, cases against certain circles, against certain people, and these speculations are mainly stated by the opposition. Although we are at second reading and second reading, we should discuss the specific texts of the Bill, I, in line with the speeches of the other Members, will allow myself a little bit to get out of the framework of what is allowed. I am making this statement to call on my opposition colleagues, who say so strongly that they will actually sink some cases against certain circles. Colleagues, if you'd like to give me a line on what these cases are, so that we can all see if they've actually sunk. And what are these cases of public interest related to organised crime that will slow down and which you claim to want to sink and not have their development? Come to the stand, identify the persons, point out the cases and let us all together, and let us follow the entire public in these cases. Because, as my colleague Gochev said, the continuation of these cases depends entirely on cases and case files, on prosecutors and judges to whom they are distributed, on their good faith and on whether they will put their personal interest above the public interest. So don't put any guilt where it's not there, don't speculate where there's no dose of truth, and don't pass the blame that the lack of professionalism of certain colleagues will be the result of our actions here in the legislative body. Again, I call for you to come out, identify specific cases, identify specific persons so that we can all follow them together, I say again. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Again, I call for you to come out, identify specific cases, identify specific persons so that we can all follow them together again, I say. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Danny Kanazireva for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u26	Dear colleague Ivanov, I will not give you cases, I will do it in the process of the work today during the meeting. I will introduce you to the cases. I promise you, because you obviously don't know what kind of cases you're looking at in the Special Court. I would only say to you that you are a fellow-jurist and you know that when the status of magistrates is not settled, it attracts after itself, reflects on the course of the proceedings. There's no one to deny that. By introducing the quota principle of forced settlement of magistrates, it will very clearly lead to an appeal against the same acts of reassignment, hence the principle of invariably judicial composition will be violated and this will reflect on the cases. Stop this manipulation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u27	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u28	Dear Mr. Ivanov, you challenged me, I didn't want to give you a line, frankly, I'm not picking a fight, really, but you challenged me. During the meeting of the Legal Committee the other day there were lawyers who will not mention their names, whose cases are against such people, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. It's against such people from the oligarchic circles. Lawyers who defended and spoke on behalf of the Justice Department. Do you understand what this is about? These people have taken money from one side to protect some interests, and on the other side are representatives of the Ministry of Justice and present their bill. If this isn't a conflict of interest and pure lobbying, I don't know what is? Please, the way you are doing it and my colleague Kanazirev explained to you the way you structure it is not right. That's where the problems will come from, not that anyone knows specific or unspecific cases. I've explained it to you 100 times. But don't talk. It's pure lobbying! The lawyers they were spoke more than the Justice Department, with all due respect to everyone. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u29	Here you are, Madam Secretary. Colleagues, all I ask is that we don't throw any kind of accusations at anyone outside the Chamber. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, I was at this meeting of the Legal Committee...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u31	And you kept quiet like a log. [[Noise, lines, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u32	Can we just be quiet in the hall?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u33	...except for an hour. I believe that providing interested parties with the opportunity to express their views, either to those affected, freely, calmly in the volume in which they judge, is a matter of good behaviour, of good upbringing and of a culture of political debate. And thank Mr. Mateev for providing it. The Ministry of Justice clearly expressed its position in the Bill and in the reasons. Everyone needs to be heard in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u34	Thank you. The third line is from Krum Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! Dear Mr. Ivanov, since several lines have been addressed to you that you do not understand what you are being told, I would like to make a reply to you with a request in your duplicate to explain some concepts. For example, when you are accused of protecting origarchs, please explain that oligarch means someone who has enriched himself because he is close to power. If an accusation was filed against someone between 2009 and 2012 because he was oligarch, with which authority was he close to benefit? First clarification. The second clarification, when talking about the sinking of cases, when it comes to black holes, in which they will sink and where they will not go and how they will go, please specify that in the Appeals Specialized Court and in the first instance such work 33 magistrates and that these cases will go and be distributed throughout the judiciary. This means that they call these people a black hole or sinking the Bulgarian judiciary in its entirety. Putting a synonym between specialized justice and justice in general is a big mistake. It's actually false, theoretically inaccurate and quite misleading. In fact, this is the proof of what they meant when they created it. Not a specialised, but a parallel judicial system that is constitutionally inadmissible. With regard to the lawyers who did not like in the Chamber and in the Legal Committee what they were saying, these were the representatives of the Supreme Council of Laws, by the way, i.e. institutionally represented.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u36	With a personal opinion...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u37	Can we get out of place?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u38	Ten seconds allow me, Mrs. Alexandrova, don't get upset, the debate will be long enough, you will be able to shout and talk. However, to point out to you that those lawyers who actually appear before this court have made it very clear, as a result of your attacks, that most of the cases there are for tax fraud. Not terrorism. Not about anything else. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] One more thing, I use the case that the Minister of Justice is here to invite her, when she decides, to remind that only a few percent of the cases are essentially. So, please, when you defend so zealously, which is your right to defend...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u39	The weather, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u40	... Your creature, consider the fact that the origarchs were the ones who took advantage of the power while you ruled it. And none of them were convicted by the Special Court. [[Applause from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", and "Democratic Bulgaria".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u41	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! Some suggestions were made that weren't right and didn't respond to the truth. The Commission's meeting was indeed attended by lawmakers, but they explicitly stated that they had no conflict of interest after being asked by the opposition. So this is written in the stenographic protocols.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u43	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u44	On the contrary, colleague Alexandrova, it is true, perhaps you have been outside the Chamber at this time. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u45	Not from where I'm standing!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u46	Secondly, one of these colleagues clearly and categorically stated that he was acting as Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Laws, that is, he expressed the position of the lawyer...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u47	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u48	Could it not be from place again?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u49	...in support of the bill tabled. Let's be objective. Well, whoever doubts what I'm saying has a shorthand protocol, there's a video footage of it that can be verified in person. The status of judges and prosecutors. He's very clear. The judges will remain judges, the prosecutors will remain prosecutors. Last but not least, pre-execution is also envisaged so that cases do not slow down while potential disputes are underway, so there is absolutely no problem here. Both the Ministry of Justice and the Commission, colleagues from the ruling majority, have not once explained this process that delays will not take place. And if there is, they will be, as an opposition colleague has said, because there would be rejections. It was said that the judges would take a reprieve. I'm quoting again. What's natural, colleagues? What's natural? [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] How is that natural? How does someone think six months or six years later that there's some incompatibility and they're gonna recuse themselves? Now that's another speculation. Neither will the cases slow down, nor will there be any new cause for retribution. And I ask again: what are these cases of oligarchic circles that we keep? I keep not getting an answer. I did not receive a reply at a Commission meeting at first reading, at a Commission meeting at second reading, and now who are they? Tell me, when you know this is going to happen and it's a fact? Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u50	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Yavor Bozhankov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate is not at all a debate at second reading on the text of the title. This is absolutely unacceptable. At the moment there is a debate on the substance, and it is characteristic of first reading. Even more colleagues from GERB fell hysterical.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u52	No, no, just no insults.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u53	Mrs. Alexandrova literally scolds us from the stand and from the place. Mr. Chairman, I ask you to impose sanctions, remarks, to put order in the Chamber, because from now on they will obviously continue with this behavior, which is as if they are shutting down their personal company EOOD and not the Specialized Court. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u54	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u55	I don't have a firm, but you do, I think your company's closing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u56	Wait, please, no yelling out of place. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Since we are talking about a culture of political debate, it is also the job of the management to observe order in the plenary and to be equally distant from everyone, please call Vice-President Ivanov, after making political statements, to sit back with the parliamentary group, as has been the practice for tens of years in this Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u58	Colleagues, calm down, please. I'm stating that we're by the title and by § 1 and 2. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, it is, Mr. Petrov. I see you're also telling him. On specific texts, we will also reach them within the debate, there is no point in repeating the arguments afterwards. Let's focus on what we're discussing. Honest Mitev for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, in the manner in which you are being led. Amazing is the emotion and passion with which the opposition defends the position that we should not close a mafia bat. Please, when there are statements from a place in the Chamber, from people shouting, remind them how high an institution the National Assembly is, take attitude and when repeating these acts sanction them, if necessary, even expel them from the Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u60	Thank you. I said a few times, I called for no lines from the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is with you. Thank you for making a comment to colleagues who are speaking from the point of view, but I would also ask you to listen to the things that are said from the point of view. I find it extremely unacceptable from a place in the Chamber in the Bulgarian National Assembly to shout insults to the Bulgarian minister. That's my procedure. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u62	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. I admit that I have not heard this insult, but there must be no such insults either to ministers or to fellow Members of the National Assembly. Here you are, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. Not once have I taken the floor under this procedure, and I'm doing it again. I ask you very much not to allow such qualifications and insults on the part of BSP, in this case the word used that there is almost hysteria across the street or other qualifications that almost someone is protecting their company. Guys, I'm just gonna explain. You don't understand and you don't know in any public sphere what you're doing or what you're going to do. [[Noise and lines.]] This will be like the paper ballots of BSP voted to cancel them, now they will return them. The same thing will happen and now they're going to want to find out tomorrow. Look, fellow Members, throughout the debate, I've tried to follow the expert tone and in no way to cross any line. Therefore, Mr President, I beg you very much not to allow such expressions, phrases, qualifications of colleagues. We defend our own, these are public relations and very serious, with severe consequences for the whole country, I will not call it a judicial reform that we are looking at today, which will affect all of us both as a state and as a society. That is why I ask you to really respect the good tone and more expert to speak, not so politically, because, colleagues, your arguments are only political, neither in the Legal Commission nor here, you have no expert opinion. I'm talking about the status of judges. Colleagues, the status of judges, the outstanding status...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u64	Mrs. Kanazireva...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u65	...brought behind you and the pending cases, which I will present to you today in detail. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u66	Thank you. There's no procedure, okay. For speech "Athanas Slavov," and then Peter Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! The debate at second reading began as a debate at first reading. Obviously, colleagues from GERB are so trying to protect specialized justice that they have not read the reasons of the Bill, they missed three quarters of the discussion at first reading and again, and repeat theirs again. These colleagues are not real, they are not real, because they have nothing to do with the Bill. We must clearly recall why we want this court set up as an inquisitional body, together with the prosecution to be closed. We want it because it was a political tribunal where the uncomfortable politicians, some of them went to that same power later, the inconvenient businessmen, had to be institutionalized there. With the special justice in quotes was restored the inquisitional beginning in Bulgarian justice. That is why these bodies must be shut down. It is the return to the common system of courts with its inherent mind, justice, procedural accuracy that will protect our rights. And I am convinced, colleagues, that everyone in this Chamber and the Bulgarian citizens will breathe more freely after today, because whether a ruling or opposition should not be subjected to an inquisition and this is our commitment, regardless of the status, regardless of the political affiliation. Many things have been said about specialised justice, but let us recall that a significant part of the cases that are being conducted there are: first of all, special-intelligence clearances, second of all, measures for procedural coercion. And notice, colleagues, the procedural coercion exercised within the framework of the special court is much more intense than the procedural coercion exercised in the general courts. Yeah, there was a sinking, but not a lawsuit, there was a sinking of people who for months sat in the custody, and sat in the custody without charges, people who were incubated simply because they weren't comfortable at one point in power. These aren't probably the cleanest people. They're probably not exemplary citizens. But justice is about not allowing a person who has not broken a specific law to be inquired, and so these bodies must finally be shut down. And I believe today that we will fulfil both our civic and political duty when we take precisely the decision to close specialized justice. I believe in the qualities, professionalism and independence of the Bulgarian judges from the common courts. I believe that they will be able to deal with the problems of both organised crime and other serious crime, without the need for special measures, the inquisition procedures that people have been subjected to in the special court. And it's not protecting some oligarchs, some businessmen, no, it's protecting the rights of all of us. This is the commitment that we have made to respect the presumption of innocence, the execution of justice by an independent court within a reasonable period of time. That is the commitment I hope we will make today. Thank you, colleagues. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u68	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Are there any lines to Atanas Slavov? I can't see. Peter Petrov to speak. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u69	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, because lawyers and conflict of interest were mentioned earlier, on the grounds of art. 144 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly declare private interest, because today at 2:00 am I having a meeting in the Special Court, and not that there is any private interest, but I believe that perhaps in this Chamber I am most competent in the subject of administration in the Specialized Criminal Court. Enough comments have been heard on the substance from the first reading on both sides of the Chamber. If I may return the debate to the title, paragraphs 1 and 2. I am making a statement on the proposals for amendments made, which concern the elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council and their cashiership, which is not respected on the grounds of art. Art. 164, Art. 225. With this proposed change, I cannot agree, because, first of all, I can tell you that unlike other authorities, for example, in the executive, even in the prosecution, where there is a pyramid hierarchic structure, in the judicial system, we have cashier judges all over them a body called the Supreme Judicial Council, who deals with the appointment, release, punish them and generally regulate their activities. The term Supreme Judicial Council means that this body is, at least, a prestigious body. For its members, electoral ones, life and health, hopefully this parliament will live to see this thing, lawyers with high professional qualities are elected. Now, if a judge wants to become a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, with these changes you tell him that his internship as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council and the time during which he has dealt, notice, not with gynecology, not with agriculture, but has dealt with fundamental problems of the judiciary and the judges and these changes that are being proposed here. 3 to cancel, sentence two in art. 28, para. 1, you tell them: well your internship will not be regarded as a legal internship under the Law on the Judiciary. And I ask: how will you motivate these lawyers with high moral qualities, including judges, to become members of the Supreme Judicial Council and to wish to deal with the problems of the judiciary if the internship during their term of office you do not recognise it as legal. Again, as long as they are members of the Supreme Judicial Council, they are not engaged in either gynecology or agriculture. They are dealing with legal problems, colleague Dimitrov, dealing with the problems of the judiciary. If your internship, by analogy, as MPs, is not respected by your special laws, is it okay? Don't we have a lot of responsible tasks and activities here?! Then why do we not acknowledge the internship of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council? Another question is what does this have to do with the specialized administration and the closure of the Special Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office. That's the other problem. Yeah, where's the direct link between the two? Perhaps the Supreme Judicial Council controls the Special Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office and the appeals? If that's the case, let me know. Why are we punishing the members of the Supreme Judicial Council when we don't recognize their internship? With one change good. We tell them: when the term is over, they return to the post held before the election of a judge, prosecutor and investigator. So far, so good, but why don't we respect their internship during this term? Therefore, I would ask you to really think about it and not to accept the proposed changes concerning the deletion of sentence two of para. 1 in art. 28 and by § 2 we must not accept the amendment which cancels para. 3, because let someone come out and tell us what the motive is for this thing. I also have a technical proposal, Mr. Chairman, as procedural. Let us, however, read when we are walking paragraph by paragraph, so that both we and the other Members can understand just how we are going with the proposals for amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u70	They were read, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u71	Yeah, just to be thorough.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u72	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to Peter Petrov? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see either. I terminate the discussion on the name of the bill, § 1 and § 2. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the name of the bill, § 1, which is in the version of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, and § 2, which is in the version by importer. We're voting Anblok. Vote 206 MPs: 119, against 80, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Under § 3 a proposal has been received by the Parliamentary Representative Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs to reject § 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u74	And § 4 too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u75	Under § 4, a proposal has been made by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 4 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u76	Okay, maybe five and six. I see there are no proposals on them at all, and there is no editing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u77	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u78	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. I'm opening a discussion on paragraphs 3 through 6. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Catherine Zaharieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There is no way that the debate, as much of the paragraphs in this bill are related precisely to the texts in which the Specialized Court, the Special Court of Appeal and the Special Prosecutors respectively, are not in the direction: what are your objectives, what are you achieving with this purpose, and whether justice and the fight against organised crime and corruption will become better, faster, more effective and fairer with the closure of these specialized courts and prosecutors? I must tell you, Members, that no matter how long the debate continued at first reading in plenary and in the Legal Committee, I have never found an answer to this question. In fact, you have not responded once to us who are against us and to the Bulgarian citizens how this will happen with the closure of these bodies. In our proposals between first and second readings, in order to help you with the claims that they were bats, the Inquisition, we offered you the crimes related to organised crime to remain in these bodies and the fight against corruption to return to the Sofia City Court. No arguments at all in the direction of why this is unacceptable we have not heard from you at all, not one! With regard to organized crime, I can't understand what you're saying. Both in the Legal Commission and here in the Chamber, even a moment ago Mr. Slavov said that these bodies were an inquisition. At the same time, in the Legal Committee, I have repeatedly heard allegations that they were not successful because, you see, a large part of the sentences they gave were up to three years old. Well, are they inquisitions now, or are they not restrictive enough, and they don't give severe enough sentences against the people who are subjected to this inquisition? And, colleagues, it is not true that the specialized court and prosecutors have no success, especially with regard to organised crime. Yeah, like everything that's being created, at first it took time to construct, to appoint judges and prosecutors, to organize competitions, to specialize and to start working and to produce results. The result was confirmed by our partners who monitor Bulgaria under the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism. Just because of the good work on organised crime, this indicator from the... they are six, and related to it, the monitoring on it has been suspended. I heard allegations from the ruling coalition that the creation of these structures was not necessary because there was no organized crime in Bulgaria when they were created. Sorry, guys, but that was absurd. If they didn't, then why would they be watching us? Unfortunately, there was! And fortunately, good results have been achieved over the last 10 years in the fight, detection and condemnation of the criminals who committed it. Is there anything to be desired? In the work there is always the National Assembly there is, and the committees there are, and the Council of Ministers has. Whether these bodies, however, which were created after a long debate, should be closed without evaluation and analysis of their work, I am convinced that they should not. And as my colleagues before me have said, unfortunately, colleagues, very soon you will see the results of this hasty closure without this assessment. And no, colleagues, you don't settle, nor the status of judges and prosecutors well, not to mention how the pending cases will continue. In my opinion, scandalous proposals have been made between first and second readings, obviously lobbyists who are aggravating the text proposed by the Council of Ministers. And unfortunately, they were accepted by all of you and you will be responsible! We will speak in particular when we get to these paragraphs, in the Transitional and Final Provisions. Yeah, we're gonna talk about every paragraph because I'm pretty sure that in terms of organized crime, justice won't get any better when it comes back to county courts. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. For a replica "Yavor Bozhankov."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I cannot agree with the speech of the speaker because the Special Court was closed without analysis. On the contrary, a detailed analysis has been carried out and in the previous assembly our parliamentary group has initiated the relevant procedures, made the relevant hearings, over four and a half hours the hearing continued. They were input reports, we analyzed them. Based on these analyses, we have requested a specific resignation. We have proposed concrete changes. We have confirmed our position that the Special Court must be closed. And just on the basis of the results, we have seen that the great successes are against domestic crime, not that it is not important, but this was mostly taken into account in the committees, and we concluded that there are no effective sentences against organised crime. And here the analysis is very specific and accurate. It is not true that there has been any success. Bulgaria is under monitoring, Bulgaria continues to be one of the most visible countries, precisely because the results are missing. I also cannot agree with the argument that there is a contradiction that we both argue that the Specialized Court has no success and that it is a repressive body. Yes, it is a repressive organ and the mechanism is very clear. The goal is to bring one person into this court, to start CONPI, and you very well know that the CONPI has no relation.. once the prosecution has begun, even if it is dropped, for property can continue. That is, the property of this man can be ruined, his business can be ruined, he can sit, and such examples have dozens, not to say hundreds in the Special Court without trial and sentence for months held inside. This guy's publicly wrapped up in his personal correspondence. The evidence came out, and it took separate passages, separate phrases, separate screenshots of conversations, without the person having the right to defend himself. And since he finally came out innocent or guilty, it doesn't matter. So the organ is essentially repressed. I can give you specific examples of this. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u82	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Zaharieva, you say that the Specialized Court and the Prosecutor's Office were successful. Between July 2020 and December 2020, thousands of Bulgarian citizens were tapped after a request from the Special Prosecutor's Office and with the permission of the Special Court. I'm one of them. More than 15 documents in Bird.bg's documents come up with my name, and not just my name, and other people who participated during the summer protests. This is a huge success of the special prosecutor's office, but against the rights of Bulgarian citizens, because in fact, hundreds of Bulgarian citizens were investigated for an armed coup against your government. I understand why the defenses are now the Special Court and the prosecutor's office is clear to all those who have followed these trials. The question is, what face do you use to protect them? Because for everything that has been done for this is used the term "battery," you said the Inquisition. Yes, hundreds of Bulgarian citizens and protesters were tapped, but no one was arrested because there was never an armed coup. We have civil rights that have given us the opportunity to protest, and people have protested against your government. Because if there was a chance that someone could be picked up, they'd be picked up, and then there'd be an inquisition that the D.A. and the court could do. You said to see the results. We can't see the results if Prosecutor General Geshev didn't resign and in fact no thieves and criminals were released at the 24th hour of their detention and only sat for 24 hours in custody. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u84	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Is there a third line? Wait, Mrs. Zaharieva, I'll be right there. Mr. Ivanov for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, Mrs. Zaharieva, I do not fully agree with what you have said, and I will concentrate specifically on the statement that the specialized bodies have good results. Well, if we remember the Commission meeting that day, which Mr. Geshev attended, even he himself, your founder of legality said, quote: "E, perhaps the results of corruption are not good enough!" So it is no secret to the whole public that there are no results against corruption and especially for high-level corruption. I called on you at first reading to say what are the great successes of the specialized bodies in the fight against corruption. What are the signs that have ended and ended in judgment? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Who? It is a public secret and not only a public secret, but every year the European institutions tell us that we do not have good results in the fight against corruption, and this is an obligation of specialised justice. And here you explain how specialized justice has good results. I can't agree to that! I can't agree to that! Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u86	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Now you have the floor for the coat, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a procedure for you. Please, Mr. Chairman, first of all, is my procedure regarding the reply of Mr. Ananiev. He called it thieves and criminals, and I quote it, our colleagues who have been detained for 24 hours in violation of the Bulgarian laws. I'm asking you to respond and interrupt the MPs who are insulting you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u88	One moment, Mrs. Zaharieva. Since we wrote that this is a procedure, let me answer, as it was in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u89	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u90	To respond, I was not under the impression that it was aimed at specific people, so I did not react. If anyone recognized themselves, I'm sorry, I'll keep that in mind. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] No, don't clap, I'm serious, I'm not making any suggestions. Please really keep the good tone in the discussion... it is serious enough. Now you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with Mr. Nastimir Ananiev. Mr. Ananiev, watch the debate carefully. I was quoting Mr. Slavov, who called these organs an Inquisition, and I didn't call them. When you take a line, it's nice to keep an eye on the debate to be in the room and follow it. And yes, there is a contradiction, Mr. Ananiev. On the one hand, they're an inquisition, on the other hand, they don't have enough, as they say, high sentences. That's what you said: high enough sentences! Regarding the wiretap, Mr. Ananiev, it's already become funny. A moment ago, it seems that you were not in the Chamber again, the Minister of Justice, by the way, not in substance, replicated some of our colleagues, I think it was Mrs. Alexandrova, and said that the Bureau had found five cases improperly requested. Isn't that right? Five. At the same time, you keep talking about thousands. First, you said thousands, then you corrected yourself and you said hundreds. The control bureau came up with a report that you colleagues didn't accept because you didn't like the truth in it, which said, I think there were two cases. Isn't that right? Two cases of illegal wiretap, and you continue to lie to the Bulgarian citizens that there were hundreds, thousands and I do not know how many cases of illegal wiretap that have happened with the assistance of the authorities. Please stop. When you do something, at least think of some more adequate arguments "the authorities in Bulgaria, including the Minister of Justice." At least five to quote correctly, but they're not hundreds and thousands! At least five is very far from hundreds and thousands of cases of illegal drying. In the Bureau report there were two mentioned, which, again I say, you did not accept because you broke the lies you spoke for months, not to tell the Bulgarian citizens years. However, you are no longer many times told in an election campaign, but you already manage and you have all the organs, and all the control mechanisms. Where are they? Set up these illegal cases, prove them. You are ruling, and we are not opposition. Stop lying and fooling! Stop it! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. You're welcome for a personal explanation, Mr. Ananiev, because Mrs. Zaharieva mentioned it after all. And then, Alexander Nenkov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u93	She mentioned me in a procedure. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't understand why Mrs. Zaharieva...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u94	Yeah, it's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u95	...recognized his colleagues from GERB after thieves and criminals. [[Noise and lines.]] Maybe...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u96	Mr. Ananiev, that's what we discussed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u97	...should give this explanation to them why she recognized them, but I made it very clear in my speech...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u98	Tell me, what was your offense, Mr. Ananiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u99	I'm hurting myself. Yeah, I'll tell you what I'm offended about. I was actually offended by the allegations of a legitimate wiretap. Mrs. Zaharieva forgets a man named Ilko Zhelyazkov, who is the vice president of this desk, which you so quote, who makes Mr. Peevski's company on the list - Magnitski - and who has actually examined all the requests of people who wanted to check whether they have been illegally tapped. So, I at this desk and his reports don't believe it. There's no way hundreds of people could have been tapped for an armed coup against your government and that was legal?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. You first, Mrs. Kanazireva, because I also announced Mr. Nenkov, but you two understand each other. [[Heckling]] Procedure? Please come in for a procedure. Mr. Gazhev for procedure, then Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will follow the procedure explicitly. I'm not gonna get involved in the debate. When there's a statement, there's replicating. It is quite normal in the back of a person to turn to the replicators they make a reply to him. To give a personal explanation to a person who has made a line that is answered in the back, and you are giving him a personal explanation, then by that logic you should now give the floor for a personal explanation to Mrs. Zaharieva of the procedure of Mr. Ananiev because otherwise it is a little ridiculous. In principle, for a personal explanation, for being affected in the back of a replica made by Mr. Ananiev, or by any MP, not to refer to him specifically, is a bit inappropriate and is not by the rules. Isn't that the logic of the duplicater to turn to the replicators? It's not logical to give such procedures. So at least give Mrs. Zaharieva the opportunity to respond, as the debate is actually going in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u102	Mr. Gadget, you're forcing me... Now you want me to break the rules again because I've already broken it. [[Heckling]] The point is, I have warned before that I am giving a personal explanation to any statement from the stands. This is not specified in the Rules, but when the person feels affected. The threshold of tolerance of each Member of the National Assembly is different. Some are affected by few, others by many. So whenever I want to, I give. If Mrs. Zaharieva felt affected, I could still give her a personal explanation of the personal explanation. I suggest we don't get into these procedural disputes. I appeal to the Members of the National Assembly, it is difficult enough today's debate to concentrate more on the content and let us not use different procedural techniques to break the tone and discussion. [[Heckling]] For a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, Mr President, a procedure in the manner of conduct, and it is with the request that you interrupt speeches that are outside the paragraphs under consideration and discussed, because otherwise Members of the National Assembly go beyond the scope of the bill under consideration, and this is not for the benefit of either the draft or the work in plenary. Why would I say that? Member of the National Assembly, commenting on the paragraphs we are discussing at the moment, also told us about the list. If you were to allow this, and you allowed it, then the debate should continue further on for others who appear on the list - such as Mr. Bozhkov, who was not only remotely involved in the protests with the words: "We will put a figurer as chief prosecutor, such as the President, and other such: "Tulpa is well managed, and so on. These are quotes that came out in the media space, and for example the partner of the PR of "We are continuing the Change" which Mrs. is also on the list "Magnitski". The debate will be too long and different, Mr. Chairman, if we mention all the persons involved and mentioned by...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u104	Let's stop with that list.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u105	... The State Department on the list of Magnetski. Therefore, I ask you, in any case, that such a diversion from the subject under discussion take away the floor of the Members of the National Assembly who abuse...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u106	Yes, and you've completed the list of this procedure. But I hope, fellow Members, that we can really concentrate on the paragraphs under discussion. Please. Come on in now, Mr. Nenkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am thinking of focusing precisely on the paragraphs in question and, in particular, on the closure of specialised justice. Colleagues, I want to make one thing clear, I think it has become clear at the first vote on this bill. You're not reforming! What are you doing? You're fighting a war! Until now, by the ruling majority, what I agree with was one sentence of my colleague Slavov, who said: "After today, some people will breathe more freely. [[Heckling]] I want you to know one thing: whether or not there will be specialized justice is, of course, the will of the National Assembly, but let us also remember something else - why were these courts and prosecutors created? Were the law enforcement people pleased? No, they weren't. Were there any high successes in the fight against corruption, organised crime, which is why these specialized courts and prosecutors were created? No, you wouldn't. This is precisely why Bulgaria has been under monitoring for many years precisely because it cannot cope with some of these tasks. But, guys, that doesn't mean that when you close one thing down, it's gonna get better. You're practically returning what was before. I hear here in your speeches and in the media in the morning, how you hope it will happen better. But with hopes, it can't happen. You need to know what's bad. The bad news is that many of you will not be in this room, when what you are doing today will actually be effective and there is no one to look to for this responsibility. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I understand that you've made some kind of commitment to some people and you're doing this to yourself, but society needs to be clear. When we want to achieve some results, it is important to know one thing in a war between institutions that is not going to happen. The fight against corruption cannot happen in the environment in which we are currently in the middle of a war between the prosecutor's office, between executive power, courts and any authorities that have a direct bearing on the fight against both organised crime and corruption. You say that specialized law enforcement is not effective. It has become an Inquisition, a bat and some other such epithets. Well, the Ministry of Interior has now become a bat. Come on, let's shut down the Ministry of Interior, then?! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Is that the logic? I want to tell you one last thing and I'm done. The time will come when society will rise and ask: where are your results? If there is, if there is no specialized justice, in this case it doesn't matter at the moment you're just fighting a war with a guild. Whether the prosecutors and judges are in a special court or not, we have these people and we have to respect them. Are they perfect? They're not. Is Parliament Perfect? No, it's not, but this interinstitutional war is leading to zero results, and you have to remember it, and today the public needs to understand it. It is very sad that you elementaryize the debate, because it is the truth you do not reform. If you had to reform, first of all, you had to start with amendments to the Constitution that was the application. However, as far as I understand it, the Commission has not gathered once to vote on at least some rules of work at least this. That's where you start from the big picture down, not from the bottom up, because you've just made a commitment to some people who, again, I quote, will breathe more freely. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u108	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. First line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Nenkov, and you observe the tone your colleagues set, to speak more like at first reading. There was not a single specific statement on the texts and paragraphs that we are discussing at the moment, so my line will also be in that direction. You are once again making some suggestions for which absolutely no facts are mentioned. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Well, tell me, who's gonna breathe more calmly? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Tell me, who are these persons to whom we have made commitments? Come on, take it by name. Let's not make suggestions! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Please, guys! Mrs. Atanasova, Mrs. Alexandrova, you're replicating me from the spot. Let me finish my line. I never let myself interrupt you like this. So, Mr. Nenkov, please state who these persons are that we serve. Let's not make suggestions again. Essentially about the quality of justice. The quality of justice does not depend on the National Assembly, does not depend on legislative decisions. We define the frame. The quality of the administration depends on the magistrates only and only on them. To date, criminal justice largely depends on Mr. Geshev, whom you so zealously guard. And, yes, there are no good results, it does not even have results, precisely because of the presence of Mr. Geshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u110	He doesn't do justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u111	Mrs. Atanasova, I'll explain what I mean and you know it. Yeah, in order to get to a lawsuit, there's got to be an indictment, there's gotta be an indictment filed, and that's controlled by the Attorney General. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] What? That's right. He didn't get you off, but he did.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u112	Don't engage in dialogue with colleagues from GERB. They provoke you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u113	And in the finals. When a body does not meet the expectations for which it is created, it is absolutely right to close it. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u114	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I'll give Mr. Slavov a first line because he was more affected, and he's right. He's prepared to get to the stands faster.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the phrase I made in my speech has already been speculatively used, I will repeat again what I said to all Bulgarian citizens, whether they are ruling or opposition, will breathe more freely when there is no inquisition in the face of specialized justice. But I will give you an example, colleagues from GERB, and with a member of your parliamentary group, even vice-president already of GERB, Mr. Daniel Mitov, whom I respect very much, I say without irony, I really respect, and we have worked together. I hope we can keep working together. He was charged with a falsifying charge of delivering some airline tickets. Indictment of the Special Prosecutor's Office, which the Special Court, thank God, said was an uncompromising act. So imagine what kind of repression we're talking about? What is happening to the authority of a man who is a former minister, an international figure known to whom he is being charged in an uncompromising way only to be repressed because he stands up for a Euro-Atlantic position? Or another minister in your second government, Mr. Nenchev, for the MiG contracts with Poland he had signed. He was indicted by the Special Prosecutor's Office, which until then was still protecting Russian interests, now he has recently begun to notice Russian spies. What did it turn out to be? Mr. Nenchev was acquitted because there was no composition of the deed. We are talking about these forms of repression, and that is why specialized justice must be closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u116	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Gochev, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Nenkov, we are listening to roughly the same ones from the beginning of the debates on this issue, and one of those that you have now expressed for the first time today was a war that we are hardly fighting a war against professionals in the Specialized Criminal Court and the Specialized Prosecution. I will not tire of saying that this is not true and that we are not doing something that somehow puts these professionals in a worse position or in a worse situation. There is no war against the professionals in the Bulgarian judiciary and if there is, it would never be fought by us. Something else you said, Mr. Nenkov, that when it happens, so to speak, the bad consequences, the apocalyptic consequences that you are talking about, we will not be here. There are elections in four years, and then we'll see what the results of our actions are. [[Noise and lines.]] Finally, for being committed to someone. Yes, it is a fact, we made a commitment to 600,000 people who voted for us because they believed that we made a real commitment to closing specialized justice. You said there would be people in Bulgaria who would breathe peacefully. Yes, these will be our voters "the Bulgarian citizens who rely on us to do what we will finish today." Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u118	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. Mr. Nenkov has the floor for the doppelganger. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, you've been excited about these four years. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues, what citizens? Whose cases are in the Special Court and the D.A.'s office? To ordinary Bulgarian citizens, is that it, colleague? Someone who stole a chicken or a TV? No, they're not. No, they're not! And I don't mean anyone in particular. I don't mean anyone in particular! But there are heavy cases related to corruption and organized crime, and there are not ordinary Bulgarian citizens. It is no coincidence in the last study, which came out a few weeks ago, very few people are excited about the topic in which you have fixed yourself, namely the figure of Mr. Geshev. I'm not defending Mr. Geshev, and I don't know him. But that's not the point. I told you something else. This war, because it's war, you want results supposedly. But how will there be results, given that you hardly put all the blame into the prosecution for not having an effective fight against corruption or organised crime. But who's collecting, mate, the evidence? Who? Is it the D.A.'s office or the services under your authority? If there is no good synchronization between these two institutions and the court as the last instance, nothing will happen. There will be no feeling in citizens that someone is doing something about corruption or organised crime. That's what you're doing. That's why I said, "You've made a commitment, you're doing it." It's not your fault in particular. You're just doing someone else's will. That's what's sad. And it's not about any reform at all. The reform is done when you gather a court, prosecution, investigation, executive power, the Ministry of Interior, services, and to do so................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Okay, close down specialized justice, but do something to make it more effective without having these two organs. That's what you don't do. That's not what you're doing! In general, people, especially in this situation, with these prices, with this inflation, with all the crises that are hanging over the country, do you think they are so interested in this topic right now? No, they don't care. I don't believe they care about this subject. Because specialized justice, I say again, there are no ordinary ho-ra cases. You know very well whose deeds, and because of that they really, agree again, will breathe freer. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u120	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Just to say that so far Dani Kanazireva, Alexander Ivanov and Anna Alexandrova have signed up for these paragraphs. I'm also recording Mrs. Atanasova. Here you are, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u121	My fellow Members, I have been trying to make a chronology of all the untenable statements from the ruling majority, which we have witnessed, because clearly there will be no expert speeches. Everything will be hollow phrases and purely political arguments, starting from the fact that a court was a political bat, and another court is not. [[Heckling]] Take it easy, not from a place, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u122	Now let me recall Mrs. Atanasova's call to speak on the paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u123	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u125	Here we go. These paragraphs are for the closure of the Special Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u126	I'm reminiscing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u127	First of all, about whether this is reform. Gentlemen ruling, reforming, means regulating public relations so that they are better regulated for society. There's no such thing as this. An old arrangement comes back and nothing is improved either in material or in procedural law. BSP several times pointed out that it had no effect and this regime would now be better. I ask: as the high-level corruption cases by 2018 were in the Sofia City Court, to which you now want to return them again, what were the results by 2018 that you were returning this model again? Several times Mr. Ivanov mentioned: "Give results! " Mr. Ivanov, I'll tell you, I still wanted them to give me an analysis that you never provided. Since the establishment of the Specialized Court, the overall charges or indictments and sentences have been filed are 2637, the convicted are 2232 and the justified are 405. By 2011 there were only 829 for the same period. Regarding the European institutions mentioned by you several times, how they criticised them. Mr. Ivanov, you should read back the reports and see how they progress in the years. During the management of BSP 2007 In general, progress in the judicial treatment of high-level corruption cases in Bulgaria is needed. Report 2008 The problems of Bulgaria in the fight against corruption and organised crime arise as a result of shortcomings in the judiciary. The Bulgarian Penal Code is outdated and leads to overload of the judicial authorities. The roles and responsibilities of police, special services, investigation and prosecution are not well defined. European Commission report 2009 There has been progress in the uniform application of law and in identified and follow-up actions in delaying important criminal cases. At the same time, these successes should be assessed in the context of the everyday reality in Bulgaria, where murders related to organised crime continue to take place and known criminals remain at large. Gentlemen in charge, you are returning this ineffective regime from before 2010. You are spreading organised crime at regional level where, let's be honest, there exist between the leaders or the tyrants of these groups established permanent positions in the local socioma, and the cases of corruption on the high levels of power you are transferring them again to the Sofia City Court where they were until 2018. Nothing new, not a single changed norm for a faster and fairer process. Let's be honest, the purpose of this whole exercise, because I still respect among you people professionals who know and know the legal framework, you can't convince me of the naivety that you're actually exhibiting. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You do not regulate the legal status of magistrates because, gentlemen ruling, the purpose of this pseudo-reform is some cases of material interest 3 billion. lv. to start over, not to have real sentences, to run out of statute of limitations.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u128	The weather, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u129	That's the point. The aim is not better to happen in the judiciary in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u131	It's propaganda that you're conducting...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u132	One minute already, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u133	...and the results will soon be seen by all of us.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u134	Thank you. Are there any lines? Mr. Mitev first this time, we will ignore Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The truth is that special justice is ineffective and this can be proved very easily even by the European Commission's 2021 Report, which clearly states that there is no confidence in what is currently happening in the Bulgarian justice system, that there is no progress in key cases and that there is outright corruption. Other statistics between 2010 and 2015 640 cases for organized crime, 18% with a conviction, 30% agreements and nearly 50% terminated, twice the burden of prosecutors of the Special Prosecutor's Office compared to the national average and so on and so forth. The real reason for closure is inefficiencies. I'd like to take stock of something else that was said earlier. There's a war going on, but this war isn't about professionals. This war is about the rule of law, it's a war about justice, and I'm going to make two quotes. They may even be a little out of context, but I will. The Specialist said soon: "And to shut us down, the mob will welcome us with joy. " Someone said from this tribune another: "Don't touch organized crime, it'll be chaos!" There is a war, colleagues, but you are on the other side of the barricade, not the one of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u136	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. I give the floor to Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is difficult to have a legal debate when there are no legal arguments here, they are only political arguments. For us it is not a problem for any statement to answer you with political arguments, but we are wasting the time of the House, we are wasting the time of the National Assembly and ultimately of the Bulgarian people, because these arguments are also relevant to the debate. However, at your political speech, I will answer you politically because we are already thinking about what these cases are. Say it! You've been talking about $3 billion since morning, and since you're not telling who these 3 billion are, who are these cases? Tell them who they are and what's your motive? So some people are in the Special Court and you want a share of that 3 billion? [[(Laughter) Claps by "Keep On Changing.")]] You want some money from that $3 billion? Or what? What's the motive? I don't understand because we've been hearing about billions of dollars since this morning?! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] It's in your head, it's in yours. Where is the legal argument in this 3 billion? Go out and tell who they belong to and what do you want from them? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u138	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. [[Relations from the National Representative Danny Kanazireva. The MP gets up and goes to the stands.]] Wait, wait, wait, wait.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u139	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u140	No, I won't. Now, calm down, third line, then you have the right to the back. First things first. Here you are, Mr. Kyosev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Correct me, if I'm not mistaken, are we discussing paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u142	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u143	Paragraphs 3 and 4 refer to committees on attestations and attestations. Paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Inspectorate. I didn't hear a single statement on the ground. So, when we talk about deletion... Yeah, just to say that in 80% of the bill it says, "They're erasing and canceling." Yeah, any line could be about why we're shutting down the Special Court. This was absolutely and detailedly debated in the first reading of the Law and, as you said and appealed for expert discussion of the debate, and as Mr. Nenkov previously said, the public is obviously not interested in this topic, let us comment on things at second reading, as is the order. So in that order of thought, please, the paragraphs we are discussing right now have nothing to do with what you said, which you will repeat, which we will be repeating all day clearly. So, please, let's stick to the protocol, to the Rules, and let's go to second reading, as requested. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u144	Thank you, Mr. Kyosev. Once again, I join this call. Now, Mrs. Kanazireva has the word for the doppelganger. This time I'll be strict in time, you know.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u145	I apologize. Mr. Bojankov, extremely frivolous, extremely frivolous! [[Relations from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov.]] Well, Mr. Bojankov, since you are ruling and you are closing a court, you are still ruling, you should have done the work I did. [[PEOPLE: Still!]] I asked the Specialized Court to give me all the cases at the moment with factual and legal complexity that are pending, to give me props, forbade and everything that is imposed by the court, and what material interest is at the moment and since you have not done this work, but rely on clichés and common hollow phrases, I tell you: the material interest in the cases in this court is 3 billion. lv. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Regarding the cases that you seem to be very interested in, if you had gone to court, no one would have refused you and you would have met them. And now, Mr. President, I am entitled to every single paragraph to speak, I do not want the paragraphs to be united, and since the rulers, who should know absolutely everything, but it turns out that they are not prepared, I am not surprised, I will inform them of the cases which are pending at this time of the Specialized Court. Here we go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u146	You have one more minute, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u147	I have many paragraphs. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Everyone...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u148	Three paragraphs, 15 minutes!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u149	You have one...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u150	Every single paragraph I have the right to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u151	No, there's no such thing. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u152	...a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u153	The discussion is summarised. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u154	It's three paragraphs!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u155	The hole is three minutes, colleagues, please don't yell at me from the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u156	Okay, okay, the cases... Okay, Mr. Bojankov, I'll introduce you to the cases...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u157	The hole is three minutes, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u158	It's three paragraphs!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u159	...to the end of the session.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u160	As long as it takes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u161	We are continuing the Change. Colleague, last time I said to you, "I've gone back to my troubles and asked for references, and you could have done it." The cases of general nature in all courts are not only in this specialized criminal court, in the first place, the most cases are in the Sofia City Court. Secondly, they are in the Plovdiv District Court and with only a few cases are in the Specialized Criminal Court. All individual over 25 other district courts are in times with fewer cases. Apart from that, the agreements, which are still a solution, recognised in our process and material law, a method for solving cases, the most agreements are concluded at the Sofia City Court, then the most are in Plovdiv, then are in Varna and only then are in the Specialized Criminal Court. [[the President signals that time has run out]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u163	Not to mention that the number of posts of judges is also the highest 23,88 is precisely in the Specialized Criminal Court, in the Sofia City Court this ratio is 10.6 and if I tell you that there are courts with 3%. In this reform...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. It's four minutes now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u165	...you should have paid attention to much more important and substantial problems in the judiciary, which would have really unblocked the justice process, starting with formalism, going to the workload...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u166	Thank you. You can't spend all day...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u167	...of judges and contests. I'm sorry. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u168	Yeah, there's just other options for speaking. [[National Representative Miroslav Ivanov wants the floor.]] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, [[People's representative Petar Kullenski wants the floor.]] For procedure, Mr. Ivanov first, then... Let's hear his procedure, because it might be the same, and then I'll give Mr. Ivanov the floor. Here you go. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u169	Mrs. Atanasova, there's room in the stands, I can't hold a meeting, read the Rules, please. Read the Rules of Procedure all colleagues from GERB who are speaking. Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you and I remind you of several texts that colleagues from GERB may hear: art. 51, para. 1: When a Member of the National Assembly departs from the issue under discussion, the President warns him and if the infringement continues or repeats, he takes the floor away. Art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 2: The President of the National Assembly shall take away the floor....................................................................................................... OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 2 says: "The President takes away the floor of a Member of Parliament who, after speaking time, continues his statement despite the invitation of the President to terminate it. " Art. 158, p. 1: The Member may remove from one sitting a Member of the National Assembly, who............................................................................................... 2:?...for a long time does not allow for normal work in plenary................................................................................... Mr. Chairman, I appeal to you, please impose sanctions, as provided for in their order, and when the people's representative clearly seeks to abuse the time given to him and violates the work of the National Assembly, he should be removed from the Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u170	You're right, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Kulenski. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u171	That remains to remove the opposition from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u172	Well, follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u173	Mrs. Alexandrova, you're a little nervous today. [[Replication by National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]] You've been calling from a place for half an hour, please, you're really going to force me to impose a remark. Let's take it easy, though. Here you go, Mr. Kullensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u174	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. I would ask you to return the debate essentially to what should be at the second reading. We've been hearing about $3 billion all the time. lv. material interest, and I am already beginning to wonder, are we shutting down the Specialized Criminal Court where criminal cases are being dealt with, or are we shutting down some civil courts where civil and commercial matters are being dealt with? So please return the debate to his expertise as it should be at second reading. Thank you. [[Applause from.. We continue the Change.............................................. Replies from GERB-SDS.]] Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Now let's calm the debate down a little bit. [[Relations from the National Representative Danny Kanazireva.]] Don't worry, Mrs. Kanazireva, everything will be clear within today's debate, there are lots of discussions, lots of time. [[Heckling]] Now I give the floor to Mr. Ivanov and after him are Anna Alexandrova, Desislava Atanasova and Petar Nikolov. [[Relations from the National Representative Danny Kanazireva.]] Others haven't signed up yet. Mrs. Kanazireva, I think we need to calm the tone of the room a little bit, because it's gonna make the whole room nervous in a minute. Are we ready to move on? Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, and please really stick to the relevant paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today, we are at a debate on second reading, naturally, on a founding element of perhaps the governing opposition..................... the specialized court and prosecutor's office. While the ruling coalition, before I allowed a lapsus opposition, excuse me for which it intends to change the functioning of the justice system in Bulgaria, we see one run out so far, without proposals in amendments to the Constitution, with the closure of some functioning structures, such as the Specialized Court and the Prosecutor's Office. We have respectively our reservations and unfortunately, the majority of the government, who are not currently in the Chamber, may have neglected to hear a nice speech about me, which I share with Mr. Nenkov. By fighting a war, so to speak, against the structure of the Specialized Court and Prosecutor's Office, no substantial reform is being made, more legal emptiness is being created in the justice system of Bulgaria - other courts will be burdened, some flagrant cases against organised crime, against corruption, against human trafficking, too, against terrorism, will be terminated due to the expiry of the statute of limitations and/or a total start-up, which, agree, is not good because the law will remain law will not be applied to these charges. Colleagues, the principle that you have made with your speeches so far: let's close it down, and then we'll see what happens. It is also the principle in the formation of your coalition, which manages the state at the moment "GERB" not being in power, and then we will see what happens. It's the same principle. What people will expect to see will get the same result. The strange thing is that you apply the same things to get a different result. That's not gonna happen. One year it is seen that GERB is not in the government, you can see the amazing result: the treasury has been exhausted, emptied lv. The fiscal reserve, at 12 billion a year ago. Also the price of electricity: five times more expensive one year later. It seems that your frustration, which is to manage infrastructure projects, is the same, only that you are doing it now with the judiciary and we are putting our arguments out, why shouldn't you? And Mr. Nenkov said it very nicely. I say again that I regret that the government is not in the Chamber to listen to the opposition's arguments. Maybe a little drop by drop you can make more sensible decisions in the future. Looks like you already took this today. You'll shut down the Special Court, you'll shut down the Special Prosecutor's Office. We are telling them why we believe that this is not the right way to do it at this time, and that 3 billion. BGN, colleagues know very well what this is about. You also have a legal culture, I dare say, perhaps quite serious, but you come out of the stands and say you don't understand what this is about. You know exactly what this is about. This is a material interest of the state, of course, these are collaterals which, by disappearing, the State will not receive these funds if there is justice as expected. Of course, until the finals are pronounced, we can't tell whether there are guilty or innocent. But, colleagues, the war between the institutions will not end here. What you have done in recent years, society has lost confidence in institutions such as Parliament, such as the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Interior, whether a court, whether the prosecution, as you skillfully do for several years. However, he began to see here an interest of serious players, who found themselves skillfully controlling the crowd over the phone during some protests. [[Noise and lines: come on!]] There's no enough, colleagues, there's no enough. When we speak truths from the stand, there is no reach. Were there any people calling members of your parliamentary group who were accused?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u176	On the subject, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u177	There was! Let's tell each other these things. Why are you ashamed?! Now you want to close down this court that seeks the justice of these persons. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If you pretend this is an accident, it's a little funny already, it's worn out. The Minister of Justice is here. If there is a reform of justice, I think the right approach was changes in the Constitution. This will not be a small victory, it will be, unfortunately, you will dig a deep trench in which all these cases will fall with this material interest. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] As I said, in order to justify something to do to your constituents, although all Bulgarian citizens are our voters, you will harm the administration of justice in Bulgaria. That's why I'd love someone to give me a line and give me another three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u178	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. There are requests to give you an additional three minutes. Colleagues, I ask you to focus on specific texts. We're at the second vote, after all. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] First the lines, Mr. Chenchev. We start with Ivan Dimitrov. Danny Kanazireva gave up the line. [[Reply by MP Danny Kanazireva.]] No, you were first, then it was him. Here you are, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u179	Mr. Ivanov, I'm making a line because I don't agree with you that they don't know what they're doing. They know exactly what they're doing. And what they do is far from public interest. All this is presented in some beautiful words how, you see, we will improve the judiciary, but it has nothing to do with what is actually going to happen. What they do is interesting cases to take to the Sofia City Court. They're making a kind of new specialized court in the Sofia City Court, replacing, redecorating... [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] Colleagues, read the Bill, it's not difficult! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] They recreate the prosecution, send the cases of high-level corruption to the Sofia City Court, on Chapter 1 of the NK also there, the cases of the European Prosecutor's Office's jurisdiction are also sent to the Sofia City Court, the assets and liabilities are taken over by the Sofia City Court and the Court of Appeal. However, Mr. Ivanov, do not want the judges of the Special Court and impose completely in violation of the Constitution quota principle, which will be repealed and declared in violation of the Constitution. Why are they doing this thing? [[Noise and lines.]] I beg you very much, have the respect, because your Cyril Petkov, one meaningful sentence cannot say... [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u180	Oh, please, no qualifications, Mrs. Kanazireva...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u181	Mr. Ivanov, why don't they want the magistrates? [[Replyes: "Search, weather!"]] Because they want to replace these magistrates. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If magistrates are replaced because of violations of the principle of inalienability in cases, cases start over, limitation periods end or begin with other judges.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u182	The weather, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u183	That's the whole truth. I'm sure you realize very well. I saw in the Legal Committee that you have many valuable consultants. And I'm sure you know what you're really doing, and it's not reform! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u184	Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I have taken the floor for a reply because once again I would like to clarify that we are not discussing judicial reform, we are discussing the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. Reforming justice is a concept, and this concept is a number of steps that should be taken, with the first and foremost step being to abolish specialised justice. With regard to the limitations you use for the expiry of the limitation period and so on, once again, I would like to remind you that the limitation period for this type of crime is in the order of tens of years. If one or two years threaten the expiry of the limitation period, this means that in this court no one has worked for ten years in these cases, that is to say the problem will not be the current closing of the courts, but the inaction of these judges - a large part of them who carry out orders to keep the places that delayed those cases. With regard to the fact that there were three billion material interests, criminal justice protects quite other public interests. There is no material interest in criminal law. The collateral is not a material interest. And for your information, the collateral is not cancelled by closing the courts. Read, Mrs. Kanazireva, it's not difficult! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] You don't cancel these collaterals, they stay. And that way, there's no interest in anyone. Please, colleagues, let us return to the Law on the Judiciary and the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary. With regard to the reform we in the coalition will do it and we will do it well in spite of you. With regard to relations in our coalition, they are not your headache, they are our problem, which we will solve democratically through debates. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u186	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The third line is from Miroslav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! Mr. Ivanov, I respect you as a fellow Member of the National Assembly, because you have always tried to keep a good voice. I, too, will try to keep the good tone, and in the course of the entire sitting I will not allow myself to shout from the place, to interrupt speaking as your colleagues have, unfortunately, been doing since the beginning of today's plenary day. Regarding your speech, colleague Ivanov, I think that you have not read, with all due respect, the submitted bill and your statement proves it. The paragraphs that were discussed, your speech had nothing to do with them. And not only that, your speech was entirely political, it did not at any time enter into the specifics of the bill itself. I am almost convinced, as my colleague Dimitrov said before me that you do not know exactly what the collateral that Mrs. Kanazireva is talking about, and you do not know what will happen to them in order to close the Court. So, fellow Members, let us speak when we are prepared, and let us speak expertly, because we are currently at second reading, and most of the opposition's speeches are purely political and contain nothing expert in content and come out of the meaning of the second reading of the Law. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u188	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, fellow replicators! To Mr. Ivanov, it is difficult for me to comment, I am very well aware of which paragraphs I have commented. Naturally, my entire statement also covers the so-called judicial reform, which Mr. Dimitrov, who, by the way, was nice because I know he is a lawyer and a lawyer, if there are criminal cases in the Special Court, to state it from the stand next time he speaks on closing. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Dimitrov.]] Yes, thank you. So it confirms, maybe it does. It's nice next time to specify it for our colleagues and our listeners. Mr. Dimitrov, it is even worse that you have confirmed that you have no overall concept. In today's parliamentary day, we are making amendments to the Law on the Judiciary without a whole concept. There's chaotic motion, lights on here, lights on there. Colleagues, this is disturbing. The Justice Minister is here. Perhaps it was nice to clarify such a concept, to introduce society to it, and then to follow it consistently and to stick to it. Because it seems a bit like we're shutting down the Criminal Court, the D.A., because we're in the way. And as your Prime Minister says, let's put the right people. It's disturbing! At the very least, you will allow me as a member of the largest parliamentary party to express my doubts and your intentions with the arguments you make. Three billion whether it's collateral or money that's going to be lost is three billion. This is a lot of money, unfortunately, see some interests, because also Mrs. Kanazireva, as she said, valuable consultants were there for the Legal Commission, apparently these valuable consultants have given advice to colleagues from Yes, Mrs. Kanazireva, with three billion interests many valuable consultants can be hired, given the sanity of judicial reform, which, forgive me, Mr. Dimitrov, as you said, does not know it, there is no such concept, and today we are simply closing a part of justice in Bulgaria and we remain at odds once again what I have said, some court cases, which, however conveniently missed, are not just about fighting corruption, which examines this Specialized Court and prosecution, they consider terrorism, child trafficking, human trafficking, to fight organised crime. And as we have heard from the Report, there is a much better success in examining, resolving cases than many other courts, but I do not hear any of them being proposed or perhaps still being closed. Perhaps in the future reform that will offer us the ruling coalition to shut down others. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Ivanov, with all due respect, we are in the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria. This is political, so to speak, a tribune and sometimes I allow myself to make political speeches. I hope you won't interrupt me another time, if I do that, at least keep a good tone. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u190	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For speech is now recorded Anna Alexandrova, but first, the procedure. Here you are, Mr. Chenchev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Any arrangements are made here all the time. Can you do that? We can do anything by the book. For this reason, I would like to tell you two things, Mr. Chairman. First, the last four speeches by GERB-SDS group have four minutes of time exceeded. I can't understand whether there are new mentors in the National Assembly who allow themselves to violate procedures and rules and hypocritically call for them? Make a remark to them, since yesterday, Mr. Chairman, you were only praying. From this place where you are now, you said: "Please, fellow Members, sit down, do not replicate..................... there will be no rules. Whoever breaks it from here on out, let him have his consequences, whatever his name is. There is no more MP or less MP, all are the same MPs. As we have heard the same arguments in these debates so far, I propose that the debate on this point be suspended. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u192	Anna Alexandrova for feedback.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! I am making a reverse proposal to continue the debates on the reported paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6 and at the same time allow myself to take account of the procedure that I wanted to take so that I do not take the floor again before speaking. I have a right, the chairman has given me permission, yes, I have no right if he doesn't let me. I am making a procedure for you, Mr. President, I ask you again to follow the Rules of Procedure. A few hours ago, I proposed that a paragraph be reported under paragraph precisely for this reason. Its proposal is absolutely unfounded because you report three or four paragraphs, and we speak five or six minutes each, we exceed one minute of time. My fellow Member on the left, so three or four paragraphs, we're entitled to a 20-minute speech? Each Member of the National Assembly according to art. 80, I ask the honourable Vice-President, when he reads the Rules, not to read it as the devil's Gospel. 80, para. 3 says so: The Member of the National Assembly may justify the proposals made within five minutes for each proposal. We have a two-paragraph proposal, if I'm not mistaken, is not the text in front of me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u194	Yeah, in the discussion... Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u195	So my request is, I'm not nervous, I get emotional when I don't follow the rules. My request is, please, really strictly follow the regulations so that I don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Wait a minute, guys! Colleagues, the short overtime can be allowed, of course, within certain limits, not too much more, but again I appeal to a discussion on specific texts. I understand, yes, the National Assembly is a political body, political statements are being made, such were also made in the discussion on the title, well, but the discussion still needs to follow the texts. One second, we'll vote on the procedure. However, bear in mind that the bill has 67 paragraphs, and if such a discussion is being developed on any such paragraph, you may think of where the work of the National Assembly will lead. It will not lead to the adoption of the Bill, but simply to extremely lengthy and perhaps unnecessary lengthy debates. I put to the vote Ivan Chenchev's procedural proposal to end the debate under paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6. I am sure that the arguments you have and wanted to say on both of these and within this discussion you will also be able to put them out in the following paragraphs as they are also logically related to each other. We vote on Ivan Chenchev's proposal. Vote 193 MPs: 121, against 70, abstention 2. Revoting Hristo Gajev, come in, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u197	Dear Mr. President, in my request for a re-vote, I would just like to point out to you that we are returning to a case that took place during the second reading of the budget, the State Budget Act. There are proposals made by MPs on the issues paragraphs, right? They shall have the right to submit proposals within five minutes. This debate has already been held at the time of the adoption of the State Budget Act. With this vote, you are actually derogating the Rules. Explain to me how, as I asked you last time at the time of the adoption of a second reading of the budget, how now the MPs who have made proposals will be able to present them and will implement the Rules? That question, I think we've already discussed it and we all remember how it ended. I call on the House to show some sense so that we do not return to that debate, which was not particularly beneficial for parliamentaryism on the adoption of the budget at second reading. I pay attention because this is coming.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u198	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Before we proceed to the re-voting that you have asked for, there is no way that we will not put it to the vote and therefore, of course, comply with the will of the House, but in the following paragraphs, proposals have been made again, they are all systematically linked, as well as those referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4, namely where to delete the words of the requested court. I think that the general idea of the proposals made is clear, so that the MPs will have the opportunity to deal with these arguments and in the following paragraphs, I have no doubt about that. Colleagues, re-vote. After the re-voting, Mr. Petrov won't... It's a re-vote. Mr. Gazhev, however, in the budget between the paragraphs there is much less connectivity especially at the beginning, when they are under the financial framework and then there is in the individual institutions. If there is a proposal for termination, and it is valid only in a second vote, it cannot be otherwise, the Rules allow it. Vote 196 MPs: 124 against 72 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Now let's hear Peter Petrov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u199	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. First of all, I would like to point out to both you and the Members of the National Assembly that although I disagree with certain procedures in which decisions are taken and acts of the National Assembly are adopted, where, if we had 48 deputies at least, the Constitutional Court would probably also sit on weekends. I am extremely, how to say, positively in the tolerant manner in which you are giving the opportunity to speak, including the passage of time, how to say, the area of speech and therefore, as I personally welcome this conduct and this manner of conduct of the National Assembly, and in today, of course, I have freely left all Members of the National Assembly, I have listened to them carefully, I stand here in this Chamber, the statements of some of whom we have all solidified that they are not according to the specific bill of second reading, but of course it is freedom of the Members of the National Assembly, I respect the way and tolerance of conduct so far. But I would like to ask you, Mr President, and that is why it is my procedure, as there may be a statement by colleagues, for example, in the case of § 5 I wanted to speak, because the aim was to have at least one statement on the bill itself, at least to ask you in the following paragraphs, first of all, not to look at three, four, five, six at once, and then to leave at least one statement on the bill itself, for which I will state the word, if necessary in advance, in order to have a debate on a second vote on the substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u200	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. I also wish that the speeches would be on specific texts. In this I understand you completely and I regret that in this case, after several speeches, it did not come to your end. I therefore appeal again to colleagues to be the discussion on the texts, so as not to get to the situation that Commissioner Petrov pointed out. We are going to vote on paragraphs 3 to 6 including, first of all, the proposals that the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs has not supported. First of all, I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, which is § 3 to be rejected. The Commission has not supported this proposal. Vote 195 MPs: 65 against 129, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the next proposal, which is also from the MP Dessislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, and it is to reject § 4. The proposal is not supported by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Vote 195 MPs: 64 against 130, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. Moving to vote on paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6. We vote 'em enbloc. All four paragraphs.... 3, 4, 5 and 6 are in version by importer. Vote 194 MPs: 131, against 63, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Before we proceed with the Report, I declare a 20-minute recess, then proceed with § 7. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u201	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. I give the floor to the President of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, paragraph 7. There is a proposal by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 7 to be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. Paragraph 8 "A proposal from the National Representative Desislava Atanasova" paragraph 8 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u203	Let's hear §9 and that's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u204	Paragraph 9 "A proposal from the National Representative Desislava Atanasova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to reject paragraph 9. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u205	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. I'm opening a discussion on paragraphs 7, 8 and 9. Here you are, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman! I'm also addressing the Chair of the Legal Commission! Please do not unite the paragraphs several times from our group. Every single paragraph we have a proposal submitted and every single paragraph we have a speech within 5 minutes. Apart from whether or not it concerns the substance of the matter, Mr President, the bill in each paragraph includes a text to close or delete the word of a specialised court, so I ask you very much to bear this in mind in the discussions of the individual paragraphs, and I repeat: each of them to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. If it's for each one, it's going to be 67 separate discussions, so we allow ourselves not to be exactly one at a time. We'll give everyone the opportunity to defend their proposals, don't worry. I also appeal again for the speeches to be on specific texts, and the work will go smoothly. Are there any who wish to make statements under paragraphs 7, 8 and 9? Mrs. Alexandrova, under paragraphs 7, 8 and 9? Okay, we'll wait for you. I saw you just walked in. And Luben Dilov, too. Here you are, Mr. Dilov, until Mrs. Alexandrova is ready.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! We have been called upon several times to speak on the substance, because it is a law of second reading, but in fact every statement we make is essentially. Because every amendment we discuss is the deletion of the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office. So what's pó essentially going to say? We're replacing the waiver with the ban if you want this to be the actual debate. So my statement is the substance of the proposals under paragraphs 7, 8 and 9. On several occasions, we have been accused of speaking to people who are not aware of judicial reform and are again called upon to speak on the ground. After all, I will remind you that dentists' problems are the problems of people with teeth, that is, the reform we are doing today, or as we will call it, affects all people, not only those who are extremely tempted by the details of the work of the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office. And as such a man, as a bark, I ask you, gentlemen ruling, a simple question. From the whole debate until now, I couldn't understand, and from the first reading of the debate, what exactly do you dislike about the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office? You don't like the people who work there? [[Heckling]] Listen to my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u209	Quiet, please, colleagues, in the courtroom!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u210	You don't like people who work there, or you don't like structures? Because if you don't like the people who work there, and you have a bad assessment of their activities, as far as I'm concerned, these same people will continue to work in this same system. Let's expect them to have other results, because they will be in another system, we can expect it, of course, but the effect will be questionable, let's say the least. You obviously don't like the structure, I mean, you think that these people put in this structure are turning into a bat, into a repression, an inquisition I heard here. If they are returned, for example, to a city court, these people will not be an inquisition, they will not be a bat and everything is wonderful. Is that correct? Because I didn't hear any other argument, legal, specific, and we are constantly being accused of making political statements. And you know, today this debate is developing on a very famous date that I'm going to end up with, I don't think I'm going to make long speeches. The date is 110 years since the sinking of Titanic, today is the end. I think what we're doing right now is what you're doing right now! With all the judicial reform, you rearrange the furniture of the Titanic as a measure against its sinking. That's what we do. We have called on the National Assembly several times since the beginning of this National Assembly: if we are to make a judicial reform, if you are to make a judicial reform, it must logically start with the Commission. It must start with fundamental problems, because now that we have removed these people, I repeat my question again, from the Specialized Court and from the Special Prosecutor's Office and send them somewhere else, unclear where, I hope, to reach the debate and to where exactly we will send them, they will change. Is that right? That's exactly what you do, esteemed executives. You move the furniture of the Titanic. Good luck with that. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u211	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Reply by Anton Tonev, then by Georgi Mihaylov and third by Atanas Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u212	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear Mr. Dilov! Without being a lawyer, I couldn't help but take advantage of your speech, especially in his dental and dental part. As has been explained to us several times, the Special Court deals with the problems of organized criminal groups. Are you getting my idea, Mr. Dilov? Come in for an answer in the back!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u213	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Here you are, Professor Mihailov, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear Mr. Dilov, I hope that we will be the first and last to take account of this law by this group of lackeys led by you. I have another thought: The care for saving drownings is the care of the drownings themselves. If you don't remember, I'll remind you, but you remember very well. There is an argument and it was said here at the beginning of Krum Zarkov. The argument is lack of efficiency, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u215	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u216	The numbers came out. And everything else was mainly political speeches that could not protect the lack of efficiency. That's the main argument. It is worth analyzing, it is analyzed, a decision has been made and it will be implemented. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u217	Thank you, Professor. And associate professor Slavov for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I'd like to join the Ladies and Gentlemen's Group with one of those words. You're right, Mr. Dilov today is a significant date. Exactly one year from the opening of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly, exactly one year! On the first day we submitted the draft amendment to the Constitution of Bulgaria for large-scale judicial reform, accountability and responsibility of the Prosecutor General and the Draft amendment of the Law on the Judiciary for the closing of specialized justice. Exactly one year! Exactly one year of time in which the Bulgarian society expects us to close down the special justice system and today this will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u219	Thank you, Professor Slavov. Mr. Dilov, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, colleagues who gave me lines. Mr. Slavov, you didn't bring it in because you didn't have signatures. The Commission does not work for a change of the Constitution because none of the opposition participates in the Constitution. It is not only GERB-SDS, the DPS does not participate, rebirth. Why aren't they participating?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u221	How can they not be involved?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u222	Are you in? My apologies! And you're sitting down? Thank you. So, I apologize. Now I don't get it! Doctor, when we move the furniture, the system becomes more efficient, right? Is that what you said? Because I was under the impression that you answered me! Because that's what we're doing. We're moving the furniture right now, and we're saying that the system is going to get a lot more efficient. Okay, let's see. Let's be safe and sound! And of course, at the first replicator, I would like to say: yes, I am well aware that dentists' problems are the problems of people with teeth. It's the same with organized crime. Its object is people, everyday people, those billions of coupons that rubbed, who rubbed them? They've been rubbed by ordinary people, their money's there. Part of the 3 billion we're talking about is public or uninvited interest, it's part of that money, these people! I'm not saying who's guilty, I'm not giving sentences, there are courts for that. I did not get the answer to the question: who do you dislike the structure or the people who work in it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u223	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Dani Kanazireva for speech, Petar Nikolov also for speech, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Dilov, since you didn't get an answer, let me ask you that answer. Inefficientness as a phrase, you understand yourself throughout this debate, and at first reading that it is a hollow phrase that is not backed up with any figures and any facts. It's a bill of chaotic facts and reasoning, without a relationship. They don't like judges there, most likely the magistrates, and when we get to the legal framework for their status, I will explain to you how they just want to replace these judges and replace this court with someone else who, however, also didn't bother to present us with any data and numbers for its greater effectiveness than this court. Again: the persons who have received convictions from the establishment of the special court are 2232 defendants, and from 2004 to 2011. The period to which we will now return as legislation has received 829, almost twice and a half difference. So efficiency is obviously not a problem, it is a problem to replace some magistrates. Since I have heard several times today what cases the court is dealing with, I am sure that many of the MPs, despite the serious decision they are preparing to make today, have not bothered to know what cases there are in this court. I'll introduce you to him by the end of the session. I have requested only a reference to the cases of factual and legal complexity, because I heard from the left of the Chamber that the success of the cases was almost merely for domestic crime, and you obviously do not even know at all what conviction and what cases are being dealt with in this court. I am starting, colleagues, with a 2016 General Case. Subject of the case. Subject to the filed indictment against 28 defendants with charges of involvement in an organized crime group, solicitation of prostitution, detention of drug possession and money laundering. Volume of the case, colleagues, 182 volumes. Witnesses of the prosecution are 232 persons, and the property faces are 15. I will explain to you why many of the private cases are more than other courts because when you have 30, 40, 50 and 60 defendants, measures are taken against each of them. Only this case is 182 volumes, and all of these with legal and factual complexity are 144 in 13 thousand volumes, colleagues, and you have foreseen a deadline for handing over the cases seven days. 13,000 volumes are just these cases, and I'm left with everyone else. How are we gonna do that?! This isn't blocking the justice system, and this is a disaster. Second Case of 2018 Subject: The case has been initiated on an indictment filed against 12 defendants with charges of: participation in an organized criminal group, individual crimes against the monetary system of the Republic of Bulgaria, keeping and hiding objects, computer programs that they knew were intended to spice up payment instruments, to store information about the contents of the payment instruments. The volume of the case is 53 volumes. The case is expected to be executed by the People's Republic of China. We have many paragraphs and many speeches. I'll introduce you to a common culture of what kind of cases are seen in this court, not just listening to general talk about bats, inquisitions and all that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u226	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mrs. Kanazireva, you're not right in the answer you gave to Mr. Dilov. His question was really incredible, because his question should be answered, first of all, what the creation of this court required and what changed. Did you put new people smarter, prettier, or was the institution itself another?! Mr. Dilov himself gave the definition of this court, calling it the Titanic. After 10 years of work, this court simply sank as a Titanic, although you all explain how great it is and how much need there was for this court. With regard to judges and cases. The deeds will be seen by the same judges, and if these judges do not want to see the cases, this will speak eloquently of their morality as a whole. These thousands of cases with the thousands of volumes will remain where they are. There is no one to betray them, and the same judges will finish exactly the same cases. Mrs. Kanazireva, there are no private cases in the Specialized Criminal Court and there are private criminal cases. Those are two different concepts. As I was urged, I do declare that I have a private interest in pending a case at the Specialized Criminal Court so that there are no false impressions that I am covering this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u227	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The second line will be from Iskren Mitev and the third from Emil Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u228	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mrs. Kanazireva, I don't believe you, people don't believe you and the European institutions don't believe you, and now I'm going to tell you why. Firstly, not only is this court not effective, but it is not effective and sustainable over the years. Here are the reports: This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The report on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism "Key problem" is the lack of consistent results in Bulgaria when it comes to cases of corruption on the high levels of power. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21 (2) of the Financial Regulation. The European Commission's annual report on the rule of law has not obtained any solid results with regard to the final convictions in cases of corruption on the high levels of power. 2021 The European Commission's annual report on the rule of law is not available for judicial review in the event of the prosecutor's refusal to initiate legal proceedings and the lack of the possibility of effective control of the Prosecutor General. 2021 The Corruption Perception Index: Bulgaria has the worst performance. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. Three days ago, not even three days ago, but from yesterday in the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament in Sofia, I quote: The need for real changes in the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and the court to improve investigations against violations of EU funds and corruption crimes. Nobody believes you!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u229	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line, Emil Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u230	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! A line to Mrs. Kanazirevka all day you have been teaching us today and said that you will give answers, you are talking about some material collateral of 3 billion. lv. I ask: when you talk about such collateral and the work of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office, do you mean the collateral in the first government of GERB's favorite person Ivo Prokopiev? [[Laughter, lines.]] Do you mean the specialized prosecutor who dealt with the most criminal privatization in Bulgaria? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are you referring to Kaolin's worth of 46 million? $72,000, and it was privatized. lv. In the case of tangible assets, 5 billion BGN, and I ask you: where is your Special Prosecutor's Office?! You have the nerve to talk about material collateral all the time! Well, if you're going to answer that question, why is there an umbrella behind Ivo Prokopiev when in your first government there were four ministers and the finance was sleeping even in his apartment? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u231	Colleagues, I'm asking you to keep a good tone and not involve third parties and who slept where. Please! Here you are, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u232	Where do I start? Gentlemen of the BSP, perhaps this will be another internal-coalition scandal, because this issue should have been addressed by the Democratic Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u233	Mrs. Kanazireva, please come to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u234	This question for Mr. Prokopiev should at the very least be asked to me........................ to ask him to a coalition council of your partners from.. Democratic Bulgaria..... but not to provoke jealousy. My fellow Members, I address you very seriously, as we are talking with figures and indices, the situation may not be good, but it is getting worse and more disastrous, gentlemen. I am impressed that all persons and lawyers who have cases in the Specialized Court are speaking throughout your bill. I am not a penalist and I do not appear before the Special Court, and I have the absolute moral right to judge as a lawyer your actions and what you do. When you quote the reports from the European Commission, you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u235	I'm an economist!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u236	Well, if you're an economist, then don't talk about the legal aspects and don't read the reports the way it suits you! Don't replicate me from where I'm standing! This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The main changes included the transfer of corruption cases on the high levels of power to the Specialized Criminal Court and stricter rules on the possibility of the courts returning cases to the prosecution on formal grounds. Just so you know, these high-level corruption cases have only been transferred to the Special Court in 2018, and due to unsatisfactory results. In 2018, these cases went there, and now you want to return them. You don't do anything new, you don't create anything new, and now you want to bring them back to the Sofia City Court. What's your logic, where's your idea of a better, faster and fairer justice?! This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The report of the European Commission, based on the analysis of the sixth indicator, organised crime: The report confirms the conclusion of November 2017 that Bulgaria has made significant progress on Recommendation 16 and has implemented Recommendation 17. The monitoring of the sixth indicator may be considered to be temporary. If I return you to the 2009 report when a 100-year-old or 120-year-old party...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u237	The weather, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u238	... BSP ruled, in fact it is said that in Bulgaria there are still ongoing murders related to organized crime and known criminals are not detained. Colleagues, you are returning a proven inefficient legal framework why? Your goal is the cases pending in this court, and I will continue to introduce you to them until the end of the meeting. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is to you in the manner of conduct. I can see that you are doing this, but please be more insistent. We are at the second reading of the Bill. Justice in Bulgaria was before, during and after the Specialized Court and Prosecutor's Office, and there will be justice. This debate and what we have been listening to here for hours has been a first reading debate. We are currently dealing with the relations of these magistrates who worked in the Specialized Court, Prosecutor's Office and Investigation, and the cases. This is the bill of second reading and let's stick to the bill itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u241	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Peter Nikolov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like some Members, I will start by saying that Parliament is a political body and there is no way that this debate should not be political. There is no way that the debate should not be political when it comes to an institution, the only one in the last three decades who has tried to attack those considered untouchable Bulgarian oligarchs. The debate is political for one main reason: today the majority of this National Assembly is preparing to take a political decision, not expert, because it does not hear the expert opinions, but a political decision so to liquidate the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office in Bulgaria. Why? You will allow me only a few sentences historically. 30 years ago the communist regime in Bulgaria collapsed. By collapsing, the secret services of the communist regime distributed to the sons of the communist Gauletter resources.. financial, powerful and others to build the so-called Bulgarian oligarchy. [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] The term "Oligarsi" appeared in the public domain during the Triple Coalition, which is the ideological forefather of this coming turlugüvech, who rules today. For 30 years, no one in Bulgaria believed that these people with fierce nicknames, with bad fame, could somehow be touched by the law. With these reasonable judges that mine spoke of, I would say, my friend Mr. Slavov, he said: we will return the laws to reasonable courts and so on, one hair did not fall from these oligarchs. One hair all this time! This is the only period in which there was a sense of justice and for the fact that the law is equal for everyone, was the period during which the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office in Bulgaria existed. The only period! The rest of the time, there were untouchables. So, ladies and gentlemen, and that concludes, if any of you in a dark doba, in a car with dark glass has gone off to meet with an oligarch, to accept some allus-trust, to take political promises, it is clear why he will vote in this way, but if you're convinced that there are honest people in the majority, if you are not one of these people, if you are not involved in this case, if you are simply becoming pawns of someone else's actions, act wisely, do not listen to what the political leaders say to you. Vote as Bulgarians, not as people serving the Bulgarian oligarchy. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u243	Atanas Slavov for the cue come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Nikolov, perhaps ideologically we are very close, but let me say five names of investigated by the Special Prosecutor's Office, accused and for some, thank God, closed cases, one person has a pending case in the Specialized Criminal Court. In chronological order I will start "Simeon Dyankov," Traycho Traykov, Nikolay Nenchev, Daniel Mitov, Neno Dimov. Are these the oligarchs of Bulgaria? Are these the oligarchs of Bulgaria?! This is an example of custom justice when someone falls out of power, however. When someone falls out of power, except for Neno Dimov. For most of these cases, evidence has been manufactured, accusations have been made for defending a position of clear, Euro-Atlantic, geopolitical, anti-Russian position, and in the last one or two years the Special Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office have thought that there are Russian spies in Bulgaria and have started chasing them on two or three spies a year in an attempt to take the sharp turn and save their skins. For these reasons, political, selective, selective, motivated justice must be closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u245	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague, I ask you in the line to mark and show Mr. Slavov that here he quotes other types of cases. I cannot understand you want to have a fight against corruption on the high levels of power, including during the management of GERB there were such honourable colleagues. Nobody's insured from anything. Since someone has enough grounds and evidence to press charges, there's a court, a prosecutor's office... I don't understand why you're mistaking cases. We talked about other kinds of cases, and you're bringing in corruption cases here?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u247	This was supposed to be about Peter Nikolov, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u248	Yes, to Mr. Nikolov is the line. I'm asking you to reflect this in the back of your head because Mr. Slavov is wrong again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u249	Thank you. Is there a third line? I won't. Please, Mr. Nikolov, explain this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u250	Mr. Slavov, you came up with a very selective list. Yes, there have been charges filed. Yeah, lawsuits have been filed. Yeah, some of the people are justified. I believe in their innocence, but there are other people, and you're not closing this court because of those names you mentioned. You're shutting it down precisely because of the names that have been attacked in the last two or three years. You are shutting them down because these people, not the ones you have listed, but those people who have been attacked in the last two or three years, have a colossal financial resource that they have invested in changing the political structure in Bulgaria, to bring a government that serves as their instrument. In the tapes that came out, they said they wanted a chief prosecutor figure, they said all this, and you become part of this process, you become part of this process of putting an umbrella again on the Bulgarian oligarchy. That's what I'm trying to tell you. The names you have listed are selective. Why don't you list names with nicknames? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u251	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Mrs. Alexandrova has made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! My speech will be in connection with the amendment and the addition of art. 28, 50 and 225... [[Reply from rapporteur Milen Mateev.]] No, Art. 28, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary under paragraphs, one part of which passed, another part voted earlier. I was enrolled for a speech, as my fellow Member at ARCHER said, and he was, but colleagues suggested closing the debate, and we failed. As it goes on and they're related to the others, I'm going to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u253	At least it'll be on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u254	Yeah, on the subject, that's right. With the amendment and the Appendix to art. 28, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary, respectively Art. 50, done in 2020 in our time, I believe that the legislator has reached a balance between the search for mechanisms for attracting members of the Supreme Judicial Council, Chief Inspector and Inspectors of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, magistrates of high professionalism, good professional experience, moral qualities and motivated to participate fully in the implementation of judicial reform and the possibility of their work in these bodies of the judicial system being assessed. In this legal framework, I believe that we explicitly envisaged at the time that we did not automatically restore a position higher than what was held before the election, but an opportunity to restore a higher position by decision of the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council, which I believe was absolutely lawful and normal on the basis of an assessment of the actual work done during the term of office of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chief Inspector and the inspectors of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. With this legislative decision, we then achieved and did not violate the constitutional principle of independence of the judiciary or the principles of separation of authorities, the rule of law and equality of citizens before the law. We do not agree with the reasons in the Bill that the possibility of recovery of one degree higher than the one occupied constitutes an unfair advantage, as the Ministry of Justice believes, for career growth in front of other judges, prosecutors and investigators. We believe that these provisions, whose withdrawal aims at the Bill, do not create conditions for unequal treatment between the members of the Supreme Judicial Council and the members of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, on the one hand, and the other magistrates, because for the elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council for Chief Inspectors and the inspectors, higher requirements have been introduced, expressing the intention of the legislature to elect judges, prosecutors and investigators with great practical experience, and I dare say that the positions are becoming increasingly unattractive. You'll see for yourself that this is the case if you continue in your precinct. It is these positions that should be attractive to magistrates with good practical and moral experience and qualities. The analysis of those provisions shows that for elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Chief Inspector, the requirements for taking up the post are higher than those laid down for magistrates at the highest level in the judicial authorities and the requirements for inspectors in the Inspectorate are aligned to them. During the work the members of the two bodies acquire different, very high and comprehensive experience from their experience so far, and the quality of their duties depends on the essential decisions and achievements of the judiciary, magistrates themselves and the whole society. For example, the resolution of issues related to the management of judicial authorities; the provision of sufficient personnel, material and financial resources; the overcoming of uneven workload; continuous monitoring and control of the movement and the closure of cases and files within the established deadlines. In this regard, the duties of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chief Inspector and the Inspectors of the Inspectorate, although they do not include the exercise of judicial and enforcement functions, require much greater responsibility, effort and very often the making of unattractive and conflicting decisions in the name of a quality implementation of state policy in the field of judicial management and control. Exactly what colleague Petrov said at the age, about professional internship, about dropping out of para. 3, which we voted on a little earlier. The main argument on why this legal decision should be maintained is the need to attract, as I told you earlier, to the Supreme Judicial Council and to the Inspectorate magistrates with high professional and moral qualities to be so motivated to carry out their duties that, after the end of the term of office, they have the possibility of professional growth. For the duration of the term of office, the same persons are deprived of the possibility of taking part in competitions for promotion and relocation, and therefore the preservation of the possibility of career growth after the term of office is fair compensation for that period. It is also not irrelevant that, with the removal of this possibility after being restored to the judicial authorities from where they came from, there is a real danger that the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chief Inspector and the inspectors will suffer negative consequences of the attitude of superiors in whose professional activity they have detected violations and have taken measures to remove them, including through initiation, formation and conduct of disciplinary proceedings. [[the President signals that time has run out]] And I'm going to say in a nutshell about art. 225 as regards dismissal for the elected members of the SJC, the Chief Inspector and the inspectors. This legal regime is based on the principle proclaimed, as I said, in art. 28, para. 1 sentence last of the Law on the Judiciary and Art. 52 of the Law on the Judiciary, according to which the time during which the person was a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, respectively, the time served as Chief Inspector shall be regarded as an internship under art. 164, para. 7 of the Law on the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u255	Maybe this is where we stop, Mrs. Alexandrova, and if there are lines, you can continue in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u256	Thank you. I don't see any lines. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appeal to you in the manner of conduct, I do not understand why you have allowed us to take this discussion back to paragraphs 1 and 5, which we have already accepted? Ms. Alexandrova's statement was related to these paragraphs and had nothing to do with paragraphs 7, 8 and 9, which are currently in discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u258	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. From what I understand, this has been made clear to the President that she will have this opportunity. [[a line from the MP Anna Alexandrova]] Wait a minute, let me just answer that. However, there have also been a lot of speeches that had nothing to do with the current Members, so in my opinion, this omission of mine is understandable and admissible. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have great respect for you, dear Mr. Vigenin. My fellow Member, I have also explained to Mr Vigenin before speaking in the first paragraphs, for the fifth time we are doing a procedure on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS.. I do not know what language to explain it to you, and then you say that I am nervous. I am not nervous, simply do not violate the Rules of Procedure or report paragraph under paragraph and give us the opportunity to speak on every paragraph on which we have a proposal, or do not interrupt unwarranted and unlawful speeches, as the fellow Member has done. I respected him, and then I didn't do the procedure, and I didn't make a statement, and I was recorded. I'm sorry, I'd like to speak. What do you think I should do about it? It's not Mr. Vigenin's fault.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u260	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u261	I just told you: report paragraph by paragraph. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I think we can make a reasonable compromise. Let's report a few paragraphs, but if it happens so that there is a problem and you insist on speaking, let's give it a chance. Are there any other statements on these paragraphs? I can't see. Please invite your colleagues, because I am closing the discussion and we will proceed to the vote, but we will wait a while. In order not to be silent, to say that first, of course, we will vote on the unsupported proposals, then we will vote on all three paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u263	Procedure! You want procedure now, Mrs. Atanasova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am helping you in the awkward situation of continuing through the disclosure system to invite the ruling majority to vote. Secondly, I am using the procedure to inform colleagues from the plenary and, in particular, colleague Georgi Svilenski of an undertaking which we made as a commitment last week, namely, if you remember, colleagues, here in plenary was during the blitzcontrol Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Cornelia Ninova. And she gave our attention a reference to the Court of Auditors' audit report which was not presented to the National Assembly. I then stated that I would support every step towards publicity and transparency with regard to the findings identified by the Court of Auditors on audit reports in relation to the award by the National Assembly of such audit reports. And since I am very keen on what has been said, not only from the parliamentary tribune, our parliamentary group an hour ago submitted a proposal, honourable Members, for a draft decision to oblige the Court of Auditors to submit to the National Assembly a final audit report on compliance in the conclusion and implementation of the Public Procurement Contracts of the Road Infrastructure Agency with regard to the design, construction and operation of an electronic charging system for the use of the Republican road network from the beginning of the design of the system until the end of 2020 with reasons attached to it. I note that... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u266	...this audit report has long been awarded to the Court of Auditors, as well as the other one who commented on Mrs. Nino, namely on 18 December 2020 from the Forty-fourth National Assembly, and therefore please, Mr. President, in consultation with Mr. Minchev to submit this draft decision by the National Assembly, in the fastest possible way this can happen with the agreement of the President of Parliament, to become a item of the agenda so that the Court of Auditors can present to the National Assembly all the conclusions of its audit reports. Thank you for your attention. And I hope, Mr. Svilensky, that you will also fulfill your commitment to the plenary and to the President of your party and Deputy Prime Minister in the current government. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u267	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Congratulations on your efforts. I'm sure it'll come as a point, if not this one, one of the next weeks. By procedure Mr. Svilensky and then Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! A little off the subject, as Mrs. Atanasova raised the question. You have only forgotten to say, Mrs. Atanasova, that this report is on the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria, submitted to the Forty-fourth National Assembly, voted by the majority and, as I said a week ago, all the reports that the Court of Auditors has to enter this Chamber, that is, not a step back or a short one side. What we've said will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u269	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Now Mr. Atanasov. I hope we can move on to the vote after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also propose that you, of course, put to the vote my proposal to extend the working time until this item is exhausted from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u271	Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. Maybe it'll go back to the way it was.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u272	Rather as vice versa or as a complement, I propose by the end of a second item on the agenda, as you know, honourable Members, everyone is waiting for the decision on this second point, so I call on us today to work to do something useful for Bulgarian citizens. [[Reply from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u273	And today, Mr. Gadget. Thank you. Are there any other suggestions? I can't see. I will first put to the vote Mr. Svilensky's proposal if it is rejected, then I will propose the proposal to Mr. Atanasov. I put to the vote the proposal to extend the meeting today to run out of first and second items on the agenda for today. Vote 208 MPs: 177, against 29, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We have a long and intense day ahead of us with this agenda. We are going to vote on proposals that are not supported by the Commission. First under § 7.. a proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 7. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please, voting mode. 200 MPs voted: 77 against 122, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs to reject § 8, which is not supported by the Commission. 200 MPs voted: 78 against 122, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We also vote on the third proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the dismissal of § 9. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 202 MPs: 77 against 126, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 by importer. Vote 197 MPs: 122 against 75 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u274	Under § 10, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 10 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. Under § 11, there is a proposal from the MP Dessislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 11 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. Under § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 12 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. Under § 13, there is a proposal from the MP Dessislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 13 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MP Dessislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 14 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. Under § 15 there is a proposal from the MP Dessislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 15 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. Under Paragraph 16, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 16 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u275	And now it seems to me, Mr. Mateev, that perhaps § 17 is also related to everything read so far. If I'm right about the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office, let's read it too, so we can comment on the whole range of issues on this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under Paragraph 17, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 17 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs: In § 17, paragraph 17 is replaced by the following: 2 is amended as follows: in para. The second sentence is repealed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 136 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in a sentence, second, the words suppliably specialized Prosecution (Prosecution) and specialized Prosecution (Prosecution) shall be deleted; (b) in the third sentence, the words 2. In para. The second sentence is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u277	I open the debate under paragraphs 10 to 17. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 10, not supported by the Commission. They voted 190 MPs: for 71, against 119, there is no abstention. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova under § 11. Vote 189 MPs: 69 against 120, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 12, not supported by the Commission. Vote 187 MPs: 66 against 121, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dessislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 13. Vote 192 MPs: 70 against 122, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 14, not supported by the Commission. Vote 187 MPs: for 69, against 118, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 15, not supported by the Commission. Vote 184 MPs: 65 against 119, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 16, not supported by the Commission. Vote 188 MPs: 68 against 120, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 17, not supported by the Commission. Vote 188 MPs: 68, against 118, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on paragraphs 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and § 16 in the version of the importer and § 17 in the version of the Commission. Vote 191 MPs: 124 against 67 abstentions. The motion is accepted. We move on to the following paragraphs, Mr. Mateev, of § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under § 18, there is a proposal from the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 138, p. 6 is finally a comma and is added to which are published on the website of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria within 7 days of their issuance. According to § 19 there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, i.e. 1 the words "synthesis" shall be replaced by the text before that. 1..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u279	Give us a few more paragraphs to read.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u280	Proposal of the National Representative Milen Mateev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules to create a new § 20. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 144 para. 3 is
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u281	It seems to me that we can up to § 23 including here to present.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u282	Under § 20, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21. Under § 21, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22. Under § 22, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 23. Under § 23, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 24, in c. 2 the words "synthesis" shall be replaced by the text before that. 1..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u283	So far, I suggest we stop for now. I'm opening a discussion on these paragraphs. Please come in for a statement. Mr. Balachev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u284	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My statement will be specifically under § 18 in which it is offered to us in art. 138, p. 6 to finally place a comma and add to it which are published on the website of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria within 7 days of their issuance. I believe that this text, so proposed, is unlawful and could not create such a paragraph with the obligation of the Attorney General, because for those who do not most likely think. Art. 138 in conjunction with Art. 136 refers to the rights and obligations and general supervision of the Prosecutor General over investigators, prosecutors and so on in specific cases, on the one hand, on the other hand, to the issuance of internal regulations, such as instructions, and they are for internal use, have a certain degree of secrecy and are for internal use of the prosecution system itself. In this regard, on two grounds, on the one hand, that there is no way for the prosecution to disclose on its website how it organises its activities on the detection of crimes and the relevant actions to be carried out in this regard cannot be published, and on the other hand, we have a ban, on the one hand, listed in the PPC on the so-called investigative secret, and on the other hand, we also have the Personal Data Act. If in relation to any case in which the Attorney General has given any methodical, thick emphasis methodical and not specific, as the specific instructions are issued by the monitoring prosecutor, then that means that we would break three laws at the same time. Therefore, I propose that this amendment be abolished in § 18 so that we do not do and do not create lawful amendments and additions to the Law. Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u285	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Here's a line. Mr. Atanasov, second line. I don't see anything else.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Balachev, regarding your proposal, I do not see how the publication of methodical guidelines that are abstract and with repeated application could lead to any violation of the investigative secret. I think this is a very normal expectation for citizens to be able to understand how their case files are handled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u287	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. Second line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Balachev, other than what the previous one said, another argument. If any document is sealed, there is a Classified Information Protection Act, the corresponding griff must be placed, and then everything is clear. If there is no basis for secrecy, i.e. to place a griff, there is no reason to publish this information, all the more so that in this case it is a matter of methodological guidance, and not any guidance in a particular case, whatever it is, and the subject of investigative secrecy is irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u289	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Third line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Balachev for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u290	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'll be very brief. I'm probably one of the few people in this room who's been in criminal law his whole life, and from morning to night, I've been in the halls for years. I am aware of the way in which this is really not about such secrecy as General Atanasov is talking about, this is about internal rules which are not subject to promulgation. Anyone who considers that there is any interest in them under the Public Information Access Act could receive one. But there's no way the prosecution can't say how it protects witnesses or anything else, because that's exactly what these methodical guidelines cover. As for whether or not the rights of citizens are affected, any person concerned who is a party to a criminal proceedings, whether a defendant, or a accused person, could, in certain and described in the Code of Criminal Procedure, obtain the document personally for himself, but in no case would he want it, it does not matter whether he was injured, imagine, for example, a rape of how much she would want to understand what instructions the prosecutor gave so that her case could be disclosed. So, again, there are rules in the PPC that do not allow these things to be published in this order that you want. This is not about protecting the prosecution, it's about protecting the general rules of action of the criminal trial.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u291	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u292	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As I stated at the outset and as you have shown interest, I will continue to inform you of the closure of the Special Court and the way in which you are doing it the risk for the cases pending at the time and that the same does not apply to minor crimes or domestic crime, as arguments have been made by the Chamber in order to undermine the work of the Court. And I am continuing at the moment, in addition to those I have informed you, there is a criminal case of a general nature pending since 2015, the case has been initiated on an indictment filed against 17 defendants on charges of involvement in an organized crime group for secondary crimes. Drug trafficking, distribution of drugs, and the volume so far of the case is 33 volumes, the witnesses of the state prosecution referred to in the indictment are 72, and the property persons appointed to the appointed experts are 17 and a response is currently expected from the Republic of Vietnam for the surrender of one of the defendants in Bulgaria. And then, when I pointed out several times that there is no way that some territorial authorities with limited powers could do better than those with national competence and already established lasting cross-border relations with partners, I believe that these cases prove it for the last time. A case also pending at the time of a general nature since 2015, which has been the subject of the case, in fact, the accused persons are 13 on the charge of participating in an organised criminal group for secondary ongoing tax crimes of particularly large proportions, with a loss of the budget of only one of the crimes of more than 2 million. lv. with an equivalent in euro of more than 1 million. Euros. The volume of the case, colleagues, is 122 volumes. The witnesses of the state's indictment referred to in the indictment are 83, and the property is 20. Once again, the deadlines you set to complete and send the cases within 7 days will be extremely insufficient. A pending case of a general nature from 2020 The case has been brought under an indictment filed against nine defendants on charges of involvement in an organized crime group for committing fraud for secondary crimes, fraud on a particularly large scale, representing a particularly serious case.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u293	Sorry, just for a second. Excuse me, Mrs. Kanazireva. I'll let you two talk just to say, yeah, yeah, yeah, take it easy. Let me say, because there is no way to conduct it later, that it is really not quite on the subject that we are discussing, but because Mrs. Kanazireva is willing to inform us, there was such a desire from one of the groups, so I am staying the five minutes, but exactly five and then we will continue. Continue, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u294	Dear Mr. Chairman, thank you. I would like to say that this is also on the subject, because in each of the cited paragraphs, those which are under discussion, in each of them there is a deletion of the word "specialized court and prosecution" and these cases, which I present, are actually pending before these.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u295	Yeah, I'll give you a little more time, which I took from you with my comment. Yes, go on!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u296	No, I'm gonna stop, since I'm gonna get a second chance. Then I'm done at the moment. I would like only for those who have spoken several times, again in order to minimize the material interest of the cases that are pending, namely 3 billion. BGN, and several times they said what would happen to them and that almost they would still stay there. And not knowing at all the meaning of these precautionary measures, I would like to tell you, colleagues, that these are actually funds that have been blocked, which have been obtained or used for criminal acts, and in the event of failure of these cases, money is automatically returned to the persons subject to the investigation, with a view to dropping the safeguard measure. In essence, I have also heard a comment that this is almost a trade case. No, these funds are secured as a result of data that they refer to the subject of a crime. I end up with another case that is currently pending in front of the 2015 Specialized Court, with 13 defendants, a charge of leadership and involvement in an organized criminal group, of committing extortion, of secondary crimes, of blackmail by threatening to murder, of kidnapping, of committing fornication, of destroying foreign movable property, of trespassing into another's home by force. The volume of the case is 60 volumes. The witnesses in this case are 79, and the property faces are 29. Once again, the fate of these deeds that you put at risk by not settling the status of the magistrates will have severe consequences. Unfortunately, the losers will be Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u297	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Kyosev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u298	Very short line, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Kanazireva. The law shall enter into force three months after its promulgation, not seven days after its promulgation. Let's count this period a little longer than what you said, and I'll leave you to continue reading the cases. Thank you. [[Heckling]] Your line is short, Mr. Kosev, but you gave Mrs. Kanazireva three more minutes. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Kanazireva, colleagues, you, reading this, will not use the word memorial, this list of various cases, are actually helping to reveal the real mechanism of inquisition of specialized justice. What's going on? The prosecution is subjectively assessing that some set of criminal acts have the scars of an organized criminal group. That's what the D.A.'s doing. There may be signs of OCG, maybe there isn't. The D.A.'s office estimates it's an O.P.D. Once she thought it was an O.P.D., it was the Special Prosecutor's Office's jurisdiction, the Special Court, respectively. The case is about to begin. It's leaking. Seven years are these cases that you have been telling me since 2015. Seven years a group of citizens has or does not have OPG have been subjected to a permanent inquisition. Constantly various measures, detentions and so on, search, investigative actions. In parallel with this, colleagues, the proceedings before the Anti-Corruption Commission KKCONPI began, which imposes props, forbade, blocked property for seven years, colleagues. [[Heckling]] Finally, it is quite possible that the Special Court will still justify people, as it has justified not a few people, especially those I set out in my previous statement, about which it says that there is no composition of the act, but people have suffered harm. The proceedings in the CPCONPI shall continue independently of criminal proceedings. More repression, more years. Until when, guys? Until when? Let everything be done in front of the common courts with the common means of the criminal trial, not to create in a disguised form, as extraordinary justice has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u300	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Mr. Cholakov, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u301	Mrs. Kanazireva, I ask you very much, by answering now Mr. Slavov, to answer the question: if this is true, which he says that in individual cases prosecutors have exceeded the authority, conducted preliminary proceedings or pre-trial proceedings to use them as a bat, is this a problem of the PPC or the Law on the Judicial Authority? Could we, once again, ask the question, the structure, the legal person.........................is responsible for the fact that a separate prosecutor, for example, has decided to exceed his authority or not comply with them as they are under the Law? If there are any imperfections that allow this to happen, shouldn't we be looking for changes in the NPC and other procedural laws, rather than tearing down a structure, as we once said here on the same occasion that if someone commits a violation of commercial law through LTD, we will not close down the LTD as a legal figure we will charge the person. I ask you very much, come on from now on, every time we expose them to these delusions that the structure of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office or the Specialized Court is guilty of anything, and that if there are any violations, they are always personal. A prosecutor in the City Prosecutor's Office may also overstep his authority as a prosecutor in the Special Prosecutor's Office. Either way, it's not the structure's fault.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u302	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Now you have the floor for the duplicate, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u303	Dear Mr. Cholakov, several times in the Legal Committee I tried to explain to colleagues that in fact the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is used by the Specialized Court, is also used by the common courts. I have tried several times to explain that the fast and fair process depends on changes in the material and procedural law so as to overcome accumulated formalism, which in not one of the reports on Bulgaria is placed as an emphasis. I have tried several times to explain that by moving one case from one court to another, the trial will neither be faster nor fairer. On the contrary, moving these cases to the Sofia City Court there is an even bigger problem. They don't have halls there. A case is scheduled every six months. Was it this vessel, so their bat... We can't hear anything in particular. Only hollow, political phrases. Cases 2015 and 2016. Wait, colleagues, when they go to the Sofia City Court, will they become faster? [[Heckling]] They're gonna get faster. Is this your favorite court? Is that it? It's translucent. The target sees, you know? Nor are you so stupid, yet I say, nor are you so incompetent. For all of us, the goal is clear. Changing magistrates in cases and taking these cases not from this court, but from another court. There is inalienability with the introduction of your quota principle, of forced settlement in the 21st century. In a sufficiently clear and specific framework and in the Constitution you allow this from 20 judges only five to appoint there. And the other 15, what happens to their affairs? They're watching them. Have you heard in these cases how many defendants there are? Have you heard how many witnesses there are? Do you know how many procedural actions have taken place? It's the only thing you're downplaying is work, expertise. The purpose of these cases is to go to other magistrates. I will continue to present you with these cases until the end of today. I know you don't care. I know you don't care at all about the affairs or how they end up. There is an accepted order and this order is being executed because elections are coming and it should be quickly completed with this topic, as there will be early elections. Yesterday the Commission, today the second reading about something so important and important for Bulgaria. You can see from everywhere with your arguments. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u304	Mrs. Kanazireva, it's been a long time. There won't be an election anytime soon. He's in a hurry for something else. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u305	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, I'm going to be really brief because you've decided to close it down. Whatever arguments you have, especially with regard to organised crime, we have tried several times to explain to you that our proposals, which we have made between first and second readings, and have previously done them with a separate bill, concern the preservation of the structures that have been built, which have been built for years, colleagues. Because it's very easy to shut down and destroy, but it's hard to build. That's what I can tell. I think you're beginning to understand it. Look how many months it took you to create the functioning ministries that in some of them you can't even arrange to pay the salaries of appointed employees. Several times there has been absolutely false information about the number of acquittals. I would say that Bulgaria is one of the countries with a strong penal inclination, colleagues. You all know that. Because a moment ago Mr. Slavov said how they ended up with acquittal in these specialized courts the indictments submitted. First he said it was an inquisition, then he ended up with acquittal. The number of actually justified individuals in terms of organised crime, I say again, because there is enough time in terms of organised crime to gain experience and be able to make a real assessment of the results. In terms of corruption. The term is de facto not three years.. 2.3% of all persons. Because I am not talking about cases, but about individuals or 83 persons are justified in terms of organised crime since the establishment in early 2012 until the end of 2020. So, colleagues, you've decided, you'll do it. At least when you step out of this stands, don't say things that don't fit the facts.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u306	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Zaharieva, you have said several times about the experience gained by the specialized administration of justice in the fight against organised crime. I'm gonna have to ask you to comment on a speech I heard in the Legal Committee. I'm not a member of the Legal Committee, but I followed him electronically. A lady who is a judge in one of the two courts, I do not know exactly who she was, states the following: "Even if you throw us out of the system, organized criminal groups will gladly accept us. " How would you like to comment on that? They formally now, once these institutions are shut down, are they going to join the criminal groups or are they already there before that? Do you realize what kind of thinking we're talking about? I will then take into account efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u308	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Is there another line? Here you go, Mr. Gochev, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, on the issue of organised criminal groups and in what way there would be a transfusion, I just wish we could stop speculating on this statement that has been said. I think the woman who spoke was largely... Figured it out. We have already taken that statement out of context enough to keep chewing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u310	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. It was like a line to the line. Is there a third line? I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Zaharieva, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u311	Actually, I thank Mr. Gochev. Mr. Atanasov, if you had come, you could have been present, you might have been aware of the context and the emotions of this line. It is not at all about what is absolutely just one part of what she said, and you quoted. I don't know the judge, I don't know the lady, but under the emotions, in the form that in the transitional and closing orders we're about to reach, and the accumulated expertise that they almost have to be forced to leave the justice system and go and become lawyers, I personally understood it. I don't want to speak for her, but if you had come, I don't know her, but if you'd come to Legal, or you'd seen the whole debate, you probably wouldn't have asked me that question. You could have asked it to her personally if you had been present after having such a great interest, or your representatives of the Democratic Bulgaria, who were there, could have also asked the lady what she had in mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u312	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My statement relates to § 18 and what my colleague Balachev mentioned earlier. I would like to draw attention, however scarce the majority in the Chamber of importers, there is also the Minister of Justice. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 138, p. 6 The text says that the Prosecutor General issues written instructions and instructions regarding the activities of the Prosecutor's Office in the performance of its functions under art. Paragraph 136. Art. 5, art. Paragraph 136. 5 says he runs the Bureau of Protection under the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure. Do you think that the instructions regarding witness protection should be published on the prosecution's website, albeit within seven days? I really appeal for this to be reconsidered in this Chamber because there may be a situation in which we may be able to threaten the work of this body, including from excessive publicity. Of course, I would like to point out that the fixation in the person of the Attorney General in this case does not help us, because in time there will be another Attorney General and then there will be another Attorney General, and each one of them will want to be able to do his job in the best way possible for the public. Sometimes it really is too much publicity that might get in the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u314	I'll give Mrs. Yordanova the word before the lines, because maybe she can clarify.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let us recall that the forty-sixth National Assembly amended the legislation and the Bureau for the Protection of Persons in connection with criminal proceedings is no longer with the Attorney General, but is with the Minister of Justice. And in this capacity I can assure you that all instructions, instructions, interinstitutional agreements relating to his work in order to protect individuals, because it is not just about witnesses in different cases, are classified information with a sufficiently high level of protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u316	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u317	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry I'm wasting my time, but this is the second time I've taken the floor on the same question. Mrs. Kirova, I mean again, maybe you weren't in the gym. If these methodical indications of type.. I do not know on which issue they will be, contain data, facts and circumstances to be classified as state secret will be placed.. That is, only instructions that do not have a security mark will be published on the page. So it's all regulated in the Classified Information Protection Act, and there's no problem at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u318	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Is there another line? I can't see. Would you like a douche? Here you go, Mrs. Kirova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u319	Thank you for your clarification, Madam Secretary. Well, in that case, maybe it's a pass. I would like to point out that the amendment to art. 138, p. 6 was made by the Commission, not imported by the Ministry. Again, I appeal to rethink the text because if we have a drop in art. Paragraph 136. 5, in that case you just have to t. 6 drop out at all and completely. There is no need for instructions and instructions on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office in relation to the Bureau of Protection after it has been transferred to the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u320	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. I give the floor to Mr. Cholakov for a statement. Are there any other people out there? Not yet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u321	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We are currently facing a hypothesis of exercising the dictatorship of the majority. I didn't want to make a statement, because after each speech we only increase the pleasure of the majority by looking at the bright eyes, how they will exercise the power of mathematics, impose their will and become what they have said. If we make speeches, we do them for the record, not because we can change anything at the moment, because the protocol will give us the right to say, after not a very long time, did we tell you? And this will be the pleasure of the opposition today, which will rule over time again. A few things have been said that I cannot ignore because they somehow violate my inner vision, my personal idea of right and justice and which are very characteristic of the debate that we are actually having. Because it's a debate about revenge, it's about demand, it's not about structures, it's not about law. The colleague Petar Nikolov told you earlier, to say it myself: the hysteria against specialized justice in Bulgaria started when it went against the oligarchs in 2019. Many people were affected and they have the right to legal self-defense, instruments in which self-defense were defined political forces, some are no longer here, as they say, but others will come to their place and so on. Mr. Slavov said earlier: Can you imagine, there the Special Prosecutor's Office has become a bat because it has initiated pre-trial proceedings against..... and has named several names: Mr. Djankov, Mr. Traykov, Mr. Nenchev. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Slavov.]] Why shouldn't I, Mr. Slavov? I mean, there should be people against whom pretrial proceedings cannot be initiated? Tomorrow, if necessary, a pretrial proceedings will be initiated against Mrs. Yordanova. You, if you say that... [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, yes, of course you will have the right to an answer. You, if you say that it was wrong for certain ministers to have pre-trial proceedings, does that mean that further ministers would not be good to have pre-trial proceedings. Nobody's gonna be above the law, right?! The current ministers are future clients of the prosecution and there is no doubt about it, there is nothing wrong with it. No one here, nor the ministers, can be protected and immune to persecution. Something was also said that outraged my understanding of justice. Ms. Dani Kanazireva asked: when they go to Sofia City Court, will the cases become faster, will the production be faster. From this part of the hall was said: yes, they will. What does that mean, colleagues, that someone will put pressure on the judges there? I mean, is someone in the Sofia City Court gonna put pressure on judges on how to look at cases? Is that what it means?! Don't. The words give us away. Don't give yourself away. Besides, what you're saying isn't gonna happen. In conclusion, I would like to say one word with regard to prosecutors and judges from the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Special Court, because we somehow miss them, they are living people and will remain in this system, and they are worried. You're trying to shut down the structures in which they work, what's it called to fear them, and they shouldn't be afraid. The best protection of themselves is their professionalism. The only thing that can raise their dignity and authority the most is their conscience. And although you will shut down the structures in which they work, they will go somewhere else and continue these deeds, as you promise, will continue to watch them and finish them. I would turn to them and call them: colleagues, finish them quickly, show what quick and fair justice means, regardless of what structure you will work in from now on, because this is the biggest guarantee for you and that there will be a working judiciary in Bulgaria, which we all want. Let these colleagues shut down. The question is the judges and prosecutors we rely on very quickly and temporarily will finish what they started so that oligarchy can't have won. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u322	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Come in, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Cholakov, you provoked me. I realize that it may not be quite right for a person to talk about what he had personally experienced, but you said something that against some former ministers had been formed cases and there was nothing wrong. But they were justified! And here to tell you, I was personally accused for six years and charged in three criminal cases that ended at all the courts with an acquittal. Do you realize what a person, his family, his loved ones are going through if he is unjustly drawn to criminal responsibility? At the same time, however, there is sufficient public information about crimes, and serious crimes, from the high levels of power, and cases are not formed. That's what efficiency we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u324	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Georgiev, then Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u325	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Cholakov, you said that the Special Prosecutor's Office was visible when it started taking measures against the oligarchs, only it came out as follows: special measures against the uncomfortable oligarchs and fondling with a feather to the comfortable oligarchs. The oligarch of oligarchs in Bulgaria is known as rosefowl. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] . How did it happen that rosebuds were allowed to carry out the most criminal privatization in Bulgaria?! So what comes out of the bat against the uncomfortable oligarchs and covering up the likes of pink hair. Once again, GERB's first government had four ministers: the Minister of Finance for some time resided on its property, the Minister of Regional Development, the Minister of Environment who I miss the fourth. Four ministers. And you're saying that people's discontent is when special measures are taken. Yeah, to the awkward and covering up the pink-haired ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u326	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Balachev, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u327	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My line is to Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Cholakov, you have opened the curtain of something that is obviously not understood by colleagues who are importers and complements to this amendment and addition to the Law on the Judiciary. There was an opinion from this tribune that you see, by closing the cases or closing the Specialized Court and going to the so-called normal or ordinary court, they would all of a sudden go very quickly and thus fight crime from everywhere. Dear colleagues, the PPC is one for both specialised and normal justice. And it must be clear to you that with the closure of the Special Court cases will be seen again under the general rules of the PPC. So this argument obviously didn't hold up. Apart from that, I have to tell you that I'm afraid it's going to be the opposite that going to so-called normal courts, I don't know what name to give them, these cases will go on for not years, but decades. And I can quote you two of them: Ivan Slavkov, everyone knows him, former owner of Spartak, Varna; Galin Kostov, former judge, one 12 years, the other 11. So don't count on it, and if these are your arguments, Mr. Cholakov, this is not the argument to close the Special Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u328	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. [[National Representative Danny Kanazireva wants the floor for a reply.]] We're out of lines. There were five of you, I have to mix three. Two in the same group shouldn't. Mr. Cholakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u329	Thank you to my colleagues! Mr. Balachev, we appreciate your expertise and I would certainly like you to have the opportunity to further develop your thought because we are interested. We really need to reveal the thoughts of our colleagues and make it clear, again, we are doing it for the record. We do it so that one day we can say to them, "Did we tell you? " Mr. Georgiev, you will allow me not to take into account specific cases, because I am not that familiar, and it is not our job to take into account specific processes that have passed. GERB is not anyone's favorite party, I think, at the moment, including people who support you. [[Noise, lines and applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u330	Nobody!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u331	Don't take my word for it. GERB is not a favorite party of media tycoons, who currently clearly support the ruling majority. Mr. Atanasov, I'm really sorry about what happened to you. I mean, I feel sorry for all the people who get arrested and get thrown in jail like that, just for 24 hours at someone's pleasure. I'm sorry about what happened to you. And you as a career man and a professional should be aware and answer the question: by closing the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office will that stop being possible?! [[Noise and lines.]] You know, you and we know very well that in order not to be possible, other legal decisions are imposed, not closure of the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office. In conclusion, I would like to say again, colleagues, from now on, let us all give encouragement to the judges and prosecutors of the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Special Court because of their professionalism and their sense of dignity it is up to oligarchy not to win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u332	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Any other speeches? I won't. We close the discussion and move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposals not supported by the Commission, which are not supported by the Commission, first of all by the Parliamentary Representative Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 19. Vote 177 MPs: 61 against 116 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 20. Vote 180 MPs: 61, against 118, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 21. Vote 186 MPs: 64, against 121, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 22. Vote 179 MPs: 57 against 121, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 23 - also not supported by the Commission. Vote 189 MPs: 64 against 125, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on § 18 and 19 in the version of the Commission, a new § 20 in the version of the Commission and paragraphs 20, 21 and 23 by importer, which become respectively paragraphs 21, 22, 23 and 24. Please, voting mode. Vote 194 MPs: 131, against 63, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Replys: "Prevoting! "]] Revoting at the request of the GERB group, right, so I didn't see who asked for it?! Vote 187 MPs: 127 against 60 abstentions. The motion is accepted. I'll give you half an hour off, please be exact by 2:35. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u333	You have the floor, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under § 24, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 25. Under § 25, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Paragraph 25 shall be amended as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 164 the following amendments are made: 1. In para. 3 the words "Judge or Prosecutor" which shall be replaced by the person who shall. 2. In para. 6 the words "court or prosecutor" which are replaced by "person." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26. Under § 26, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27. Under § 27, there is a proposal of the MP Philip Popov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 169 para. 5 is amended as s (5) Upon dismissal from the office of administrative director and deputy to administrative manager, the persons at their request shall be returned to the pre-election position of a judge, prosecutor or investigator, or shall remain in office of a judge, prosecutor or investigator in a judicial authority in which they held the post of administrative head, respectively a deputy of an administrative head. Under § 28, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29. Under § 29, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 29 to be rejected." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30. Under § 30, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 30 to be rejected." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31. Proposal of the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs. A new § 31 is hereby created: (a) in art. 195, para. 4 the words "or an equal position" shall be replaced by the title of judge, prosecutor or investigator. (b) The former § 31 becomes § 32 and the other paragraphs shall be renumbered. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 32 with the following text: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 195, para. 4 the words "or an equal position" shall be replaced by the title of judge, prosecutor or investigator. Under § 31, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 31 to be rejected." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u335	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. I am opening the discussion on the paragraphs presented. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion and we're going to vote. First, we are voting on the unsupported proposals from the Commission. We are voting for the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs to be rejected § 24, not supported by the Commission. They voted 124 MPs: 22, against 102, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 25. They voted 134 MPs: for 25, against 109, there are no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 26. Vote 139 MPs: 27, against 111, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal from MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs to reject § 28. Vote 148 MPs: 30 against 118, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 29. Vote 148 MPs: for 31, against 117, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 30. Vote 151 MPs: for 31, against 120, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. And now we are going to vote on the following paragraphs anbloc: 24, 25 and 26 which become 25, 26 and 27 respectively by importer; 27, which becomes 28 by Commission version; 28, 29 and 30, which become 29, 30 and 31 by importer respectively; the new § 32 by Commission version; and 31, which becomes 33 by importer respectively. Vote 154 MPs: 125 against 29 abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. However, we have failed to vote on one of Mrs. Atanasova's proposals, and please correct this error of mine now under § 31 "the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for his dismissal. Vote 156 MPs: 29, against 126, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u336	Under § 32, there is a proposal from the MP Danny Canazireva: supposed to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 34. Under § 33, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: supposed to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 35. Proposal by the National Representative Philip Popov, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to create a new § 36. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 237 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, t. 2 words.............................................................................. 233, para. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, 2. In para. 2 words.............................................................................. 233, para. 1 "Species" shall be replaced by "Species" and "Species" shall be replaced by "Species" and "Species" shall be Under § 34, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 37. Under § 35 there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 38, i.e. 3 the words "finally" shall be deleted. Under § 36, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: supposed to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 40. Under § 38, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: supposed to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 41. Under § 39, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: seventh to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u337	I am opening a discussion on the so presented paragraphs of the Bill. I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. We close the discussion and move on to the vote first of the unsupported proposals. I put to the vote a motion by the MP Danny Kanazireva to reject § 32. Vote 149 MPs: 32, against 117, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 33. Vote 158 MPs: 36, against 121, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 34. Vote 161 MPs: 37 against 123, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 35. Vote 164 MPs: 37 against 122, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 36. Vote 164 MPs: 37 against 127, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 38. Vote 161 MPs: 34 against 123, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. Finally, from the unsupported proposals of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 39. They voted 163 MPs: 35 against 128, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the following paragraphs: 32 and 33 by importer, which become 34 and 35 respectively; a new § 36 by version of the Commission; and paragraphs 34, 35, 36, 37, 38 and 39 by importer, which become 37, 38, 39, 40, 41 and 42 respectively. Vote 154 MPs: 129 against 25 abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u338	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 40, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... With the entry into force of this Act, the Specialized Criminal Court, the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court, the Specialized Prosecution and the Appeals Specialized Prosecution are closed. Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: Paragraph 41 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Danny Kanazireva: In Paragraph 41, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 2 - 5 to drop out, in their place to create a new para. 2 and para. 3 containing the following content: (2) Within 14 days of the entry into force of the law, the Judges shall submit an application to the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council for reassignment to a district court, respectively, in an appeal court or request that they be reinstated to the post which they held prior to their appointment to the Specialized Criminal Court, respectively at the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court. (3) Within 30 days after the expiry of the term under para. 2 The College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council renames judges as from the entry into force of the law. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from MP Philip Popov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Slavov, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... (1) The Judges of the Specialized Criminal Court and the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court shall be reappointed under the terms and conditions of art. 194, para. 1. (2) Within 14 days of the promulgation of this law, the persons under para. 1 may submit an application to the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council in which they declare their wish to be reinstated to the post of Judge who had held before their appointment at the Specialized Criminal Court, respectively the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court. (3) Within 30 days of the expiry of the term under para. 2 The College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council shall adopt a decision to open positions of judges in courts corresponding to those closed at the Specialized Criminal Court and the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court, taking into account the level of workload of the court concerned. In one court, up to a quarter of the judges of the closed Specialized Criminal Court and up to a third of the judges of the closed Appeals Specialized Criminal Court are reappointed. (4) After the expiry of the term under para. 3 The College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council shall rename the judges, with effect from the entry into force of this law. (5) The decisions of the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council under para. 4 are subject to pre-execution.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u339	I suggest you submit the next paragraph as they are related. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u340	A proposal from MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Paragraph 42 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Danny Kanazireva. In § 42, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 2 - 5 to drop out, in their place to create a new para. 2 - 5 with the following content: (2) Within 14 days of the entry into force of the law, prosecutors shall submit an application to the Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council for reassignment to a district office, respectively in the Prosecutor's Office of Appeal, or shall declare their wish to be reinstated to the post they held prior to their appointment to the Special Prosecutor's Office, respectively in the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office. (3) Investigators from the Investigation Department of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office shall be reappointed to the investigating departments of the district prosecutors under the conditions and under the order of art. 194, para. 1. (4) Within 14 days of the entry into force of the law, investigators shall submit an application to the Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council for reassignment to the District Prosecutor's Office or shall request that they be reinstated to the post which they held prior to their appointment in the Investigation Department of the Special Prosecutor's Office. (5) Within 30 days after the expiry of the term under para. 2 The Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council renames prosecutors and investigators as from the entry into force of the law. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from MP Philip Popov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Prosecutors of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office and the Appeals Special Prosecutor's Office shall be reappointed under the conditions and under the order of art. 194, para. 1. (2) Within 14 days of the promulgation of this law, the persons under para. 1 may submit an application to the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council in which to state their wish to be reinstated to the office of prosecutor, which they held before their appointment in the Special Prosecutor's Office, respectively the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office. (3) Within 30 days of the expiry of the term under para. 2 The Prosecution College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall adopt a decision to open office of prosecutors in prosecutions relevant to the closed in the Specialized Prosecutor's Office and the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office. A prosecutor is reassigned to one third of the prosecutors from the closed Specialized Prosecutor's Office, respectively from the closed Appeal Specialized Prosecutor's Office. (4) Investigators from the Investigation Department of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office shall be re-appointed in the district investigation departments in the district prosecutions under the conditions and under the procedure of art. 194, para. 1. (5) Within 14 days of the promulgation of this law, the persons under para. 4 may submit an application to the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council in which to state their wish to be reinstated to the post of investigator who had occupied before their appointment in the Investigative Department of the Special Prosecutor's Office. (6) Within 30 days of the promulgation of this law, the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall adopt a decision to open the positions of investigators relevant to those closed in the Investigation Department of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office. In one investigative department are reassigned to one third of the investigators from the closed investigation department of the Special Prosecutor's Office. (7) After the expiry of the term under para. 3 and 6 Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council renames prosecutors and investigators as of the entry into force of this law. (8) The Prosecution College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall reassign, without a contest, the newly established junior investigators of the Special Prosecutor's Office, who, at the date of the entry into force of this Act, have not completed the training under art. 249, para. 1, t. 1 in the post of Junior Investigator, corresponding to the closed position in the investigating departments in the respective district prosecutors. (9) The Prosecution College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall appoint junior investigators to the Investigative Department of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office of the relevant positions in the district investigation departments in the respective district prosecutions. (10) The decisions of the Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council under para. 7, 8 and 9 are subject to pre-execution.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u341	Since it is truly logical, let the new § 46 present and stop there. [[The President and rapporteur Milen Mateev make specifics when microphones are switched off.]] Okay, then let's stop here and then we'll move on. [[The President and rapporteur Milen Mateev make specifics when microphones are switched off.]] Then present § 46 and then you will make the proposals. [[Relations from the National Representative Danny Kanazireva.]] We presented these, but since the new § 46 is in direct contact with the previous two... [[Relations from the National Representative Danny Kanazireva.]] You don't want to do it well. [[(Replies from]] If they insist, the opposition must always be respected properly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u342	One man insists, we're a whole group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u343	Well, nothing, let's get to § 45 included, § 46 later, to be sure what it's about. I open the discussion on the paragraphs so presented. I give the floor to Mrs. Kanazireva, and I hope it's on them this time, because the lists may be presented in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u344	Mr. Chairman, every single statement I made was on the texts of the Bill. [[(Replies from]] The deviation and political talk were on your part, colleagues, as in the Legal Commission without any specifics and factology.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u345	Let's go now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u346	I'll start on § 41. Mr. Chairman, I would like to speak on every single paragraph on which you have joined up to 45 so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u347	Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u348	Under § 41, colleagues, if by Tuesday, until the second reading in the Legal Committee, I had any doubts and still thought that perhaps you might have some arguments about what is happening today, the settlement of the status of the magistrates and the way in which you approach, have already firmly confirmed my conviction, namely that your only purpose is to replace the magistrates in the cases, which means that the cases will start from the beginning, will run out of limitation periods and real sentences will not be seen. Even the originally introduced version of the Minister of Justice was far more acceptable than the one subsequently introduced by the so-called Change. Gentlemen ruling, I don't know what century you think we live in, but the time of forced settlement has long passed. You are introducing an unacceptable quota principle, restricting the magistrates' right to state their wish and to be reassigned as possible to the same judicial area. Gentlemen in charge, Art. 194, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary very well settles the hypothesis of closing a court. You are rearranging it to achieve another effect, and there is no point in rearranging the text of art. 194. By entering these quotas, you are also in direct violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and this will become clear very soon. Madam Minister, I can't explain, given that the Sofia City Court and the Sofia Court of Appeal are the successors of everything, both of the assets and of the liabilities of the Specialized Criminal Court, respectively, and of the appeal of such a matter, why is the problem only with the judges? I did my best to check it out. To date, the openings in the Sofia City Court for judges are about 30, 30.. 33 and in Specials are 20, that is, without a problem these people can start at the Sofia City Court. It's the same in the polling office, there's seven seats in the penal wards, which means there's only three missing, since the judges are 10. There is no way that this does not lead to the reasoned conclusion, namely that the objectives of replacing magistrates in these symbolic and extremely heavy and important cases with huge, repeated, material interest. If this is not the case, you had a text. 194, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary, which governs the hypothesis of closing a court and you just had to apply it. Apart from that, colleagues, the status of magistrates directly reflects on the course of cases. Of course, there will be legal appeals to the decisions of the SJC, there will be a request to declare unconstitutionality and the Constitutional Court, there will be problems in the assembly of the Chambers, there will be a number of other organisational problems. Several times I hear from you the words these people had to have a conscience and pursue their affairs. Is that what you're counting on? How did you honor these people to rely on their conscience? You're trying to stop them from doing their job in any way you can. Only with this text, which deliberately, because it is not out of incompetence, you know that this text exhales, you deliberately reach for them on the status of judges. This is the only reason why these people can take a reprieve tomorrow because of the repression they've been practicing to them. And that is not so important to me, it is important to me that in fact your goal is the cases that I repeat at the moment and I will continue to quote to the end of today's sitting how serious and difficult they are. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u349	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Are there any lines to that statement? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Kanazireva, you urged us to speak expertly, but your speech was not particularly so because there were a lot of inaccuracies in it. [[Reply by MP Danny Kanazireva.]] Indeed, at least three. I'm going to comment on them now. First of all, a reprisal for the repression of God, Mrs. Kanazireva, open the Code of Criminal Procedure, there are explicitly listed the hypotheses in which a judge may recuse himself and you know it well. This is political talk here. That way. Article 194 of the Law on the Judicial Authority.. Second inaccuracies in your speech does not provide for the possibility for judges to indicate where they want to be reassigned. Not at all! And the representative of the Supreme Judicial Council at the Commission meeting made it very clear to you. That way. What displacement are we talking about, and how exactly are we going to change the magistrates? As you have said several times, there is a continuity of the composition, the cases that have begun will continue to be seen by the same court. So we these judges objectively do not have the opportunity to remove them from the composition which examines the relevant case files. And what about the pending cases that will be dealt with on the ground again raises the question: Are you questioning the competence and integrity of these judges who are lawmakers on the ground?! That's what's coming out. Finally, the attitude we have shown to the magistrates of the closed specialized court and prosecution. Why should he have special treatment for them? Why do you say that, as the Bill provides that they will retain their rank, retain their remuneration and the only body that will have the opportunity to say which one to go, this will be the SJC and not the importer of the Bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u351	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Zaharieva, you for a line, but it wouldn't be a line, would it? Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u352	Mrs. Kanazireva, please stop speaking politically that we are not in the National Assembly?! Start talking like we're maybe in a first or second law class, or I don't know, in some kind of working group. Please don't speak politically any more than this tribune. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u353	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Third line, Mr. Balachev, come in. You have caused so much dissent in your own group, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u354	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'll address my colleague Kanazireva. I accuse you of having opened the subject of what will happen to the magistrates who are currently working in the Specialized Investigation, in the Specialized Prosecutor's Office and in the Specialized Court, you have not stated why and what they actually adopted just now in § 32 regarding an amendment to this paragraph and to the Law on the Judiciary, namely that in art. 195, para. 4 the words "or an equal position" shall be replaced by the title of judge, prosecutor or investigator. Dear colleagues, what does that mean? This means that the Supreme Judicial Council, whoever it is, could, if it were to go that way, unfortunately, things would go that way, that the Specialized Court, the Prosecutor's Office and the investigation would be closed, he could punish, I would say, the naughty or those who think they are not loyal enough to the new authority or to any authority, and instead of assigning them to an equal position, simply appoint them as an investigator. That is, if years ago you were in the National Investigation Service, which was ranked much higher than any county investigation service, then you could now be punished and sent to Kyustendil to the District Attorney's Office to be there, that you were not listening properly at the time or did search for Marinella or anyone else and so on. Similarly, prosecutors who also feel that they are uncomfortable and judges could be dealt with in the same way. I mean, I'm sorry, but it's a way to be racketeered or vendetta. If we're talking about a bat at all, then the bat, honourable colleagues, in relation to these judges, prosecutors and investigators, you're making it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u355	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. You have the floor for the back, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u356	Mr. Balachev, I will not agree with you, because the bat is not really for them, but for the cases that are there. That's all they care about, nothing else. Mr. Ivanov, first of all, the closure of the Specialized Court and Prosecutor's Office is a political act. From your coalition, I did not hear an expert statement with one figure to justify your assumption. You're only turning around in a bewitched circle, not knowing how to make this bill so messed up that then really none of these cases will see a real verdict. Mr. Ivanov, I don't know how purely legal I don't think and explain to you, I really sometimes feel that with colleagues first and second year students we talk, but any judge can make a standoff in one case. The circus, the humiliation you've subjected these magistrates, is sufficient reason for them to do so. Once again, you were the people who swore on every television broadcast and every show that you would arrange for their status so that you wouldn't risk your cases. How will you keep the same compositions? In this context, that will not happen. Mr. Ivanov, we will talk in a few months again, but you will limit and circumvent a judicial authority whose powers are prescribed in the Constitution and really introduce a quota principle, this will be the basis for the deeds of all these magistrates, during which time the cases will stand on logs, and I am sure of the ruling of the Constitutional Court in this direction. To none of my speeches and the questions raised by this tribune, neither in the Legal Commission nor here, you have given any adequate answers. It's all clichés and empty talk. It's a political order, not a judicial reform! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u357	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Is there any other statements, Mr. Slavov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! Indeed, today we are witnessing a special state of consciousness. We are supposed to be in this Chamber to vote at second reading the Bill that is before us, however, we are obviously reading different texts. Obviously, some of us have not even read the reasons, where very specifically with figures, with reference to the Special Prosecutor's Office's reports, reports of the Special Court, with a very clear reference to the number of cases examined, number of measures examined, number of cases for the SRS, all these statistics have been delivered and we continue to hear in every statement that there are no figures, no statistics, no facts, and we are just talking somehow political. Yes, this is a political conversation in the first place, colleagues, because it affects the rights of Bulgarian citizens because it affects each and every one of us to stop the arbitrariness that we have observed so far at the so-called special justice. Now specifically on the lyrics. Not only are we not interning, we do not prevent the magistrates from exercising their duties, but I have deliberately used the word interning, because this has been heard in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and we do the exact opposite, colleagues, we ensure that these judges, prosecutors and investigators continue to carry out their activities as magistrates, will complete the cases in which they are judges, and we create guarantees for this. Moreover, we guarantee that a large part of them will remain precisely in Sofia. We guarantee that they will retain their rank, even retain their remuneration, nothing that they will pass to another level where their colleagues are likely to receive lower remuneration. This is all in the Bill, and please read the texts. Since, when adopting the text of § 45 in the Committee on Legal Affairs of the New § 45, there is an alleged inaccurateness in para. 6 of § 45 as regards investigators, I shall make an editorial proposal in para. 6 of § 45 the words of the promulgation of this law shall be replaced by the words of the expiry of the term under para. 2 "So that there is a consistency with the time limits which are also under para. 3 of the same member with regard to prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u359	Thank you, Professor Slavov. Are there any lines to Atanas Slavov? I won't. Ekaterina Zaharieva for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will speak only once, because both provisions are mirrored one is for judges in specialized courts and the other is specialized prosecutors. Colleagues, today all day, when you were trying to explain at all how we do not talk about the subject, each time you pointed out two reasons. One is that the judges and prosecutors and the accumulated expertise in these bodies, their status is absolutely settled. The second is that all the cases will continue and there is no problem of statute of limitations, delays in cases, avoidance of justice and so on. The second part will be dealt with shortly when we get to the paragraph of how you arrange the continuation of cases and what you did between first and second reading de facto. Now on the first subject. On the first topic in the text you adopted after the adoption in principle of proposals made by colleagues, including by the ruling coalition, such as colleague Popov, who was quite close to Mrs. Kanazireva's proposal, you made some kind of mouse-mash. On the one hand, some attempt was made in the text of the importer to introduce some criteria on which the Supreme Judicial Council, and both colleges would rather reassign judges and prosecutors. In what you will accept in a moment, you introduce a criterion, on a proposal, by the way, exactly to you, Mr. Slavov for service, which is a good criterion, if I must be honest and at the same time enter a quota of one quarter and one third, whether it is districtd, whether it is a court of appeal, depending on this and respectively for the prosecutions, mirrored. So how do I ask, the burden criterion corresponds to a quota? What if the workload of the court in which they have applied requires a larger quota than this one quarter or one third?? What will the judge or prosecutor's college do then? The two things fight, they question their quota and accordingly the burden criterion. We tried to explain it to you in the Legal Commission, of course, we weren't heard. The other thing that contradicts your repeating all the time that everything is settled with the status is the fact that you are creating a special order. This order is found in the Law, in the law in force and other times the bodies of the judiciary are closed. 194. You're also creating a special order in the last subparagraph of these two paragraphs -- the fifth, if I'm not mistaken -- I'm already confused about what's going on there, I think para. 5. You de facto do not understand that when a judge or prosecutor, he is also a person, he has a family, he has a private life and has settled in some city. Yeah, if he was brought back to the city he lived in before that, maybe it wouldn't be so great the drama and the inconvenience for him and his family. However, if it is reassigned to a locality in a district court or a prosecutor in which there is no connection, it is very likely that he will not want to take this place and perhaps leave the judiciary. For this reason, the introduction of pre-execution, and it is different from what is in the Law, again I say: and in the current law there is a text. 36, if I'm not mistaken, who says decisions don't stop Plenum's execution unless the court orders otherwise. Isn't that right? Why did there have to be one text that the transfer order came into effect immediately? This does not stop, of course, the right to appeal against these judges and prosecutors, only if they refuse to intervene, it will be a basis for their dismissal from the system because they will not fulfil their commitments. So, colleagues, they will have to mourn, ask the court to suspend the order and make it even more difficult for the unclear situation that you are creating with the Transitional and Final Rules for both the judges and the prosecutors and the cases. So everything you promise is settled, in fact not only is not settled, it is damaged by the texts even of the importer himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u361	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. A line from Danny Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u362	Mrs. Zaharieva, let me disagree with you that they do not understand. Not only do they understand very well, but this is also directly intended by this provision. I never received an answer, given that the defendants and high-level corruption cases are being reorganized go to the Sofia City Court. The cases under Chapter I of the special part of the Penal Code also go to the Sofia City Court. Apart from that, these cases should be completed by the Sofia City Court, respectively the Sofia Court of Appeal, the cases of the European Prosecutor's Office's competence also go to the Sofia City Court, respectively the Court of Appeal. Given that so many additional cases will already be given to the Sofia City Court and will increase its workload, given that there are 30 vacancies in the Sofia City Court and seven in the criminal chambers of the Court of Appeal, why 20 judges are not transferred there and think of all kinds of ways to be sent around the country and quotas, because simply the purpose is not judicial reform, but the replacement of magistrates in these cases. I don't know if there's anyone who doesn't understand the purpose of this bill? So, Mrs. Zaharieva, they know exactly what they're doing. Don't think they're either incompetent or stupid. They've been spinning around for a long time and they've come up with these quotas to replace the magistrates. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u363	Here you are, Associate Professor Slavov, for a line and Miroslav Ivanov for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, in fact, if you read the text in art. 194 of the Law on the Judiciary, you will see that there is nothing guaranteeing a magistrate, a judge in which court will go when the court in which he is a judge is closed. But there's no guarantee. That is, in the current general order, the SJC could decide the judge's college to send the magistrate to the other side of Bulgaria. With the creation of quotas we have tried to give the SJC an opportunity in judgment, not accidentally introduced a burden criterion, in the assessment part, a large part of these magistrates are likely to remain in Sofia. That is the point of this proposal. It's setting some kind of standard. Whether the SJC will comply with this standard, we do not know that we have doubts about this composition of the SJC, has proven enough with its decisions what things it can create. But since you asked the question of my proposal to take into account the workload. What if you see by importer the text, there is, on the one hand, a criterion in § 41, para. 5 there are several criteria which the Ministry of Justice had provided for these criteria to be announced in advance, to include a final comprehensive assessment of the attestation, duration of the internship in the court system, general legal internship, previous taking up a judge's position and so on, as well as in para. 2 there is a reassignment in view of the degree of workload of their penal wards. That is to say, adding the degree of workload to the Commission's general proposal is adherence to the importer's text, provided that the remaining criteria have lapsed. So let us not speculate on what is the purpose of the importers of the proposal. The aim is for magistrates, their status to be preserved and they to continue to perform their function. If someone decides to leave the system as a magistrate, it is his right, but he must also bear his professional responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u365	Thank you, Professor Slavov. And now Miroslav Ivanov for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u366	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, Mrs. Zaharieva, I think I should clarify something, namely that the free to date state figures in the courts cannot be occupied by the magistrates of the specialized courts prosecutors. [[Reply.]] Yeah, and to you. [[Reply.]] They can't be busy, so these magistrates will be exposed to new state numbers. There are 19 or 20 judges in the Specialized Court, if I am not mistaken, and 9 or 10 in the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court. In the case of quotas laid down, purely life logic fully objectively assumes that it is reasonably staked. Why? For the works, I say again, which to this day are formed, they shall continue to be seen by the same formations. And indeed some of the defendants remain in the Sofia City Court, but much of the cases that have been dealt with and come to justice... Ms. Zaharieva, thank you for your attention and for your collegiate attitude, just an extremely high level of education you have shown, extremely high. Thank you. So much of the cases will be viewed across the country and is completely resonant as the number of allowances at stake, so I don't see why the objections are. Not all cases will be dealt with by the Sofia City Court, respectively this quota is completely objective and justified. And again, when speculation is being made about how certain cases would get messed up and sink, tell us what these cases are? Say it at last. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u367	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u368	Mr. Chairman, I have a first procedure for you, and then I'm gonna do a douche bag.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u369	The opposite should be by the book.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u370	I want to do the procedure first. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u371	Whatever you think, come on in. [[Radio and applause by.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u372	Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u373	Mrs. Zaharieva, in principle, we must first complete the entire procedure, which began with the speech and ended with the duplicate. Then the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u374	All right, Mr. Chairman, I'll do the back. I'll start with Mrs. Kanazireva's line. Mrs. Kanazireva, I'm not sure if they realize what they're doing and the lines I got after you, so I still don't think your statement convinced me of that. I'll start with Mr. Slavov. As soon as it's in art. 194, do you obviously want to reassign all judges and prosecutors in Sofia City or in all Sofia courts, but leave them in art. 194. Break the law. To me, really, honestly, the whole point of what you've told me is lost. Yes, of course there is this criterion, it is one because I have read the text of an importer several times, including what you have accepted on the Legal Committee several times. Yeah, that's one of the criteria, along with a lot of others, and I happen to say it was better because there was no quota, you missed. And I'm not the one who's speculating. You are when you don't read everything and you don't say everything. Yes, there is this criterion there, without however a very important limitation, and it is quotas, a maximum number of judges, no matter how busy you found that there is also a need for new judges and prosecutors, given the new cases that you will be looking at on trial, you have placed a quota. You can't do any more than that. I am therefore convinced that you realize that you are fighting this criterion that you have introduced and the introduction of quotas. Yeah, with the importer's text, no, because there were no quotas, Mr. Slavov. And I think so, Mrs. Kanazireva, they understand me. Regarding Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov, I don't know how many free numbers there are, and you didn't make the line to me, but to Mrs. Kanazireva, so I didn't consider it necessary to listen to you because I don't know what to answer because you replicated the replicator and didn't disrespect you. I will now proceed to the procedure, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is when a replicator replicates a replicator, not a voicer, to interrupt it. I think it is also a matter of respect not to comment on the speeches. We don't comment all the time, Mr. Ivanov. I don't know what this obsession with me is, but every time I go out, you come out and you comment on my competence or incompetence and upbringing or not. That's what my friends, my family do. You're not one of them. Stick to what you're saying, I'll keep doing it. Mr. Chairman, make a note when inappropriate comments are made by speakers. That's the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u375	Thank you. I will make a remark not within the meaning of the Rules, but I will remind you rather, and I also remind you that there will be no overly noisy discussions from a place that will make it difficult for the speaker in the stands. Mrs. Kanazireva, you are for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u376	Paragraph 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u377	I'm recording you. Now it is recorded for speech Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u378	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! The colleagues who spoke before me were many, and they touched on the subject very extensively. I will address § 41 and the next ones that concern, in that order in which you reported them. I believe that they do contain extremely discriminatory conditions as mutually exclusive provisions. On the one hand, in para. 1 of the paragraph shall be stated that the status of magistrates shall be governed according to art. 174 of the Law on the Judiciary, namely reassigning themselves without a competition, and the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council reveals the relevant positions in another equal body of the judiciary. On the other hand, you introduce para. 3 and the quota principle for the election of judges. Notice, § 44, para. 3 You are reassigning to one court up to a quarter of the judges from the closed Specialized Criminal Court and up to a third of the judges from the closed Appeals Specialized Criminal Court. In § 45, para. 3 You say in a prosecutor's office are reassigned to one third of the prosecutors from the closed Specialized Prosecutor's Office, respectively the closed Appeal Specialized Prosecutor's Office. The quarter here is off. And in the same § 45, but in para. 4 You say the investigators of the Investigative Department of the Special Prosecutor's Office are reappointed in the district investigation departments, in the district prosecutions under the conditions and under the order of art. 194, para. 1. My fellow Members, this is what I was talking about at the very beginning of my speech, namely the different standards for judges, prosecutors and investigators, the people of the judiciary. That's not normal! I have a question to the Minister of Justice and to Mr. Slavov as an importer and maintaining the quota principle: first of all, why are you introducing this quota principle, when for investigators and prosecutors, it is not at all for investigators? Article 194 of the Judicial Law is absolutely clear. 1 and para. 2, regulates that the SJC makes its choice, there is a volition and so on and it is not a problem at all for this to happen. Why is it necessary to introduce an unconstitutional requirement that suggests that there may be an appeal? That's exactly why! That's what my colleagues are talking about. That's what makes you think you're running an errand. Don't be mad at me for saying that from the stands. That's what it feels like, you know? If you really wanted to do it right, you would have done it according to art. 194, para. 1 of the Law. But alas, I want an answer from this tribune: why are you doing it as an importer? Who needs this? Only so that the norm is unconstitutional so that all proceedings will fail and so on or those that have been ordered. Next, why are you lowering them? Why does colleague Philip Popov's proposal, which was very reasonable, support it and still support it for an equal position? Honourable Members, these judges from the Specialized Criminal Court and from the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court and prosecutors from the Special Prosecutor's Office are not second-hand judges other than others. How can the Law on the Judiciary apply in one way, and for other judges, in another way, to prosecutors in one way, to other investigators in a third way? That's the problem. I think he's really serious. That's what I said at the very beginning that I'm supporting right now. For me, this text is unconstitutional, in violation of absolutely all rights of these people. You have time, think about it, take a break, discuss the texts, make them work and really believe that both we and the people are doing it for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u379	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. The line from Atanas Slavov, and please refrain from qualifying as the one you are ordered.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u380	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, colleagues! My line is precisely that we retain the status of these magistrates. What is their professionalism, what things they have allowed in the exercise of their magistrate's function, to judge the Inspectorate and the SJC. For example, one of the current judges in the Specialized Criminal Court was the prosecutor who requested the wiretapping of hundreds of people during the 2020 protests, and for a reward for good service under the flags he became a judge at the Special Criminal Court. But that is the career development of some of these magistrates. But in terms of their status. We have proposed and the Commission has accepted their rank to be retained, regardless of which level they return to the judiciary and their remuneration to be retained, and for all it is clear that it is higher than the remuneration of all other magistrates at that level of the judiciary. Is this a violation of their status, their prestige, their ability to perform their duties, maintain rank, maintain remuneration, even at the risk of causing discontent in the relevant judicial authority where they go, because there their colleagues for the same work will receive lower remuneration? Is this a violation of the status and opportunities for professional and career development of these magistrates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u381	Thank you, Professor Slavov. Mrs. Kanazireva, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u382	Mrs. Alexandrova, I am making the line to you because I do not agree to some extent with the created inequality of the magistrates. Make it easy for me to say Mr. Slavov before I did. Colleagues, not only in violation of the Constitution you set quotas, Mr. Slavov! But in the Bill, you're putting an inequality. I ask you: in one court are reassigned to one quarter of the Board of Appeal and to one third of the Specialized Court of Appeal. I mean, there's not even a level playing field between the Specialized Court and the Court of Appeal. Why a quarter of the district level, and a third of the district level? Even their quotas aren't even equal? Do you understand the extent to which you see the purpose you are pursuing with this bill? Perhaps because the judges in the Court of Appeal are less, so less appoint, so that they do not suddenly risk a case falling into their hands? And in the Specialized Court because there are more, so you'll reassign more. Why do you even have an inequality between the Specialized First-Instant and the Appeals? One quarter, one quarter, one third! I'm sure the importers can't answer me because they haven't written a single text, because some lawyers with dozens of cases... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u383	Mrs. Kanazireva, don't do this!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u384	...and they wrote them because they were doing political and court orders. That's why you can't answer me. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u385	Mrs. Kanazireva, let's keep the good tone of the discussion. [[(Replications between MP Dani Canazireva and MPs from the BSP for Bulgaria]] Don't answer me like that! I cannot be responsible for the speeches of my fellow Members, but I simply call for good tone to be observed, please! Mr. Dimitrov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u386	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mrs. Alexandrova, I don't know why you all keep telling me how some cases should be looked at by other judges, by the judges, and so on? The Law clearly states that the cases will be seen by those judges who started them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u387	What if they recuse themselves? What if they recuse themselves?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u388	So when they do, they can take a stand now. If they recuse themselves, they can now. Look, a judge can get one, and now a reprieve is all on his conscience. If you've decided that in cases where you're interested and some judges are going to recuse themselves, then that's a whole other matter. But you can't despise that judges are dishonest, and for that reason, because of their hot spot, they're going to take a stand! No, judges in the Specialized Court are conscientious judges who will look at their cases under the Law and will not give a reprieve to keep their place.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u389	We'll see.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u390	So you're not right at all! And the new cases, which will eventually be initiated in case files and pre-trial proceedings, will go to a judge who distributes to them on the random principle the system itself, and it is not the white hacker that is made, but the judicial system that it is. So there is no problem with cases. There is no option for anyone to be able to predict which case will be viewed by whom, how it will be viewed and so on. So don't manipulate and abuse these things. So, if you go in and you come in, I can be supported by the only colleague who is present in this court here from this room, who can support me by telling you that the real cases that are being watched are cases of organised crime, and for whatever it is, and there is no real danger at all. So don't abuse this thing. That's what we've been hearing all day when it's something that's absolutely impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u391	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. For the doppelganger, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u392	Dear colleague Dimitrov, I am not concerned about the composition of the court and my speech was not in this direction.....................you are mistaken, clearly to my colleague Kanazireva to make a reply. Doesn't matter, I didn't comment on the indifference of the judges or integrity or any of it. I asked Mr. Slavov, who, however, notice, did not give me such an answer, to tell me what imposes the introduction of this quota principle and it is quite different for all different types of judges, prosecutors and investigators. It cannot be justified. He cannot, honourable people look at us and Bulgarian citizens because there is no legal basis. It won't, because it's unconstitutional and it's custom-made. Therefore, it cannot be justified.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u393	Not at all, not at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u394	And basically, yeah. I wanted to say this: the Minister cannot give me an answer to this either. You didn't give it to me on the Legal Committee either. However, honourable Members, the proposed legislative decisions that you are making, namely for this quota principle and for the abolition of the equal position of office, is extremely important for me and for the people, of course, because it affects people, is a political self-harassment related to direct intervention in the judiciary and the judiciary. I'm pretty sure this is total interference with the justice system. As an example, I will immediately give you the decision to close the military courts where the provision of art. 194, para. One, honourable colleagues of the DB! Look, I understand your idea, I understand everything that's going on, I hope the people and the citizens understand it. I cannot assume that you are criticising failure to deal with the policies in the judiciary, the prosecution, the investigation and so on, are not doing their job, but you are interfering directly with the judiciary. I just don't understand what that is, and notice, not a single lawyer colleague in these paragraphs got up to speak. Do you ask them why? And our colleagues from.. Continue the Change.. There is such a people............................. and from BSP and from DPS why are they ashamed............................................................... Because Mr. Popov's proposal was very reasonable, supported by all fellow lawyers who understand the topic and are interested. It's pathetic, it's really pathetic and sad. Unfortunately, yes, so much talk, but the fact is the same. Very soon people will show it to you, dear colleagues, to know........................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u395	The next speech is from Peter Petrov. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will take account of the new § 44, and I cannot agree with some of the previous speakers with the special requirements created there, which aim to circumvent the standard order in accordance with art. 194, para. One by which the magistrates are reassigned. I guess it's clear to everyone that the idea of bypassing the order of art. 194, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary is simply to sanction these magistrates for the results of their activities, which obviously did not like the ruling majority in this Chamber. First of all, we transfer these legislative changes the ball to the Supreme Judicial Council and say: deal with these judges. Wherever you want, appoint them there, but we will give you a nice piece of paper on a one-way principle where you want or not, you have to reassign them and give them one term. I also asked the Legal Commission what was happening when this Supreme Judicial Council, which, on the far right, announced that they did not trust him, but nevertheless with these legislative changes, gave him the ball transfer within a 30-day period to decide what happens if he does not make a decision within this 30-day period, as I suspect and have some vague suspicions. What will they do, first of all, these judges, where they will be reassigned and if they apply for reassigned, respectively in the preliminary execution, will they be able to appeal, will they have a legal interest to appeal to the court or will the court tell them: but what is your legal interest, you have applied for reassigned to the relevant judicial district at the other end of Bulgaria, for example? What happens to their salaries if the Supreme Judicial Council does not take this decision within 30 days? The Supreme Judicial Council says: "Yes, we do not care, get better, we transfer the hot potato to you and you make this decision. " And last but not least, other MPs here said they didn't open a word about the cases. Okay, these judges, if they don't take office in the cases in which you have now changed the prosecution, when it began to be the same formation, what if they didn't take office in this case, do you know what happens to it?! The same thing that happened to the case that I was waiting for less than two hours ago! What happens to the statute of limitations when you wait? Is this your reform?! When is this case going to start if this judge doesn't take office? He's gonna have to start over and nobody says it here, nobody cares. No one has studied how many practitioners there are in this Chamber to understand that when these judges are not reassigned in this 30-day period, the cases they deal with and in which they are under art. 258 of the Penal Code has a principle of irrevocability of the formation, they cannot continue them and these cases will wait. The deadlines will be waiting. There are measures on them for non-violence, limitation periods are running, and, if justified, the benefits will therefore be higher for unlawful prosecutions. All of this will happen not to the fullest extent, but it will happen precisely with this created quota principle, which many people have previously said before me that it is discriminatory and unconstitutional. And another thing, colleagues who propose this principle, someone mentioned that the workload of the court would be taken into account. Yes, I raised it as a question in the Legal Commission and, accordingly, it was passed by the ruling coalition, but they may not understand what my idea is. This is the workload of the relevant criminal department of the relevant court because there are some qualified judges with 10 and plus years of internship in criminal cases and should, when rename them, not look at the quota principle, but look at the workload of the relevant criminal ward where they can be reassigned in order to have efficiency and speedy resolve cases there. There is another slight feature, which again none of you, colleagues who are proposing these legislative changes, was only slightly affected just a moment ago. With the changes we are making, a very large part of the crimes will not all be investigated and considered in the Sofia City Court as a first instance and accordingly the workload of this court will increase. Has anyone said so far will there be a need for qualified criminal judges, say, from the Specialized Court to be appointed, so that they can deal with both those cases that you will transfer there before the opening of the judicial investigation, again I make this remark, and the new ones that will be examined and investigated by the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, and will be dealt with in the criminal department of the Sofia City Court?! It is there that judges will be required, but you are introducing a quota principle, unfortunately, a quarter and a third of the Appeals Specialized Court, which will prevent us. It is not right, colleagues, this and I personally will not support such displacement of judges of the state, at least inappropriate with their professional qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u397	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. A line from Danny Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u398	Dear Mr. Petrov, I'm also making a line to you because they're very well aware of what they're doing. I do not know if you have seen that, between first and second readings, it is no coincidence that the cases of the Specialized Criminal Court, on which the judicial investigation has not been initiated, were changed not at the hearing, but sent to the court. This petty change at first glance is a legal matter and an appeal, you know what it really means? Another bunch of cases have settled and settled! That is why I have reacted to the Legal Committee that people in conflict of interest leading cases there cannot defend and propose changes to this bill. Why, Madam Minister, did you agree with your proposal that was in line with the constant case-law of the ICC, and you know very well that the principle of intransigence of the court begins at the hearing and not by the judicial investigation, why do you agree to replace this, by the way?! In this way, hundreds more cases are fucked, that's exactly what's happening. That's exactly what's happening! Read in the practice of the ICC how long it has been applicable and since when compliance with the principle of continuity of the formation of the court is required, and it is constant from the hearing. There are practitioners here, here is Mr. Petrov too, let him answer you. A number of questions concerning the existence or absence of procedural infringements shall be dealt with at this hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u399	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Colleagues, I remind you that the Members of the National Assembly owe respect to each other, so I appeal again: statements of the kind of which have been negotiated and settled are not eligible, both for Members of the National Assembly and for third parties. It's not right, and that's why I appeal to good manners. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Petrov, I have two remarks to your speech, which I disagree with. First of all, in terms of statute of limitations. You're a criminal lawyer, and you know exactly what the statute of limitations are, and the minimum is 15 years. They could be 17, 20, 22.5 years for the worst crimes. So if in 15 years a production cannot end, then the fault will not be in the legislator, but will be somewhere else. Secondly, with regard to what you said, the workload of the criminal wards should be taken into account. This is also not particularly legally valid in so far as the Department does not exist as a legal term and is not regulated as such in the Law on the Judiciary. Where a magistrate, a judge in the case is appointed to a court, he shall be appointed as a judge in a court of law and shall not be appointed as a judge in a criminal ward or as a judge in a commercial chamber. He is appointed as judge in a court and the General Assembly of this court decides which department to send him to and whether to look at civil cases or to look at criminal cases, colleague Petrov. Here the legislator can no longer influence this process, because in reality it will very much enter the independence of the judiciary. This will remain fully within the competences of the Judicial Authority Act, the SJC and then in the competences of the general meetings of the receiving courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u401	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u402	I'll start backwards, colleague Ivanov. There's a criminal ward in Sofia City Court, commercial, civil. If you'd listened to me carefully, you'd have heard that I said to take into account the workload of the ward and not to have the judge assigned to it. Just to take into account how many crimes are being dealt with and whether there is a need for more judges to be appointed to this court, and I didn't say in this department. With regard to colleague Kanazireva, if memory serves, § 49 regulates the change made between first and second readings, where it is said that if the judicial investigation is not initiated, the case can be dealt with in another Chamber. I really wanted to talk about it then. However, I would merely suggest that this is absolutely unlawful, as the hearing is a fundamental hearing in the criminal trial, at its beginning, in which the court forms an internal subjective belief, where eight different issues are addressed, including measures, evidence requests are made at this stage, and in fact they must be exhausted at this stage, requests for procedural infringements are made, for which the case may be returned to the prosecution, and when the court takes its subjective decision expressed in one order, you may appeal to the above court, in this case the Court of Appeal specialised. You have two acts that have entered into force, in which with these changes, which have been made between first and second readings, the case You have revealed your cards to the prosecution, but another judge takes another decision of his own on the inside, and you may again appeal it to the Appeals Court, where you will again have two further acts that have entered into force. And what do you get?! You have two acts by the Special Court, you have two legal acts by the GCC and the Appeals, which may be radically different, but since they are legal, they have entered into force and I do not know if you are a lawyer, what you will explain to your client and how this case will be handled. How is it affected by the internal conviction of a judge when you present him with one previous entry into force or perhaps two judicial orders, if there is an appeal on which an internal subjective conviction has been taken? Is that how we do the criminal trial? Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u403	And thank you, Mr. Petrov. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u404	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues! My speech will affect the two paragraphs - 41 and 42 - since they are similar in nature and as an arrangement - and I would like to draw attention to a few things. First of all, specialized justice was created by law. As arguments were raised that the National Assembly is not competent with a decision to close the specialized court and prosecutors, this is not true. They are created by law, and it is by law that they can be closed. And here, first of all, the so-called amendment proposal in the cited paragraphs restricts the possibility of moving all judges and prosecutors from the specialized court and prosecution to a court, inasmuch as there are arguments why we impose quotas there. It is because of this, colleagues, so that the Specialized Court and the Prosecutor's Office cannot physically move from one place to another. This is a body that has proven ineffective, and we have no way of moving it from one place to another. This is one of our arguments for introducing quotas. Secondly, this restriction ensures that the specialization accumulated by judges, prosecutors, specialized bodies of the judiciary will not concentrate solely in the city of Sofia, as it will be thrown away, said to slang, judgment throughout the country. This means that this specialization, which has accumulated fellow judges and prosecutors, will also be able to be used in the relevant judicial authorities throughout the country. Thirdly and not least, as this is extremely important and should not be overlooked, the difficulties that would arise in re-emphasizing a large number of magistrates in a single body of the judiciary will be overcome. By means of the proposal made and supported by the Commission, all administrative, organisational and technical difficulties that would delay the process of reassigning magistrates would prevent them from entering office as soon as possible, and any difficulties from material, resource and personnel provision for the receiving judicial authorities will also be avoided. Since a judge, for example, needs to be secured by court clerks, court secretaries, job premises, and these things are not insignificant because there is a shortage in most court buildings in the country anyway. Imagine what would happen if there were 10 judges or 20 or 30 prosecutors in one place. This would create special difficulties for these receiving bodies of the judiciary. Next, a fair additional opportunity shall be introduced for the magistrates of the closed body of the judiciary, at their request, to be reinstated and reassigned to the post which they held prior to their appointment at the Special Court, respectively the Prosecutor's Office, that is to say, to allow judges to choose. If they wish to return to where they came from, they will have the opportunity to do so, so again, the arguments for forced displacement are not valid. It is precisely this quota framework that the legislator puts forward, and it puts it on the basis of reasonable arguments, where appropriate. From now on, the competent authority, which implements the chamber policy in the judiciary, has full operational autonomy to determine the rules by which state numbers will be disclosed in the receiving judicial authorities, to lay down the rules under which a specific magistrate will take a particular place. The legislature will in no way seize these powers of the Supreme Judicial Council, which will have to carry out this process under the general rules laid down in the Law on the Judiciary. The framework that the legislator will set is within perfectly acceptable limits, as the Supreme Judicial Council will in practice be completely free and, in full autonomy, be able to take these decisions. On several claims made about the unconstitutionality of the introduced quotas, I will say what I have also stated in the Commission, namely that we need to look at art. 117, para. 2 of the Constitution, which proclaims the independence of the judiciary. This is a direct manifestation of the principle of separation of authorities explicitly stated in art. 8 of the Constitution. However, this principle, as noted repeatedly by the Constitutional Court, does not constitute a force majeure between the established authorities, but implies interaction and cooperation between them. In this sense is Constitutional Case No. 8 of 2016. In its judgment in another case, No. 7 of 2005, the Court notes that there is no constitutional system that provides for and ensures absolute independence of any of the three authorities, because the necessary balance is achieved by mutual deterrent power. Initially, the judiciary has its competence up to the limits that the legislature sets, with the SJC operating in accordance with the powers set out in the Law on the Judiciary and with all the restrictions laid down in it. The Supreme Judicial Council and the judiciary as a whole are not isolated and encapsulated system and such capsule is absolutely not acceptable and should not be possible. In this regard, I consider it unfounded to claim the unconstitutionality of the two texts, because, as I said, the Supreme Judicial Council will have the full operational autonomy to reassign the magistrates. In the final I would like to stress again that the continuation and completion of the cases depends on the good faith of the magistrates, on whether they will put their personal interests before the public interest. I believe there were such indications at the Commission's meeting that they would be reasonable and would not commit certain abuses in the direction of making unlawful openings such as...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u405	The weather, Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u406	Yeah, I'm done. ...is called on to be carried out by the opposition. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for the overtime.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u407	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A line from Danny Kanazireva, second line from Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u408	Dear Mr. Ivanov, just the fact that you are introducing an emergency procedure that is not applicable to others, the other magistrates, only on this line you fall everything you have so far said as a basis. It is absurd for a legislator, as you are, to rely on someone else's good faith to ensure the public interest. If we get there, we're in deep shit. You cannot defend the rights and interests of these magistrates, in whose hands are really important and extremely difficult deeds, and expect from them good faith. In fact, with what you propose, you sanction them with this quota principle in question. Dear rulers, in this so-called judicial reform, you had to refine every word extremely precisely. You step on very thin ice, you put some serious mines on it, and they'll start shooting very soon after each other. With this bill you put the cross of hundreds of cases for serious crimes and the specialization of some magistrates who could have been valuable to us as a society. We have asked you several times about the quota principle and you have not given any answer, several times I have quoted you in both Sofia City and Sofia Court of Appeal and you have not answered me. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] No room, mate. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u409	Colleagues, let's end this discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u410	Please, not from a place. And by merging the paragraphs, colleague... [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Otherwise, I would have made a statement on the next paragraph. Okay, now I'm gonna make a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u411	Do not engage in such discussions, colleagues, please! Second line from Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u412	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, honourable colleagues! I do not agree with your statement, and I will tell you why. You are quoting the Constitution wonderfully, you are quoting a line: "Power power is holding back, but you do not deter anyone. This is direct interference, political interference in the work of the judiciary. There is, I believe, that it is a rude, gross illegal political interference, I would even say, in the work of the judiciary without public discussion, without taking the views of magistrates, in the dark, rematching, decisions are being taken that violate the normal rhythm of cases, direct, direct, direct political interference in the work of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u413	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Is there a third line to Miroslav Ivanov? I can't see. Is there gonna be an asshole? I won't. Anything else to say? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u414	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to make a statement in the proposal made by Mr. Slavov, just a small mistake was made in him... [[Noise and shouts from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u415	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u416	We're talking about the editing of § 42, which becomes § 45. In para. 6 the words "the promulgation of this law" are replaced by "the expiration of the term according to the term" "Mr. Slavov" said "al." That's two, but that's the point. Five o'clock.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u417	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Assoc. Prof. Slavov, your editorial proposal is corrected as follows: In Paragraph 45, according to the Commission's numbering, para. 6 the words "the promulgation of this law" shall be replaced by the expiration of the term under para. The following points are inserted after point 5 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: Honourable Members, we are going to vote. We begin with proposals that are not supported by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u418	May I have a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u419	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u420	Can I have a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u421	Let's finish with the vote, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u422	It hasn't started.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u423	It's started. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Colleagues, not like this! We've gone into voting mode. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Let's do the vote. By the way, guys, I think I'm gonna take a 20-minute break after that. [[(Noise, applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]] So far, it's been a discussion. I was going to give you the floor for a statement right away, but we shut it down. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Don't do that! First, we vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for § 40, according to the numbering of the applicant to be rejected. Vote 189 MPs: 64 against 125, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u424	Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u425	We're in a voting procedure, Mrs. Atanasova. [[Noise and lines.]] That's enough. The next proposal is again by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs to reject § 41. Vote 190 MPs: 61, against 126, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MP...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u426	Declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u427	Come in for a statement, Mrs. Atanasova. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Then we continue with the unaccepted proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u428	Mr. Chairman, honourable fighters for justice! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u429	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u430	You don't have to leave the room. [[The People's Representatives from.. We continue the Change........................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u431	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u432	Mr. Chairman, please first, put order in the Chamber so that I can begin the declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u433	Order and silence in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u434	I'll wait for the coworkers. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u435	Colleagues to the right, please be quiet in the hall! [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u436	Colleagues, why are you clapping now? You're on the right, aren't you? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u437	Thanks for the applause, guys. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! An hour ago, the Sofia District Court with its decision annulled the arrest warrant of GERB leader Boyko Borisov. [[GERB-SDS.]] Thus, the arrest of Boyko Borisov was proven illegal. I hope you won't want the closure of the Sofia District Court now, Madame Minister? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] The Court finds that there is no relevant evidence of a crime and condemns the Directorate General of National Police to pay the costs of the case. The Ministry of Interior has trampled the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, which it is obliged to observe. Until the time of Borisov's detention, no valid evidence or evidence has been collected that indicates possible empathy for committing a crime. The court draws attention to the so-called certificates of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, stating that his doubts are not supported by any facts. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] The court noted that the interrogations of the three witnesses, beyond Kiril Petkov, were carried out one day after detention and were therefore not even available to the evidence collection in the execution of the arrest. On the occasion of the arrest warrant, the court finds that this text represents the arrest warrant, honourable Members, illiterate and meaningly incomprehensible, partial interpretation of the legal text of art. 213a, para. 1 of the Penal Code. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] But from the partially prescribed wording of that legal provision, it is not clear in what actions Mr. Boyko Borisov is accused of. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]] I continue with the quotes: the detention order does not contain facts or information indicating the existence of a reasonable suspicion of violations by the applicant. There are no facts and circumstances linking the complainant to this crime. Until the moment of the arrest of the person Borisov has not collected any good evidence. Moreover, the doubts of the witness Petkov are not supported by any facts. There are no facts supporting the allegations of the transfer of money by the witness Vassil Bozhkov "Your witness, the one on the Magnetski list, distinguished absent ladies and gentlemen! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] The same guy didn't make any allegations suggesting that Borisov was blackmailing him. In addition, the court notes that interrogations are long after the term of the arrest. What does that tell you? That someone in an office ordered these interrogations to be organized and to which persons. Furthermore, on this criminal act, in this violation of the Law, the arrest of a leader of the opposition was involved not just anyone, but Laura Koveshi. Madam Secretary, how are you feeling? How will you visit it in Brussels or invite it to Bulgaria after this decision? Of course, as will all other reformers of the justice system?! Have I already read that there is no viable evidence? To read it again for the absent: At the time of the arrest no fit written or vocal evidence and evidence of the fact that it was Mr. Boyko Borisov who was the leader of the opposition who carried out a crime has been collected. Last but not least: The Court decided: canceled a detention order by an inspector of the General Directorate of National Police. [[GERB-SDS.]] A few words on another subject, but in this context. The reports of the State Department of the United States of America, the reports of Amnesty International, which link one of the persons involved in this illegal arrest with the outrage and repression of Boyko Rashkov. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Without focusing on the system and repeatedly described deficits Bulgaria has been struggling with for decades, I would like to pay special attention to Mr. Boyko Rashkov my lecturer, and to the respected media, especially on TV bTV. Ladies and gentlemen, and civil society, defenders of the Bulgarian media, freedom of speech! The State Department said very clearly yesterday: Boyko Rashkov repressed the Bulgarian media as well. Did you hear him? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] In addition to Boyko Rashkov repressing the Bulgarian media, declared by the State Department of the United States of America, today the Bulgarian court, which you have not yet closed, but there is time, of course, in this procedure, dear Minister, fighter for justice, the Bulgarian court also said that Boyko Rashkov and his Ministry of Interior are committing illegal acts, illegal arrests during elections during election campaign, established by other groups. During their own government arrested an opposition leader. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]] And finally. Special address to Mr. Kiril Petkov [[Replications by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid]] Because he's the great designer of this operation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u438	Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u439	Who asked you, poor Mr. Kiril Petkov, to start this outrage with the spell: No one is above the law! Yes, no one is above the law and the Bulgarian court proved it by exception, Mr. Kiril Petkov, you are right. And you're not above the law, either. Here, however, we must ask: who will be responsible for your insolent violation? I remind you that that time may have been about some kind of omission, because his heart was in Bulgaria and his declaration and citizenship elsewhere. But this time it's not just about a formal oversight. It's not an administrative procedure. This is about arresting the leader of the largest opposition party. Since Mr. Petkov, you have personally committed to this disgraceful operation, it is appropriate for you personally to bear responsibility. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Poor Mr. Petkov, by virtue of some elements at the moment Prime Minister, do you have any idea what this judgment means, what this arrest means, and do you have any idea that people of your kind suffer? Innocent people are suffering! [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] Mr. Poor Petkov, I urge you as a minimum to do nothing more. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] It is even better not to talk anymore, and it would be best if you went back to retail! Resign, amateurs! [[(All of GERB-SDS are up with applause and shouts: Resignation!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u440	Colleagues, order in the court! Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u441	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. I would ask you to remind my colleague Dessislava Atanasova art. 140 of our Rules, which I believe she is familiar with, but she tends not to respect it. I will read it: The National Representative treats citizens with due respect, regardless of their political bias, their position of office and their opinion. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u442	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u443	Respect, colleagues! Respect! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Elementary respect and upbringing!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u444	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u445	It's simple.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u446	Order and silence!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u447	Mr. Chairman, perhaps you should have asked Mrs. Atanasova to read the last sentence of the decision, Mrs. Atanasova, which you conveniently saved us. What does it say? [[Heckling]] The decision is subject to appeal. [[Strong noise and shouting from GERB-SDS.]] I mean, it's not final.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u448	Colleagues, I request silence and order in this Chamber. [[Noise and lines.]] There will be procedures. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u449	An act shall enter into force when it is not subject to appeal. So your joy may be short, colleagues from GERB. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u450	Quiet, please. Professor, just a second, you're up. Mr. Manev. Who was it? I apologize, and since you were up, I may have been confused, but I ask for silence and order and cultural treatment for each other, please. We're listening, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u451	Dear Mr. Chairman, for the first time in the Bulgarian Parliament it is seen that the ruling coalition sabotages the government's rule in the presence of the Minister of Justice when you are looking at some laws probably ordered by a fugitive who is somewhere in the United Arab Emirates...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u452	Professor, please, no such qualifications from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u453	But, Mr. Chairman, I ask you very urgently to call the Bulgarian Prime Minister to come to the National Assembly and to resign the Bulgarian government for several reasons. First, it was clearly demonstrated that the Minister of Interior in violation of the Bulgarian laws made an illegal arrest of the leader of the largest party in the Republic of Bulgaria. Secondly, the Minister of the Interior took the liberty of making threats to Bulgarian journalists on a direct broadcast on the Bulgarian television. Dear Mr. Chairman, we return to the darkest communist times when Boyko Rashkov was a communist investigator. Urgently call Kiril Petkov to resign the government if you really want the change in the state to continue. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u454	Professor, colleagues... First of all, Mr. Cholakov, were you also for procedure, excuse me? Let's hear it for Alexander Nenkov, it was before you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Manev, too?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u455	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I ask you to explain to the fellow Member who sits on the left of you what is respect, as he speaks of respect and quotes the Rules. The colleague next to you didn't really understand the meaning of the declaration. The Bulgarian court, which I hope still believes is independent and we have not closed it, says the Prime Minister has ordered an illegal arrest of his biggest opponent. Is that understood by your colleague next to you or not? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And what rules are you quoting from me, colleague?! What kind of respect are we talking about? There is no such country, tell me you, in which the Prime Minister orders illegal arrest, because the initiator of this arrest is precisely the prime minister of his biggest opponent. Where did you hear that happen?! Perhaps in Rwanda, but I, since I have no contact with Rwanda, and only Kiril Petkov has a more serious impression there, do such things happen? So please, just don't let your colleague talk about respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u456	We get it. Thank you for the procedure. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u457	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is to you in the manner of conduct. I would like to draw attention to the following: after all a very nice word has been heard here, I would like to make a reference to her the elements, according to some element came Mr. Kiril Petkov and became Prime Minister. This element is the hope of Bulgarian citizens for justice [[Laughter, shouts: "Eee!"]] When 500 pages of evidence, 500 pages of evidence isn't enough, that's the element. This is the element, Mrs. Atanasova! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u458	Thank you. Manoil Manev for procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u459	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. Ask the colleagues who fled this room when the declaration was read, we will print it out to them, give it to them, get acquainted with it, read it carefully and then speak out of this tribune. As for the elements and elements, justice ends in Bulgaria with a court of law, and the court today said two or three very important things. Firstly, the prime minister of this country arrested and initiated the arrests of his opponents. Secondly, the biggest legal expert of this government is illiterate, written in the decision that the motives are illiterate, and they are the product of Mr. Rashkov, your teacher, [[turns to MP Desislava Atanasova]] Yeah, yeah, you know. Mr. President of the National Assembly, disrespect when a political party reads its declaration and avoids the rest of the parliament because they do not want to hear it, and then their inclusion in a debate on this declaration is not admissible under the regulations that you so much want to debate about. The rules do not allow them to discuss the declaration. There's no such procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u460	I personally hope that we will end the procedures now, because the declaration is indeed an opinion on a topic beyond the agenda. The relevant parliamentary group says what it has to say and does not cause a discussion in plenary. Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, and then Mr. Cholakov for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u461	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope after my procedure and Mr. Cholakov will give up his and we can continue on the agenda for example. I think we've heard the declaration, we've heard the answer to the declaration. It is time to return to the agenda that we voted on this morning, honourable Members, and to proceed with the Law on the Judiciary and then with the API decision. So I urge you to calm your passions, there is no point in tension, we all know what happened today and what will happen in the future, to continue with the agenda that we voted on this morning. Thank you in advance. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u462	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u463	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! Mr. Chairman, to you. After Mrs. Atanasova read the declaration from our parliamentary group, your deputy came down here and made some notes that actually unlocked these lines to you now. One was, was it right that I heard that we should not be in a hurry to rejoice because this is still the first instance, the other might decide otherwise? Are you guys really...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u464	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u465	... Do you really intend to influence the court, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u466	They'll shut him down, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u467	I mean, you're shutting down the Special Court right now, and you're saying you're sending him to the Sofia City Court, where all of a sudden it's going to happen faster and better, which means you have something in mind. Now maybe you want the District Court to close down, too? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u468	Mr. Hamid, please, not from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u469	So make a remark to him to be careful what he says, because, colleagues, several times today, once again, we will be able to talk about the weight of words. I'm really telling you, serious and friendly! The second thing he said is that he read the text of the Rules of Procedure, which is about respect. Mr. Chairman, remind your deputy, because he is a young man and I suppose he has not read the Evangelical rule: [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB-SDS.]] For one year this is the third National Assembly, in which, colleagues, each of the majority in each speech disrespects the political party GERB. Whatever measure you measure, it will measure you! We have told you and told you again: until the end of this National Assembly, respect for the political party GERB will be restored and this judgment today is only one step in this direction, others will follow. [[Lowered applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u470	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. I hope that we have exhausted the procedures, that they have exceeded the length of the declaration itself, and it is not right. Let's be really calm. I was in the room during the declaration and I remained calm. We can proceed now with the proposals. The next proposal is from the MP Dani Canazireva for amendment to § 41 according to the importer's numbering. The proposal by MP Danny Canazireva is not supported by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Vote 171 MPs: 70 against 101, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs to reject § 42 according to the numbering of the importer. The proposal is not supported by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Vote 173 MPs: 60 against 112 abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MP Danny Canazireva for amendment to § 42 according to the importer's numbering. The proposal is not supported by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Vote 181 MPs: 61, against 119, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We've run out of unsupported proposals with this. We move on to the editorial proposal of the National Representative Atanas Slavov, which is in § 45 according to the numbering of the Commission: ? § 45, para. 6 The promulgation of this law shall be replaced by the expiration of the term under para. The following points are inserted after point 5 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: Vote 179 MPs: 120 against 55, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the name of the sub-division......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Voted 182 MPs: 120 against 62 abstentions. The motion is not accepted. I'm calling a break till 5:30. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u471	Colleagues, I suggest we continue our work. Here you are, Mr. Mateev, to present the following texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u472	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Slavov, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the CPNS: To create a new § 46: § 46. The persons under § 41, para. 1 and § 42, para. 1 shall be reassigned without prejudice to the rank and remuneration acquired. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The persons under § 44, para. 1 and § 45, para. 1 shall be reassigned without prejudice to the rank and level of remuneration acquired. Proposal from MP Philip Popov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 47: ss ss s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s. (1) Persons entitled on grounds of art. Art. 28, art. Art. 50 or art. 195, para. 4 shall be reimbursed to the body of the judicial authority which has applied to the College of the Supreme Judicial Council within 14 days of their release being held before the election or appointment in the bodies of the judiciary closed by that law, which applied to the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council within 14 days of their release, shall be restored to an equal degree in office in the relevant bodies of the judicial authority. (2) The persons who, at the date of entry into force of this Act, hold office as an administrative head and alternate of an administrative head and, following their dismissal from the position concerned, shall return to office in the closed specialised courts and prosecutors, shall be appointed to an equal position in the relevant judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u473	So far, Mr. Mateev. These are the two terms that are directly related to the reassignments. I suggest we have a discussion on them, vote on them, and then move on to the case files. Are there any who wish to speak on this subject? I can't see. We're closing the discussion. Here you are, Mr. Mateev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u474	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. 80, para. Two sentence two, I'm making an editorial proposal. In the version of the Commission for a new § 46 after the words In addition, paragraph 1 (b) is replaced by the following: 4............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u475	Okay. I don't think it's just technical. We will have to vote first on the supplement and then on the whole text. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Mateev to add the text. In Paragraph 46, the first sentence is replaced by the following: They voted 120 MPs: 113 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the new § 46 and § 47 in the version of the Commission together with the so-called supplement in § 46. They voted 118 MPs: 117 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u476	Under § 43, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Paragraph 43 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Milen Mateev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 48: ............... 48............................................................... Those who do not end up before the entry into force of this law pre-trial proceedings and case files in the Specialized Prosecutor's Office shall be sent to the relevant prosecutors of jurisdiction within 7 days of the entry into force of this law. Under § 44, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 44 to be rejected." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The criminal cases before the Specialized Criminal Court, where no action has been given to the judicial investigation until the entry into force of that law, shall be sent to the courts concerned on a case-by-case basis within 7 days of the entry into force of that law. Under § 45, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 45 to be rejected." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 45, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. (1) With the entry into force of this law, the first-standing criminal cases before the Specialized Criminal Court under which the judicial investigation has been initiated shall be brought to justice by the Sofia City Court and their examination shall be continued by the Chamber which held the hearing. (2) The Judges of the Chambers of Justice, which have not been reassigned to the Sofia City Court, shall be seconded to participate in the proceedings pending the completion of their proceedings. (3) The judges of the jury who have examined the first instance criminal cases in which a sentence has been given when they have not been reassigned to the Sofia City Court shall be seconded for the declaration of the reasons for the sentence. (4) In the cases under para. Art. 2 and 3 In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission may, Under § 46, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 46 to be rejected." The Commission does not support the proposal. Under § 46, there is a proposal from the MP Danny Kanazireva: "Paragraph 46 to be amended as follows: Appeals of criminal cases before the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court in respect of which no meeting under art. 327 of the PPC, within 14 days of the entry into force of the law, shall be sent on trial to the relevant appeal courts. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 46, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The proceedings before the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court which have not been brought before the Court of Appeal before which the judicial investigation has not been initiated shall be brought before the courts of appeal in question within 7 days of the entry into force of this Act. Under § 47, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 47 to be rejected." The Commission does not support the proposal. Under § 47, there is a proposal from the MP Danny Canazireva: "Paragraph 47, para. 1 to be amended as follows: With the entry into force of the law, the indicted criminal cases before the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court, in which a meeting under art. 327 of the PPC, they are sentenced to the Sofia Court of Appeal and their examination is continued by the Court of Justice of the sitting. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 47, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 1 is amended as follows: . (1) The proceedings before the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court under which the judicial investigation has been initiated shall be brought before the Sofia Court of Appeal and the hearing shall be continued by the Court of Justice which held the hearing. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 47, which shall become § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The proceedings before the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court, under which the judicial investigation has been initiated, pending the entry into force of this Act, shall be brought to justice by the Sofia Court of Appeal and shall continue to be examined by the Chamber of Appeal which held the hearing. (2) The Judges of the Chambers of Justice, which have not been reassigned to the Sofia Court of Appeal, shall be seconded to participate in the proceedings pending the completion of their proceedings. In these cases, art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u477	Maybe this is where we stop. I think it's logical. Since we have other things to do, if you will allow me, I will have to read the parliamentary control message while you review your speeches for the last time. Parliamentary control for 15 April 2022, Friday: "1." Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadjov will answer five questions from the MPs Vassil Zashkev; Bajram Bajram, Pavlin Krastev and Adlen Shevked; Sevim Ali, Fatme Ramadan and Escheref Escheref; Andrey Chorbanov; and Vasil Stefanov. 2. Energy Minister Alexander Nikolov will answer eight questions from the MPs Petar Kulenski; Ramadan Atali, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan; Martin Dimitrov [[two questions]] ; Hristo Terziyski; Stoyan Taslakov; Antoaneta Tsoneva; and Krasen Krastev. 3. The Minister of Youth and Sports Radostin Vassilev will answer a question from the MP Dimitar Nikolov. 4. Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov will answer 87 questions from the MPs Hairi Sadakov (three questions) ; Elhan Kulkov ; Pavlin Krastev (three questions) ; Adlen Shevked (four questions) ; Bajram Bajram (four questions) ; Devdet Chakarov (three questions) ; Halil Letifov (three questions) ; Sevim Ali (four questions) ; Esheref Esheref (four questions) ; Stanislav Anastasov (three questions) ; Peter Chobanov (four questions) ; Sezgin Mehmed (four questions) ; Dimitar Avramov (four questions) ; Ramadan Atalay (four questions) ; Gunner Ahmed (three questions) ; Tsvetan Enchev (four questions ; Fatmedan (four questions) ; Mr. 5. Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska will answer a question from MP Rumen Hristov. 6. Minister of Health Asena Serbenova will answer seven questions from the MPs Aleksandar Simidchiev two questions; Elisaveta Belobradova; Stefan Apostolov; Iliana Zhekova; and Ivaylo Hristov two questions. 7. The Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov will answer a question from the MP Tsveta Galunova. 8. The Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov will answer three questions from the MPs Petar Petrov; Zornitsa Stratieva and Alexander Dunchev; and Zlatomira Karageorgieva-Mostrova, and one question from the MP Mladen Shishkov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 97, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Due to a business trip outside the country, answers to questions with written answer from Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska are postponed; Due to urgent commitments in the parliamentary control meeting, there will be no participation: - Minister of Innovation and Growth Daniel Lorre; - Minister of Tourism Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolai Subev. On the basis of art. 92, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly due to absence for respectable reasons of Members of the National Assembly shall be postponed the answers to: - a question from the MP Yuseyin Weyselov to the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov; - one question MPs Stefan Shilev and Ivan Totev to the Minister of Health Asena Serbenova. We have also rejected this task, and I am now opening a discussion on the so presented paragraphs 43 to 47. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u478	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I will make a general statement on several of the paragraphs which de facto refer to the continuation of the cases, whether in front of the first, whether before an appeal instance. A moment ago, in one of the statements concerning the status and reassignment of judges and prosecutors, I mentioned the second statement of the ruling coalition that none of the cases would be delayed, difficult, that it would be challenged by part of the provisions of the Transitional and Final Rules. And unfortunately, it was rebutted by the amendments made between first and second readings, which were different from the texts that were voted at first reading and proposed by the importer. Unfortunately, colleagues, I was impressed by the proposals that have been made by colleagues from "We are continuing the Change" and when we were discussing in the Legal Commission, when several times we asked questions to the importers, we were not actually answered by the importers of these proposals between first and second readings, but we were answered by lawyers, which is not wrong to use the expertise of lawyers, as if they were importers, they defended this text. What is this amendment about? In 2018, or 2017, the hearing in question aimed at disciplining the prosecution and to enable, by order, a number of important procedural actions to be carried out before the judicial investigation was initiated, so as to prevent the practice of infinity of returning cases to the fifth or sixth hearing of the judicial investigation. What is done in this hearing, since I heard some false things if I heard any of the things from the importers at the meeting of the Legal Committee. Is there a ruling, apart from the court's conviction, that there is grounds for termination and suspension of criminal proceedings, whether there is a pre-trial procedure to remedy a material breach of procedural rules which have resulted in a limitation of the procedural rights of the defendant, the victim and so on, are there grounds for examining the case in accordance with the specific rules, the measures taken for procedural coercion, requests for the collection of the new evidence and so on? Before that open hearing, there is one closed session, which is carried out by the judge himself. What does this meeting usually end with? The court, after hearing the prosecutor and the persons, the accused and his defender, or the injured persons or legal persons, such as, if there are, not only physical and their defenders, may terminate the proceedings, terminate the criminal proceedings, suspend the criminal proceedings or schedule the case and notify the persons where there is no basis for examining the special rules, so to speak. This definition is subject to appeal in the case of a higher instance. It shall be announced in that hearing. What did you have to offer, colleagues, between first and second readings, and what did you adopt to the Legal Committee? Only cases for which the judicial investigation has not been initiated, i.e. whether or not there is an administrative hearing, with an entry into force of a definition which may have passed through a higher instance, shall continue to be examined by the same Chambers. In cases with 20. 30 defendants, with 80. 90 witnesses and injured persons, and I do not know how many volumes of documents Ms. Kanazireva is more familiar, she reads them, this means that these cases can be delayed by at least six months, and perhaps more than go-di-na! The new judge will have to carry out all these actions from the-to-the-lo: he will have to do indoors, get acquainted with the documents, the case, make the closed officer, the open officer and possibly sentence something different in his order. That means twice you'll be looking at the same thing. This is of no benefit either to the speed of the process, nor to objective truth, nor to the accused persons concerned, because at this meeting their defenders very often reveal their tactics and their evidence claims. So, colleagues, with this amendment, which was defended not by the importers during the Legal Commission, there are protocols and this is seen, but by lawyers, you also contradict the second statement that there will be no delayed case or case for which there is a risk of its absolute limitation. On the contrary, many cases will start all over again and will be delayed by a minimum of a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u479	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Mrs. Kanazireva, you have the floor. [[Reply.]] Can I just have Mr. Mateev's procedure before that? After all, there is an advantage to the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u480	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in order to avoid accusations that we are somehow trying to delay cases or redirect them to another Chamber, I am currently editing all paragraphs 49, 50, 51, 52 and 54. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u481	However, paragraph 54 will have to be later, perhaps.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u482	Yeah, maybe after we read it, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u483	And just make the offer now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u484	My proposal is this: in these four paragraphs, which we have so far read, everywhere in the text, where the words of the judicial investigation are to be changed to a court hearing. That's my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u485	Here you are, Mrs. Kanazireva, while I write it down.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u486	Mr President, colleagues, I would like, first of all, to congratulate the President of the Legal Committee on a really very sensible and correct proposal, and I am pleased that you accept it. I was really impressed and could only be described as lobbying the change of the judicial process with the hearing, which was set by the importer. As I have said in my speeches so far, the ICC is a constant practice of the Court of Justice in relation to the fact that the principle of inalienability of the court is being followed precisely by the hearing and as much as by the Legal Committee, some lawyers, unfortunately, with pending cases at the Special Court, suggest to us that this is hardly just some light sitting, this is an extremely difficult hearing, which can delay cases indeed for more than a year. I have one more proposal, Mr President, however, and if you accept it, in relation to the paragraphs that become 48 and 49, on the deadline in the Bill you have placed seven days, which I believe is extremely insufficient for the transfer of files and cases of competence, I suggest at least 14 days. Indeed, a seven-day term is an extremely short period, which does not take into account their number, their volume, the fact that until their actual reassignment the magistrates still carry out their duties, and that includes employment in other matters. So my editorial proposal is only in the figure from 7 to 14 days in the paragraphs that become 48 and 49. And once again, in relation to the judicial investigation and the hearing, and in § 50, I do not know whether you included it, to replace the case and 49. [[SIGHS]] Yeah, that's it. In that case, all I have left is my proposal in relation to the period from 7 to 14 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u487	Thank you. Is there any line to that statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see either. We close the discussion on these texts and move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the proposals not supported by the Commission. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 43. Vote 152 MPs: 41, Against 111, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 44. Vote 156 MPs: 39, against 116, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 45. Vote 169 MPs: 45 against 123, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 46. Vote 174 MPs: 46 against 127, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Danny Kanazireva, not supported by the Commission. Vote 167 MPs: 44, against 121, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 47. Vote 173 MPs: 46, against 126, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the National Representative Danny Kanazireva under § 47, not supported by the Commission. Vote 169 MPs: 43, against 123, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Mateev in paragraphs 44, 45, 46 and 47, which will respectively be 49, 50, 51 and 52, the words of the judicial investigation to be replaced by an administrative hearing. Isn't that right, Mr. Mateev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u488	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u489	Please, voting mode. Vote 150 MPs: 130, against 20, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Mrs. Kanazireva's proposal in paragraphs 48 and 49 to replace the number Vote 172 MPs: 69 against 51, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u490	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u491	It's a rethink of this proposal. They voted 170 MPs: 67, 47, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on paragraphs 43, 44, 45, 46 and 47 in the version of the Commission, which become respectively paragraphs 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, together with the change already adopted in paragraphs 49 to 52. They voted 170 MPs: 125, against 45, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please proceed, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u492	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 48 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 48, which becomes § 53 and, in a sentence, second, the words of the Law on the Judicial Authority are deleted. Under § 49, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 49 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 49, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss With the entry into force of this law, the term of office of the jury elected to participate in the proceedings before the Specialized Criminal Court shall be terminated, with the exception of the jury involved in proceedings under which the judicial investigation has been initiated. Their term of office in these proceedings shall continue as a jury in the Sofia City Court and shall be suspended from the date of the declaration of the reasons for the verdict or of the date of termination of the criminal or judicial proceedings. Under § 50, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 50 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 55. Under § 51, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 51 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 51, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The working relationship of the staff of the Specialized Criminal Court, the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court, the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office shall be governed under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down in art. 123 of the Labour Code and in accordance with art. 341, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Law on the Judiciary, and § 59 does not apply. Under § 52, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 52 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danny Canazireva § 52 to be amended as follows: The competitions for appointments to the judicial authorities which are closed shall be suspended only for those bodies. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 52, which shall become § 57: ...... 57............................................................... The competitions for appointment to the judicial authorities which are closed shall be terminated at the date of the promulgation of this law. Under § 53, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 53 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danny Canazireva § 53 to be amended as follows: The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 which shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 53, which shall become § 58: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The proceedings initiated but not concluded at the date of the promulgation of this law shall be terminated unless the attestation refers to other competitions and electoral procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u493	I am opening a discussion on the texts presented. Here you are, Mr. Balachev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u494	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The statement will be very brief. I do not agree with the request and the content of § 48, which I do not now know what number it has. The question is that the judges of the Board of Appeal who have examined the cases in which a conviction has been ordered or have been declared to be resolved, which have not been reassigned to the Sofia Court of Appeal, shall be posted until the reasons and verdict have been declared. This text is not applicable because the sentences are announced immediately at the hearing, which has ended, so that in any case they are either employees of the Specialized Court and it is relevant whether or not they will be posted, because the reasons are obtained within a period laid down by the Law. As for the cases declared to be settled, they also do not have a ruling after that and it is not necessary if the judges are not posted to the relevant court of appeal.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Please specify this text or drop it completely because it is simply not applicable.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u495	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Are there any lines to that statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. We're closing the discussion. Let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u496	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u497	Come in for a procedure, Mr. Mateev, before we vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u498	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I am making a proposal for a technical version of § 54 in which the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u499	Yeah, we missed that. Thank you. We are starting the vote on the proposals unsupported by the Commission. The first is the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 48. Vote 134 MPs: 29, against 104, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. Following is a proposal from MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs to reject § 49. They voted 143 MPs: for 24, against 119, there is no abstention. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 50. Vote 145 MPs: 24, against 120, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u500	What do we vote on?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u501	The proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova. That answers the question of who, not what, but I still think it becomes clear. [[Laughter, excitement.]] Vote 141 MPs: 19 against 120, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 52. Vote 146 MPs: 21, against 124, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the National Representative Danny Kanazireva under § 22, not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u502	It's fifty-two, you said 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u503	Fifty-two, of course. Obviously a mistake I do not know whether in the language or in the mind, but § 52, not 22! They voted 143 MPs: 20, against 121, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 53. They voted 144 MPs: 19 against 125, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by MP Danny Canazireva under § 53, not supported by the Commission. They voted 143 MPs: 20, against 122, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on Mr. Mateev's proposal in § 49, which will become § 54 words of the court's decision to replace them with a court hearing. Vote 148 MPs: 127, against 21, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on paragraphs 48 and 49, which become 53 and 54 in the version of the Commission, such as § 54 with the proposal just adopted; § 50, which becomes 55 by importer; paragraphs 51, 52 and 53, respectively, which become 56, 57 and 58 in the version of the Commission. Vote 152 MPs: 127 against 25 abstentions. The motion is accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Mateev, to present the following paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u504	Under § 54, there is a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Dessislava Atanasova and a group of MPs to reject § 54. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 59. Under § 55, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 55: 1. Point 1 to be amended as follows: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35: (a) in para. 2 words.............................................................................. 330, para. 2 and 3 330, para. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: (b) in para. 3 the words as well as the members of the Council of Ministers shall be replaced by the members of the Council of Ministers and Deputy Ministers and the cases of competence of the European Prosecutor's Office shall be added at the end; (c) a new para shall be created. 4. (4) The first instance of the Sofia City Court is also the case for crimes: 1. by Chapter 1 of the special part of the Penal Code; Art. 2. The Criminal Code shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, and in the Official Journal of the European Union, and in the Official Journal of the European Union, and in the Official Journal of the European Union, of the Official Journal of the European Union, of the European Union, and in the Official Journal of the European Union, of the one part, and in the Official Journal of the European Union, of the other part, and in the Official Journal of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and shall be authentic. (a) Members of the National Assembly; (b) Chairs of state agencies and their alternates, members of state committees, executive directors of executive agencies and their alternates; (c) the Governor of the National Insurance Institute, the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the Executive Director and the Directors of the Territorial Directorates of the National Revenue Agency; (d) the Director of the Customs Agency; (e) members of the Anti-Corruption Commission and of the illegally acquired property and the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means; (f) regional managers and sub-regional governors; (g) Mayors and Deputy Mayors of Municipalities, Mayors and Deputy Mayors of Districts and Chairs of Municipal Councils; (h) members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chief Inspector and Inspectors of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. (d) the current para. 4 becomes para. 5. 2. Points 2, 3, 6 and 7 drop out. 3. Point 9 to be amended as follows: Nine. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1: (aa) t. 1 is repealed; (bb) (bb) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (b) paragraph 4 is repealed. 4. Point ten, drop it. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Milen Mateev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 55, which shall become § 60: ........................................................ In the Code of Criminal Procedure (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: (2) The district court shall have first instance cases for crimes under art. 115,116,118,119,123,124, art. 131, para. 1, t. 8th para. 2, p. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Art. 142, Art. 142a, para. Two, proposition two, art. 143, para. Art. 2 and 4, Art. 143a, para. 3, Proposed 2nd, Art. 149, para. Art. 5, art. 152, para. Art. 4, Art. 155, para. 5, t. Art. 1, art. 156, para. 3, p. Art. 1, art. 159, para. Art. 5, art. 159d, proposal number two, Art. 162, para. 3, proposal first and para. Art. 4, Art. 195, para. 1, t. 9, Proposed 2nd, Art. 196a, 199, 203, art. 206, para. Art. 4, Art. 208, para. Five, proposal one, Art. 212, para. Art. 5, art. 213a, para. 2, p. Five, proposal two, para. Art. 3 and 4, Art. 214, para. Art. 2, Art. 219, 220, 224, 225b, 225c, art. 235, para. 4th proposal first, Art. 242, 243.. 246, 248.. 250, 252.. 260................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 280, para. 2, p. Art. 5, art. 282 "283b, 287a, 301 "307, 319a " 319e, 321a, 321a, art. 330, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. 333, 334, 340 IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 letter................................................................................. 3 (b) and 3 (b) Art. 4, Art. 346, para. 6, Proposed 2nd, Art. 349, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. 350, para. Art. 3, Art. 354a, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Art. 354b, Art. 354c, para. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 356b, para. Art. 2, Art. 356 e " 356i," 357 "360" and 407 "419a" of the Criminal Code. (b) A new para shall be created. 3: (3) The district court as first instance shall also be charged with cases of crimes of general character under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 212, para. 1 "4, 212a, 226, 251, 285, 287, 288 and 289 made by: 1. Deputy Ministers; 2. Chairs of state agencies and state committees, executive directors of executive agencies and their alternates; 3. the manager of the National Insurance Institute, the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, the Executive Director and the directors of the territorial directorates of the National Revenue Agency; 4. the Director of the Customs Agency, heads of customs, customs offices and posts; 5. the members of the Anti-Corruption Commission and the seizure of illegally acquired property and the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means; 6. district managers and deputy district governors; 7. members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chief Inspector and the Inspectors of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council; 8. Mayors and Deputy Mayors of Municipalities, Mayors and Deputy Mayors of Districts and Chairmans of Municipal Councils. c) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: . (4) The Sofia City Court shall have first instance cases of crimes of general nature committed by judges, prosecutors and investigators, by other persons with immunity, by members of the Council of Ministers, as well as cases of crimes referred to in Chapter One of the special part of the Penal Code, unless the specific rules of Chapter Thirty-First apply; (d) the creation of para. 5. The cases of competence of the European Prosecutor's Office are also indicted (5); (e) the current para. 4 becomes para. 6. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42, para. 2 the words of the specialized court shall be deleted. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 173, para. 3 all over the words. 174, para. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 3 is repealed; (b) in para. 4 words................................................................................. 1.. 3.. are replaced (c) in para. The fifth sentence is amended as follows: In the other cases, the authorisation shall be granted by the President of the Court of Military Appeal or by an authorised deputy, at the request of the Administrative Head of the Military-Appellate Prosecutor's Office or to an authorised deputy; (d) in para. 6 the words "and the specialized court' shall be deleted. (e) in para. 7 and 8 words. 1.. 3.. are replaced by............................................................................................. One and two. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 194 para. Seven is 6. A new article shall be created. 194a: The EPPO shall be responsible for the performance of its tasks in accordance with the procedures and procedures laid down in this Article. Art. 194a. (1) The European Prosecutor, the European Delegated Prosecutor and the investigating authorities shall be the bodies of the pre-trial proceedings in the cases of jurisdiction of the European Prosecutor's Office of the Sofia City Court. (2) Investigative authorities in cases of jurisdiction of the European Prosecutor's Office shall be the investigators of the National Investigation Service, the investigating officers appointed by order of the Minister of Interior and the investigating customs inspectors appointed by order of the Minister of Finance on a proposal from the Director of the Customs Agency. 7. Article 213a is repealed. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 287, para. 2 the words of the specialized court shall be deleted. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 288, para. 1 words shall be deleted from the specialized criminal court. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 396 A.D. 2 a comma is finally placed and added except where the case is of the competence of the European Prosecutor's Office. 11. Chapter thirty-first................................................................................................... Article 411a 411 e "Special rules for the handling of cases brought before specialized criminal courts" shall be repealed. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 420, para. 1 the words "the person responsible for the special prosecutor's office" shall be deleted. Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: To create §... ; §... (1) The criminal cases which have not been completed until the entry into force of this Law, whose jurisdiction is changed by § 55, shall be dealt with by the courts in which they have been set up. (2) Unfinished pre-trial proceedings shall be completed by the authorities before which they are addressed until the entry into force of this law. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 56 to be amended as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Special Intelligence (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 3 sentence first, the words............................................................... are 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 2 the words "Securities of the Criminal Court" shall be replaced by "Sofia City Court." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 61. ...... 57............................................................... In the Law on Measures against Money Laundering (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 73, para. the third sentence is deleted; Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 57 to be rejected." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 62. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 58, which shall become § 63: .............................................................................. In the Law on Electronic Communications (promise, SG No. ...) in art. 251d the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the words "Senior Criminal Court" shall be replaced by "Sofia City Court." 2. In para. 4 the words "the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court" shall be replaced by "the Sofia Court of Appeal." 3. In para. 7 words "Securities of the Criminal Court" shall be replaced by "Sofia City Court." Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: Paragraph 59 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 59, which shall become § 64: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the European Order of Investigation in art. 9, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the word "Sofia City' is replaced by "Sofia City'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words "the specialized criminal court" shall be replaced by "the Sofia City Court." Proposal of the National Representative Milen Mateev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79. para. 6. 2 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 65 and § 66. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 38, para. 1, t. 2 point (c) is replaced by the following: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Counteracting Terrorism (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 32, para. 1, 3 and 8 the words "Senior Criminal Court" shall be replaced by "Sofia City Court." Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 60 to be rejected." The Commission supports the proposal. Proposed by MP Danny Kanazireva. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer, but proposes that § 60 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 44, para. 5 and § 45, para. 10 in the version of the Commission. Under § 61, there is a proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: Do not pass it on to others. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Dani Kanazireva § 61 to be amended as follows: The text to be deleted § 32. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Miroslav Ivanov and a group of MPs: In § 61, after the number....42...... is The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 61, which shall become § 67: ................. The law shall enter into force three months after its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of paragraphs 1, 2, 5, 6, 18, 28, 32, 34, 44, 45, 57 and 58, which shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u505	That's it, Mr. Mateev, for now, from you. I am opening a discussion on the texts presented. Are there any statements on them? I can't see. We close the discussion and slowly move on to the vote. I ask the Quaestors to invite colleagues who are eagerly waiting in the corridors, and of course we will start first from the proposals that are not supported by the Commission. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 54. They voted 153 MPs: 29, against 124, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 55. Vote 162 MPs: for 31, against 131, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph after § 55, which will become 60. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Vote 167 MPs: 34 against 133, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 56, not supported by the Commission. Vote 168 MPs: 37 against 131, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 57. Vote 173 MPs: 43, against 129, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs to reject § 59. Vote 177 MPs: 43, against 134, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs § 61 to be rejected. Vote 173 MPs: 42, against 129, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by the National Representative Dani Kanazireva under § 61, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 176 MPs: 43, against 131, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the texts as follows: § 54, which becomes § 59 by importer; § 55, which becomes § 60 by version of the Commission; paragraphs 56 and 57, which become 61 and 62 by importer; paragraphs 58 and 59, which become 63 and 64 by version of the Commission respectively; the creation of new paragraphs 65 and 66 by version of the Commission; the rejection of § 60; and § 61, which also becomes § 67 by version of the Commission. Vote 182 MPs: 135 against 47, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. [[(The MPs from..We continue the Change, BSP for Bulgaria..................................... there is such a people.................................................]] How was the small step for man, a great step for mankind. [[Laughter]] That's what it sounds like. Here you are, Mr. Bikov, for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u506	Dear Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for welcoming me with these loud applauses. [[Applause and laughter.]] I voted against not only this text, but also against all the texts in this law, because, although I am not a lawyer, and within the debate, and before that I understood one thing, the law will be accepted with champagne, but will probably be applied with tears [[Applause and laughter by GERB-SDS]] Because you have no idea what you're going to do from now on, neither politically nor operationally. Politically you will no longer be able to blame all this specialized court, and that's good. Now you will have to blame the Sofia District Court, the Sofia City Court and all the other courts that will not possibly do what you have given them as a task. Secondly, there will certainly be a certain chaos in the judiciary. We are yet to see the results of this vote of your so-called reform. [[Noise and lines.]] We expect to see a sharp improvement in court procedures, although specialized courts looked at far less cases than others see. Now perhaps with the adoption of this law expectations should be met. All you've said is that this is going to happen, it's closing this bad court, it has to bring about justice very quickly. We will continue to monitor these trials, and you will have all the responsibility if even one case against a criminal fails. I'm sure much more than one will be ruined. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u507	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Second negative vote, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u508	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I also voted against the entire bill. Mr. Bikov, I'm even going to give him a line, he said you'd be responsible. You won't have any responsibility. What you have done today is the so-called reform of you, and I am convinced that I am a bad prophet that this is where the whole fairy tale and the whole mantra of not asking for what you had in the years back for judicial reform ends. This should be clear to all Bulgarian citizens that this is not any reform, but punishment, because you do not like one prosecutor or another or any other. I told you a while ago: if you wanted to make a judicial reform, you wouldn't have started backwards, but you should have looked at the really big picture, but you don't want to, so I see that you're so enthusiastic, clapping with your hands, congratulating yourself. I think this majority is running out because, in fact, you two mandates were trying to do one, two, three weeks each today, you have fulfilled your commitment to the people who are very interested in shutting down these specialized courts and special prosecutors, you have fulfilled your main task for which you have gathered. So in my opinion, just like Kostadin Angelov said: invite the Prime Minister to resign and not make any more zulus in this country. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u509	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Third negative vote, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u510	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I voted against not only because I believe that this bill is harmful to Bulgarian justice and against the fight against organised crime. I voted against not being politically stubborn and not to be upside down because I am in opposition. I voted against, colleagues, because I refuse to sacrifice working institutions for the sake of the fake totem, for the false shamans, for the fight against corruption. The only point of adopting this legislation, respected reformers, is thanks to all of you on your mailboxes. It's not a red ballot from the guy who's wanted with a red newsletter, well, he's heartily thanked by: Bozhkov, Arabadjiev, Bobokovi, Banevi, Minno Staykov, Veso Beard, Ivo Turkna, Traycho, Meto, Golyovtsi, Spider, Mityo Chirpanski, Tavata, Policeman, Bearkov, Sun, Gargata, Kukata, Temeruta, Pifa... and all the phone cheaters. [[shows red leaf and reads it from the stands]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] Madam Minister, a great thank you from these people. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u511	But you put these people in parliament with this. Minister Yordanova has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u512	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I thank you for your support! Thanks for the debate. This is a bill which, in society, and truely, yes, in three Parliaments is being discussed very strongly, very deeply, and at any given moment we have shown that we can hear, discuss criticism and where the improvement of the bill is really intended to be adopted. I would like, in these final words, on the subject of the draft and the bill adopted, to state clearly and one more thing. Speculation, misinterpretation, delusion are the allegations that the efforts for judicial reform stop here or that we do not know what we are doing. Our efforts have only just begun and we know what we are doing. [[Long applause from.. We continue the Change..]] In the coalition agreement on which this government is based, these things are very clearly described and, of course, it covers both criminal justice and civil justice, administrative justice. Even today, this afternoon, while we were debating in this Chamber, the Ministry of Justice was working on amending legislation regarding the implementation of the Kolevi decision, the S.H. solution, which includes two large groups of issues. First, an effective investigation, effective pre-trial proceedings and an effective mechanism for seeking the responsibility of the Attorney General. Two huge groups of problems that haven't been solved for years. As of April 1st this year in Bulgarian arrests do you know how many persons have been detained without served indictments for more than six months? Do you know how much? [[DPS lines.]] Let's, uh, let's remember, in order to hold on for more than six months, what does it take? [[DPS lines.]] These are 30 Bulgarian citizens, most of whom, 30 Bulgarian citizens, five of whom have been detained without indictment for more than a year. [[DPS lines.]] [[DPS lines: "20 000. "]] Do you like such a functioning prosecution? [[Replys from DPS: "To you yes! "]] Do we like this kind of legislation? We understand that only after some time here again we will have to discuss the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights against Bulgaria for excessive detention without an effective sentence?! The work continues and I am confident that very soon we will again debate important tasks. By the way, there are several already in parliament, so I hope the committees will consider them and we will discuss them in plenary very soon. Thank you and have a good job with the next point. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u513	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. It's been a long day, but it ends with a result. [[The National Representative Hristo Gazhev wants the floor.]] Moving on to the next... For what, Mr. Gadget?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u514	Procedure for the next point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u515	Procedure? But I'll stop you if anything turns out to be out of line. All right, here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u516	Dear Mr. President, colleagues, I assume you think that I will take account of the Minister's words, because I said it would be on the next point. If we may, Mr President, we may still receive the report or rather see which one is the draft decision we will be looking at, because what did it turn out to be? The Regional Commission adopted one report with one draft decision, the Legal Commission adopted a report with a different draft decision, the Budget Commission did not adopt a decision at all, although this was a third option. That is why I appeal to you, Mr President, before we begin to examine this point, at least to have the report that we will actually debate, as there are two different reports at the moment, one of the Regional Commission, one of the Legal Committee, and they differ substantially between them, and it is good to know what we are debating anyway. [[(Reply from DPS:.) Write a fourth new version. You can't!]] I hope, Mr. Chairman, that you can really spread it to the MPs so that we know what the point is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u517	I hadn't announced we were going to the next point. Now, I'm going to announce the point, I'm going to suggest that we begin the presentation of the reports, and I guess we'll sort out the final result within that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u518	You can't!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u519	Wait a minute, why can't you? There are draft decisions in committee reports. These reports are official reports, they will be presented from there on the National Assembly will decide which of these reports will be adopted and which is not. I think there can be no dispute here, but, of course, while the reports are being presented, I suggest that the committee chairmen discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u520	Procedure, procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u521	Wait, wait, calm down! Let me announce that we are entering the point and I will give you the opportunity to do your procedure. Moving on to: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PRESENT ACTS WITH REGARD TO CONSTATED DANGERITY FROM THE INDEPENDENCE OF AGENCEMENT OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE TO CONSUMER THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS OF THE REPUBLICIC RESTRUCTRUCTION AGENCY. I give the floor to Mr. Nankov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u522	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me explain what my colleague Gajev said. I guess you didn't understand exactly what procedure he did...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u523	We understand, but repeat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u524	...and what problems we've witnessed the last two weeks. Firstly, the Regional Commission meeting last Tuesday, announced an agenda with a draft decision uploaded to the website and to the Commission's website. The Commission itself is looking at a second draft decision. Is that correct, Mr. Chairman? At the Commission itself, we are considering a second draft decision which we were not aware of, by the way. Finally, we voted on a third draft decision. Finally, we voted on the Commission, the question of how the decision was adopted, how many votes and so on, whether it was legitimate, but a third draft decision was adopted. Yesterday at the Legal Committee, we're looking at a fourth draft decision. Fourth draft of a decision, I've prepared them. [[Shows.]] Today, the two chairmen of the two committees will shortly report to the Budget We know that nothing has been accepted, to the Regional and Legal Committee, two reports with two different projects. Therefore, the request of colleague Gajev, mine too, of our entire parliamentary group and of colleagues who want to debate on the substance and to know what we will adopt in a moment and what arguments to use in this debate has been printed The draft decision that we will consider, debate, discuss, possibly adopt in a moment. This is my request, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u525	Thank you, Mr. Nankov. Mr. Letifov, please come in for a procedure. [[National Representative Kiril Ananiev wants the floor for procedure.]] Let's take turns, Mr. Letifov, then you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u526	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I and Mr. Nankov will not agree. Mr. Nankov, I can't see you. Where did you go? Oh, yeah. I won't agree with you. In the Commission was submitted a draft decision by importers, I will now find them.. Nastimir Ananiev, Yordan Terziyski, Lozko Lozkov, Victoria Vasileva and so on there are many. This project, which was dealt, was not by the importers somewhere in the dark, was not by the importers. The third project is also not from importers, the fourth is not from importers. Mr. Chairman, what are we looking at today? The importers to give themselves the Project for a decision, to look at it or to withdraw it, as these projects are not theirs and at the next moment we have to say how it came to this. Mr. Bikov, 13 years ago, GERB did one thing. " 2009 came and said: "There is corruption in the roads here, we quote some hundreds of millions, we will investigate. The result of all these things, of course, which is about the relevant things, to be there and to be pronounced as competent authorities, but today we are stuck and this responsibility is transferred to the National Assembly, which is not the work of the legislative authority, but we also have to say who is responsible for this, who promised 40 bridges of the Danube in one year and for the 8 billion spent not on purpose. We can't spend a penny today and we don't know what we're doing. Here during the debates it was about road safety, the poor condition of the roads, but the solution does not suggest this. Finally, I want to see where the decision of the coalition council is. It's the highest authority in the country. Where is the decision of the coalition council fixed that today we should look at this decision here? If there are actually too many physical and verbal battles in this decision protocol, put a multipoint so that we, and the audience, or the Bulgarian citizens do not witness this. And if they're very multi-pointing, put in a PP, we're just missing out. [[(Laughter) Claps by DPS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u527	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Kiril Ananiev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u528	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is as follows: given the specificity of the decision or decisions being proposed, I personally believe that the two Deputy Prime Ministers, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and the Minister of Finance should be here next to us. You know there are also financial consequences to this decision. If necessary, we'll ask for a 15-minute recess so the two deputy prime ministers can come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u529	Thank you. Are there any other procedures? I suggest you inform the two ministers of this desire of the GERB group. I hope they have the chance to come, first. Secondly, we have reports from the committees. These are official reports, they must be presented. We also have a project which has been tabled by a group of MPs, headed by Nastimir Ananiev, who will also be given the opportunity to submit their proposal for a solution. Once all this is presented, I believe it will become clear exactly what we are voting on. Mr. Letifov, I believe that some of the questions you raised are for the committees themselves. Once the Commission has reached a decision on this project, we are working with the draft committees. Once they are presented, a discussion will begin and I believe that in it we will clarify what is necessary, and if we cannot, I will ask for a break in which to clarify this issue too. So, I propose that the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, present its report on the Draft Decision. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u530	Dear Mr. Chairman! At a regular meeting held on 5 April 2022, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a draft decision to take action in connection with the found danger of becoming impossible for the Agency of Road Infrastructure.The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, No 47-254-02-36, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev, Yordan Terziyski, Lozko Lozev, Viktoria Vasileva, Borislav Gutsanov, Snezanka Trajanska, Manol Genov, Andrei Mihailov and Toshko Yordanov on 30 March 2022. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Mr. Grozdan Karadjov, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Yavor Penchev and Mr. Stefan Asparuhov, Deputy Ministers of Regional Development and Public Works, Directors of Directorates and experts from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, representatives of the Road Infrastructure Agency, as well as representatives of branch and trade organizations in the sector. On behalf of the importers, the draft decision was presented by the National Representative Snezhanka Trajanska. It submitted a new version of the submitted draft decision, noting that only legal and technical amendments and editorial amendments have been made together with the Ministry, which do not substantially alter the meaning and content of the submitted draft decision. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Grozdan Karadjov informed the MPs of the reasons why the situation was reached. He stressed that the main reason is the insufficient funds that were laid down under the Agency's budget in 2021, while contracts were concluded and activities were allocated for significantly higher values. 34 contracts for the maintenance of Republican roads concluded between 2019 and 2020, with a total estimated value of 711 720 000 BGN. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. As regards these contracts, a working group was appointed by order of the Prime Minister in 2021 to carry out an inspection and to propose a solution for the lawful payment of the activities carried out by the companies. The Task Force Report suggests their invalidity and proposes their termination. As a result, early termination agreements were signed and for four of them the new deadline was 29 April 2022, and for the rest of them by 30 June 2022. Although the Agency has prepared the documentation for conducting new open procurement procedures but it is not clear whether they will be able to be completed before the expiry of these contracts, as they may be contested by some of the participants. Therefore, after the expiry of the existing contracts, the Agency will find itself unable to fulfil its obligations as no new contracts will be concluded with contractors. The proposed draft decision will allow the unfinished 278 sites to be completed, enable the necessary payments to be made and suppress social tensions. To a question of MP Zarko Marinov whether the unit prices will be increased and whether all sites will be able to be completed Minister Karadzhov replied that there will be no change in prices and the objects will be able to be completed. Mr. Marinov said he would support the project in a personal capacity, but they still have no decision of the group on how to vote in plenary. People's representative Elena Guncheva raised the question of the status of the contracts, whether they are insignificant or destructive, whether someone has declared their invalidity, because if the contracts are invalid, the additional agreements will be such. Minister Karadzhov replied that there are only doubts expressed in the Working Group Report. In his speech, the national representative Nikolay Nankov raised the question of the competence of the working group, noting that it is not a competent authority to rule on the legality of the contracts concluded. According to him, the presented project is outside the competence of the National Assembly, as the issues are entirely within the competence of the executive. People's representative Georgi Georgiev pointed out that he was against the inclusion of the Project on the agenda, as this is not a matter of the competence of the National Assembly, and the MPs do not have all the information in order to be able to make a decision. People's representative Manol Genov stressed that the case is obviously serious and this requires a solution to the problem in the interest of both the state and the contractors and their employees. People's representative Tsvetan Enchev drew attention to the legal side of the issue concerning the expressed doubts about the invalidity of the contracts and stated that this ambiguity cannot be properly decided. The President of the Commission Mr. Nastimir Ananiev noted that the submitted version of the draft decision does not change anything in substance, but improves the text in legal and technical terms. He drew attention to the problem that the contracts for ongoing repairs and maintenance have made and new constructions and major repairs, so the Ministry should be given the opportunity to complete the inspection and to establish clearly whether and on which contracts there are violations and from this point of view the proposal for payment of 50 per cent is correct, as the decision gives the Council of Ministers the opportunity to assess how to approach the various contracts on the sites referred to in the Annexes to the Agency's Report. Mr. Ananiev also raised the question of road safety, which is directly related to the Agency's ability to carry out its duties. National Representative Aleksandar Nenkov said that it is essentially proposed that another should be held responsible, while for a whole year in the Ministry they were engaged in other activities and expressed doubts that the Working Group Report and its conclusions were made under pressure. Mr. Mladen Shishkov also expressed his position that an attempt is being made to transfer the problem to GERB, although even Minister Karadzhov has not allowed such a thing. National Representative Petya Avramova explained that the contracts were concluded during the management of GERB but after legal procurement. She said she was not aware of the report on the basis of which someone had decided to terminate the contracts. The decision must be made on the basis of objective information. The National Assembly is not a party to the treaties and cannot decide to extend them in such a case it would be better to declare the contracts for which they are active within the period for which they are concluded, and it is five years. People's representative Bogomil Petkov said he respects the position and opinions of all the MPs who have spoken, but a solution must be found, as the minister is in a stalemate, not looking for who is responsible for what. People's representative Lozko Lozev also stressed that the minister and his team are looking for a solution to the problem and that is why we should look forward and not back and said that he would support the draft solution. Representatives of the parliamentary groups of GERB, DPS and Resurrection announced that they will not participate in the vote. On the basis of the discussions and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 9 votes in favour of the National Assembly, without prejudice to and abstention, is proposed to adopt a draft decision to take action in relation to the found danger of becoming impossible for the Agency of Road Infrastructure. No 47-254-02-36, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev, Yordan Terziyski, Lozko Losev, Victoria Vassileva, Borislav Gutsanov, Snezhanka Trajanska, Manol Genov, Andrei Mihaylov and Tosko Yordanov on 30 March 2022 with the following wording: ? RESPONSIBILITY? to take action by the Road Infrastructure Agency to carry out the activities of maintaining the Republican Road Network The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with the Report of the Agency of Road Infrastructure on 30 March 2022 concerning the found danger of the failure of the Agency of Road Infrastructure on the implementation of the activities of maintaining Republican roads throughout the country and in order to ensure the safety and health of users of Republican roads HAS DECIDED Approves the Road Infrastructure Agency to take the following legal and factual actions: 1. The Road Infrastructure Agency to pay from its established budget for 2022 50 per cent of all financial obligations of the Agency arising from activities carried out on the basis of maintenance contracts (preventive, ongoing, winter and emergency repair works) on Republican roads, including repairs to separate road sections, repair of bridge facilities and tunnels, and to pay 100 per cent of all financial obligations of the Road Infrastructure Agency arising from contracts for the supply and installation of restrictive systems, of contracts for the production, supply and installation of road signs and of contracts for marking on the territory of the Republican road network, as well as of obligations under monthly and emergency contracts for the maintenance of Republican roads. In addition, payments made to the Road Infrastructure Agency in connection with actual implementation activities awarded on the basis of maintenance contracts (preventive, ongoing, winter and recovery works in emergency situations) on Republican roads, on contracts for the supply and installation of restricted road systems, on contracts for the making of horizontal marking and on contracts for the production, supply and installation of road signs with permanent and variable dimensions of vertical signalling of Republican roads, may be paid by the Road Infrastructure Agency after the adoption of the relevant act of the Council of Ministers at the amount specified by the Council of Ministers. 2. The Road Infrastructure Agency shall undertake all necessary legal and factual actions on the award of new activities under the concluded maintenance contracts (preventive, ongoing, winter and repair works in emergency situations) on Republican roads, on supply and installation contracts for restricted road systems, on horizontal marking contracts and on production, supply and installation contracts for road signs with permanent and variable vertical signalling dimensions on Republican roads: (a) until the signing of new contracts with the relevant subject-matter with contractors selected as a result of open procedures under the Public Procurement Act carried out in 2022; (b) but no later than 30 September 2022, including by concluding additional agreements with the above-mentioned contracts to amend their deadline. The payment of the obligations arising from the implementation of the activities referred to in the first sentence shall be carried out by the Road Infrastructure Agency from the Agency's established budget for 2022. 3. The Road Infrastructure Agency shall take all necessary legal and factual actions in order to ensure that all activities initiated on the basis of current maintenance contracts (preventive, ongoing, winter and emergency repair) on Republican roads are completed in due time and fully completed. The payment of the obligations arising from the implementation of the activities referred to in the first sentence shall be carried out by the Road Infrastructure Agency. 1 sentence second of the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u531	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Now I suggest we move on to the Committee on Budget and Finance Report. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u532	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. ♪ I can't believe on the draft decision to take action in connection with the found danger of becoming impossible for the Agency of Road Infrastructures and for carrying out the activities of maintaining the Republican road network, No 47-254-02-36, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev, Yordan Ivov Terziyski, Lozko Stefanov Lozev, Viktoria Dimitrova Vasileva, Borislav Gutsanov Gutzanov, Snezhanka Raychova Trayanska, Manol Trifonov Genov, Andrey Nikolaev Mihailov and Toshko Yordinov Hadjitodorov on 30 March 2022. At an extraordinary meeting held on 14 April 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works... Grozdan Karadzhov Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works; from the Ministry of Finance Rositsa Velkova and Andrey Tsekov Deputy Ministers; from the Road Infrastructure Agency............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The draft decision presented by Mr. Ananiev provides for a partial payment of financial obligations of the Agency for Road Infrastructure for the award of activities and the completion of the activities entrusted to the contracts concluded by the Agency for Road Infrastructure for the maintenance of the Republican Road Network, the placing of restrictive systems, signs and markings on the territory of the country. Between 2018 and 2020 34 contracts were concluded for the maintenance of Republican roads at a total estimated value of 711 720 000 BGN for which activities were actually awarded for 3.3 billion. lv. As a result of the legal conclusions of the IC Report. No 04.04-76 of 1 October 2021 of the Working Group in the period October This puts the Road Infrastructure Agency in an inability to fulfil its legal obligation to maintain Republican roads throughout the country. The actions which the Road Infrastructure Agency can initiate in this welded situation are to renegotiate the contracts so that the moment of their termination is linked to the conclusion of a new contract as a result of the procedures opened in this 2022 under the Public Procurement Act. Apart from the above, there is also non-payment of implemented and accepted activities under these contracts. The total amount due for completed tasks under contracts for the ongoing maintenance of the Republican roads, including repairs of separate road sections, repair of bridge facilities and tunnels is total of BGN 1 041 518 959. In 2021 and 2022 activities were carried out under supply and installation contracts for restrictive systems, horizontal marking, production, delivery and installation of road signs, and during this period there were also obligations under monthly and extraordinary tasks under the contracts for maintenance of the Republican road network of 135 127 160 BGN. These activities are within the scope of current road maintenance. The specific risks of non-payment of implemented and certified tasks under ongoing maintenance contracts for Republican roads are expressed in deepening the problems in the road sector and persons employed therein, as well as in increasing tensions in the road sector. In this sense, the proposal is to assess the potential risk of non-compliance with the maintenance activities following the termination of the existing contracts and to support the Road Infrastructure Agency in the award of activities to maintain the existing contracts, despite the fact that the estimated value of those contracts is exceeded at present. A new version of the draft decision is also presented at the time of the examination of the draft decision, which does not change the meaning and content of the decision. In the course of the discussion Prof. Gechev expressed his opinion that the group he represented will support the draft decision, as the factual situation with the maintenance of the road network and payments are of particular importance. He expressed concern that the National Assembly should not create wicked practice in the future. Mr. Karimanski stressed that they would also support the proposal by sharpening the attention that it must be clearly written in it who will exercise control and specify where the funds for its implementation will be provided. People's representative Kiril Ananiev asked why one contract will be paid 50 percent and the other 100 percent. Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova believes that with the proposal instead of solving the problem, it can deepen. She pointed out that all contracts were concluded under the Public Procurement Act, are orderly and should not be an arbitrator in resolving the dispute with legal persons, which is not a matter of his competence. According to her, the API has the means to repay it. Attracting the Committee on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption to the National Assembly on Case is nonsense. Mr. Yordan Tsonev appealed to the National Assembly not to interfere in solving problems between individuals. He believes that the Council of Ministers, by decree, can solve the payment problem. Mrs. Diana Rusinova appealed for the solution of the situation created by supporting the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and Road Safety. People's representative Vladimir Marinov raised questions as to whether the money is available under the budget of the MPD and the decision for 50 percent of the payment will solve the problem of the companies, whether there is or not a solution of the National Assembly. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadjov replied that the National Assembly, supporting the draft decision, does not give indulgence and does not sign a blank check. National Representative Petar Chobanov said money should be provided if the National Assembly wants to solve the problem. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held and the following results were obtained: For 5, there is no objection, abstention 7, with which the Budget Committee did not accept the proposal. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance suggests that the National Assembly should not adopt a draft decision to take action in relation to the identified danger of the failure of the Agency of Road Infrastructures to carry out the activities of maintaining the Republican Road Network, No 47-254-02-36, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u533	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Now let's hear the report of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u534	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly. "COMMODITY" on the draft decision to take action in relation to the identified danger of the failure of the Road Infrastructure Agency to carry out the activities of maintaining the Republican Road Network, No 47-254-02-36, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev, Yordan Terziyski and a group of MPs on 30 March 2022. At its regular meeting held on 13 April 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Decision. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Grozdan Karadzhov, Minister, Mr. Yavor Penchev, Deputy Minister, and Mr. Zapriyan Ignatov, Legal Consult; Mr. Andrey Tsekov, Deputy Minister of Finance; Mr. Todor Vassilev, Chairman of the Management Union and Mrs. Diana Rusinova. On behalf of the importer, the draft decision was presented by the MP Yordan Terziyski, who indicated that it aims to ensure the safety and protection of the life and health of users of Republican roads. The proposed draft decision proposes the National Assembly to approve the implementation of legal and factual actions by the Road Infrastructure Agency, on the basis of which 50 percent of all the financial obligations of the Agency arising from the activities carried out to maintain Republican roads, as well as the full amount of all financial obligations under contracts for the supply and installation of restrictive systems, for production, supply and installation of road signs, for marking on the territory of the Republican Road Network and obligations under assigned extraordinary tasks. It is proposed that the additional payment for the amounts applied for to the Road Infrastructure Agency will be made after the adoption of an act of the Council of Ministers and in the case of really implemented activities. By the Draft Decision, the Road Infrastructure Agency is obliged to undertake by 30 September 2022 all necessary legal and factual actions on the award of new activities under the contracts concluded for the maintenance, supply and installation of restricted road systems, for horizontal marking, as well as for the production, delivery and installation of road signs under the open procedures under the Public Procurement Act carried out in 2022. The Agency undertakes to ensure the timely implementation of the contracts concluded and the payment will be carried out in steps from the established budget of the Agency for 2022 following an act of the Council of Ministers. In the discussion of the draft decision took part the MPs Andrey Mihailov, Milen Mateev, Ekaterina Zaharieva, Atanas Slavov, Anna Alexandrova, Branimir Balachev, Filip Popov, Iva Miteva, Tsvetan Enchev and Miroslav Ivanov. Mr. Yavor Penchev presented specific information on public procurement conducted in 2018 and 2020 and the contracts concluded, indicating that the final value of the contracts exceeds significantly the estimated price. He added that agreements were concluded with contractors for early termination of the contracts for repair and maintenance of the Republican road network and the road network would not be maintained until new contracts were concluded. Mr. Penchev emphasized on the lack of legal possibility for payment of the sums due under the contracts and therefore believes that a sanction is necessary for the National Assembly. Mr. Andrey Tsekov noted that a significant problem is the exceeding of the value of the activities carried out, as well as the subject of the contracts and the type of activities agreed. He added that these activities go beyond the subject of public procurement and therefore constitute unlawful procurement and illegal construction. National Representative Andrey Mihailov pointed out that the proclamation of nullity or destruction of a treaty is within the jurisdiction of the court and emphasized on the need to specify where the funds will come from and to sign the conditions under which the debts will be paid. People's representative Ekaterina Zaharieva said the proposed solution would be unconstitutional, which is why GERB-SDS parliamentary group will not participate in the vote and added that the National Assembly has no competence to make such decisions and cannot seize executive functions. She noted that such a decision violates the principle of separation of powers, as well as the rule of law. Mrs. Zaharieva raised questions as to how it will be assessed for the amount of payments due to the contractors. National Representative Andrey Mihaylov made an editorial proposal in this section. 1 of the draft decision to delete the words from its adopted budget for 2022 and to create a sentence second with the following wording: the funds to be paid from the central budget. The motion was put to the vote and voted out by 2 votes for the vote, without the votes against the vote and 10 votes abstention. After the discussion, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with 11 votes for the Council, without the opposition and 2 votes, supported, in principle, the draft decision to take action in relation to the found danger of the inability of the Road Infrastructure Agency to carry out the activities of maintaining the Republican Road Network, No 47-254-02-36, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev, Jordan Terziyski and a group of MPs and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION to take action by the Road Infrastructure Agency to carry out the activities of maintaining the Republican Road Network The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to the Report of the Agency of Road Infrastructure on 30 March 2022 concerning the found danger of the failure of the Agency of Road Infrastructure on the implementation of the activities of maintaining Republican roads throughout the country and in order to ensure the safety and health of users of Republican roads, HAS DECIDED Approves the Road Infrastructure Agency to take the following legal and factual actions: 1. The Road Infrastructure Agency to pay from its established budget for 2022 50 per cent of all certified prior to the entry into force of the decision financial obligations of the Agency arising from activities carried out on the basis of maintenance contracts (preventive, ongoing, winter and repair works in emergency situations) on Republican roads, including repairs to separate road sections, repair of bridge facilities and tunnels, as well as to pay 100 per cent of all financial obligations of the Road Infrastructure Agency arising from contracts for the supply and installation of restrictive systems, on contracts for production, supply and installation of road signs and on contracts for marking on the territory of the Republican Road Network, as well as on obligations under monthly and extraordinary contracts for the maintenance of Republican roads. 2. Additional payments other than those under point (c) 1 in relation to the amounts received to the Road Infrastructure Agency on the actual implementation of activities awarded on the basis of maintenance contracts (preventive, ongoing, winter and emergency repair works) of Republican roads, on contracts for the supply and installation of restricted road systems, on contracts for the making of horizontal marking and on contracts for the production, supply and installation of road signs with permanent and variable dimensions of vertical signalling of Republican roads, may be carried out by the Road Infrastructure Agency (Additional payments) under this point. Additional payments shall be made in amount and on the basis of a decision of the National Assembly and on the basis of a Report drawn up by the Interdepartmental Working Group for the establishment of the activities actually implemented (as established by Order No RD-02-14-160/07.02.2022 of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and Order No LMF-91/07.02.2022 of the Ministry of Finance) and reviewed by the Commission on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption. 3. The Road Infrastructure Agency shall undertake all necessary legal and factual actions for the award of new activities under the concluded maintenance contracts (preventive, ongoing, winter and repair works in emergency situations) on Republican roads, on supply and installation contracts for restricted road systems, on contracts for horizontal marking and on contracts for production, supply and installation of road signs with permanent and variable vertical signalling dimensions on Republican roads for the period: A/ Until the signing of new contracts with the relevant subject-matter with contractors selected as a result of open procedures under the Public Procurement Act carried out in 2022, B/but not later than 30 September 2022, including by concluding additional agreements to the above-mentioned contracts, with which to amend only the deadline of their validity if necessary and for a period not exceeding the period referred to in point (B). The payment of the obligations arising from the implementation of the activities referred to in the first sentence shall be carried out by the Road Infrastructure Agency. Two sentence two of the decision. 4. The Road Infrastructure Agency shall take all necessary legal and factual actions in order to ensure that all activities initiated on the basis of current maintenance contracts (preventive, ongoing, winter and emergency repair) on Republican roads are completed in due time and fully completed. The payment of the obligations arising from the implementation of the activities referred to in the first sentence shall be approved in advance by a decision of the National Assembly on the basis of reports submitted by the Road Infrastructure Agency and examined by the Commission on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption under the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u535	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Now a serious situation has happened here indisputably. We have an submitted draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u536	Three versions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u537	No, there's one imported. From there on, the Regional Commission has proposed in its draft decision some, I would say, rather editorial amendments. The Legal Commission has proposed other amendments. Since the Legal Committee is a little more serious, I will try now, before I open the discussion, to start from the beginning of the project itself and to specify each of the committees where she has made proposals for amendment. And I thank the Budget Committee for also not proposing separate corrections. [[Radio.]] I read the draft decision as submitted: A decision to take action in relation to the identified danger of becoming impossible for the Road Infrastructure Agency to carry out the activities of maintaining the Republican road network. I ask that each committee chairman monitor, so that we can specify exactly where the adjustments are. There are no adjustments so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u538	Can we still get...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u539	Who's the one who got in? If you'd like to open the door... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u540	It's an importer. These are technical repairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u541	Yes, I agree with Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u542	For procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u543	All right, here's the drill, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u544	Mr. Chairman, thank you. My procedure is in the way you're being led, and I'm going to try to help you. Please stop this madness and return these solutions projects to the technical, legal and any editorials that have been made. That they have no connection with the Rules, it is clear that you should send them back to where they belong, in fact they have no place in plenary or in the National Assembly, and that we should not do this nonsense, with an excuse here in plenary you should try from two decisions of a committee to put together one which is not in principle its place here. I'm doing a procedure to postpone the point, to terminate the meeting. As you wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u545	Mr. Letifov, do you make a procedural motion to terminate the meeting?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u546	Yeah, I do. [[Replications of MP Yordan Tsonev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u547	I understand, but... [[Heckling]] I can't hear you, Mr. Gadget. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u548	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I am making a reverse procedural proposal to continue the sitting and to examine this point. I think we have enough mechanisms to specify exactly which draft decision we are going to see, who we are going to debate and what we are going to vote on. In the end, that will be the decision of the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u549	Colleagues, before we move on to the vote, Mr. Ananiev, can you just hear me, according to the Regional Commission's changes to the initial submitted project, I would like to point out. The changes are as follows: In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 at the end of the paragraph after the Council of Ministers....................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u550	It's not like that, it's not like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u551	Okay. Let's vote on Mr. Letifov's proposal. It's for an adjournment. The opposite opinion was made by Victoria Vasileva. Voting mode. They voted 203 MPs: for 89, against 65, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, I'm gonna give you 15 minutes off. [[(crowd cheering, ……]] in which we will specify the exact editorials to know what to vote on. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u552	I'm resuming the hearing. First of all, I will point out what are the editorials made by the Regional Commission in relation to the main text by importer, and they are as follows: 1 at the end of the point after the Council of Ministers added the text to the amount indicated by the Council of Ministers. This is one of the editorial amendments of the Regional Commission. I see that in point. 2 are separated two points which otherwise correspond to the import text but are exported in separate points. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 in the second row after............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In the last sentence, instead of the previous sentence, he wrote the first sentence. In the Legal Committee, changes are more significant: 1 in the second row after Also in the Legal Commission t. 1 ends up next to the text "Republikan roads" and the next part of the point. 1 is as by importer in the Regional Commission, and in the Legal Commission it is exported to the Law Commission. 2 and here the text has already undergone more substantial changes. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 in the Legal Commission, which appears t. 2 in the Regional Commission and by importer, the difference is only in point (b) (i) where the word is added only and otherwise there are no other changes. In the last point in the last sentence the payment of the obligations that will arise from the implementation of the activities referred to in the sentence is proposed by the Legal Committee: The legal committee shall be approved in advance by a decision of the National Assembly on the basis of reports submitted by the Office of Road Infrastructure and discussed by the Committee on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption under the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. As the proposals of the Regional Commission are the smallest in number and the smallest in substance, and those of the Legal Commission are more serious as a number, and as substantial amendments, we will do the following in the vote: first of all, Mrs. Atanasova, there is an importer project and two on the Commission. First, we will vote on the Draft Legal Commission as the broadest. [[Noise and lines: Won't there be debates?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u553	Wait a minute, there's gonna be debate. Of course there will be debates, please. I'm just trying to figure out what we're gonna do in the end. First, we will vote on the draft of the Legal Commission. If it is accepted, we end this, and if it is not, we move on to the smaller range, which is the Regional Commission, if it is not accepted, we move on to the smallest in scope, namely by importer. Of course, if there's a better offer, I'm here. I'm opening the discussion on the item on the agenda. For a statement? You want an importer's opinion? Okay, first opinion from the importer and I'm recording Toshko Yordanov for speech afterwards. I will also give the floor to Radomir Cholakov for procedure. An importer's opinion please, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u554	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we have a very complicated case, tangled by colleagues from GERB, of course. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u555	Can I have the text, please?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u556	It was tangled in 2018 when the contracts were signed. In 2018 the API, which has to sign contracts on current repair and maintenance, is actually starting to expand the scope of the contracts and is starting to carry out new construction, reconstruction, major renovations. That's actually how you get around ZUT. That is why we are in this state at the moment, as most contracts signed in April. In addition to the fact that the activities outside the scope have been carried out, it is understood that the last regular management will not return to power, the contracts that are worth 770 million at some point are worth 3.3 billion. We have a huge problem, as we are now becoming hostage to these circumstances and with the solution we need to choose whether to solve the case now so that there can be road support for the upcoming summer season and also road safety, or to continue checking the contracts themselves. By the way, there is now an interdepartmental commission that is drawn up between the MRB and the Ministry of Finance, which checks the contracts themselves, so that we can know exactly what happened. The point is, it takes time, and a decision has to be made. I support him, and I think that a decision should be made in principle. Some part must be paid, but it is very key and important to have control and this control should be from the National Assembly, because there is a precedent here that cannot be made without such a decision. The decision is now being made here, and that is why we need control to be here, otherwise if we are not going to make a decision here, then we need to look for some other mechanism to solve the problem itself. We have a lot of decisions that have been made in the last year in some way and there is a report, by the way, that you can get acquainted with, it is from the office, which also shows much of the problems, but in order to be able to unleash work on the roads for repair and maintenance, we still have to make some decisions and, of course, the majority will take it in plenary. I hope, as I said, that this decision will release funds now, in the proposals almost all options there will be a 50% payment, but with maximum, strict control by the National Assembly. Otherwise, if there is no such control, I would not support it, as this is taxpayers' money, it is a public resource for which we cannot sign an empty check for someone who has done what they want in the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u557	I want the word as an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u558	Colleagues, how many times as an importer? Okay, but more opinions than importers? no. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u559	Mr. Chairman, thank you for accepting my arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u560	Normally only one should be an importer, but okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u561	Yes, but since the President of the Regional Commission then allowed himself to speak as an importer, there must be a balance. After all, I'm an importer. That's where my signature stands. I have to confess something to the National Assembly, although I am an importer and there is my signature, this proposal, as well as the other proposal is made by the Prime Minister, by Asen Vassilev and is edited by their associate Lena Borislavova, so we have... [[Applause from IHN.]] I was on the Council of Ministers when it happened. The Minister of Regional Development's proposal was to release this money by a decision of the Council of Ministers... [[Noise and lines.]] By decree. The Prime Minister and the Finance Minister suggested that this should pass through parliament with a decision. They were given a solution. They read it, edited it a few times. The last edit was of the collaborator Lena Borislavova, after which it was sent to the National Assembly and we sign as coalition partners. Then the circus started because of BNB, and they didn't like it anymore. Then there is a new proposal again from the same world Trinity, which for some vague reasons entered the Legal Commission. From there, I hope that someone in this Chamber will explain whether they could even go to the Legal Commission, say here about corrupt practices, because they are hinting that there should have been control in parliament. Something that all those who I am not a lawyer have become aware that this is unconstitutional because there is executive and legislative authority and it is not the job of the legislature to assist as executive. [[Applause from GERB-SDS, DPS and ITN.]] So, Prime Minister Asen's proposal... Cyril Petkov... [[(Laughter from GERB-SDS and DPS, shouts from GERB-SDS:]] Wrong. Lapsus, it's a link. ...to the Finance Minister and Mrs. Lena Borislavova was to be precise because we have doubts about how these contracts were made, 50% to be given directly to the companies, the remaining 50% pass through a special interdepartmental commission. It is true that in this interdepartmental committee, the majority are from the Ministry of Finance, not the Ministry of Finance, but now they have decided so. This committee is checking the contracts anyway and would have said of the remaining 50% how much percentage to be paid according to the work they have done, which sounded logical to us and coalition we supported it. If there wasn't a job done, there'd be even reverse sanctions. So there can be no corruption scheme through the MRRB, colleagues, and Mr. Prime Minister, and Mr. Finance Minister, who insinuates, as well as Mr. Ananiev, that you allow yourself some lines. That's the truth. Parliament is now up and we, as a coalition, are becoming the laughing stock of the opposition because we are faced with either the Prime Minister's decision, the Finance Minister's and Lena's, or the other Prime Minister's decision and proposal, the Finance and Lena's. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u562	At least by last name, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u563	Mrs. Borislavova, Miss... The respectable one is madam, I think, but anyway Miss Borislavova. We have to choose one of the two. Since we, as a coalition, have supported the first one and are consistent, we will support the first one, I say what Mr. Nastimir Ananiev was good enough to bring in, with the clear awareness of what he was importing. Then he got a little sick and forgot to sign his report, but everybody gets sick, happens, so that's what we're going to support because it was a coalition agreement. The other one is unclear how it came about. Now I understand that people can change their minds, but the difference is a few days, and for some vague reason, it is related to BNB. I don't find a logical connection between the two things either, I just don't. In the same way, it could have been related to the Law that we adopted today on the abolition of the Special Court and the prosecution. Any relationship like that is illogical, and it's light, and I miss the term, because they're gonna punish me again. So this is it, guys, we have to choose one of the two. We are aware of what is the first proposed and approved by everyone, I suggest that we stop holding an opposition fair and vote on the first decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u564	Thank you. First Radomir Cholakov was for a procedure in the manner of conduct or have you lost interest already? Okay. I'm opening the discussion. I'm recording Yordan Tsonev and Iva Miteva. Mr. Ananiev? Procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I beg you to be quiet in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u565	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. Because some lies were uttered by the speaker [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] It just needs to be clarified. I've been listening to the media about...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u566	Colleagues, order please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u567	...who wrote the editing. The document I signed, I signed here in room 18. Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov was by my side when we did the latest editing, and the fellow importers were also when they signed the editing that we brought in here so that we could make some suggestions about where what was written, there is no need to make such suggestions. Here's the deputy prime minister here, he can answer if he was there when it happened or if it didn't happen. [[shows]] Also, to sign a report, he has to be ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u568	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Let's stop here by throwing attacks and get to the point. Yordan Tsonev to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u569	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! We laugh, but it's not funny. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "No, it is not! "]] I would like to remind you that this is the Bulgarian National Assembly, which, under the Constitution, is the supreme authority of power in this country, and all we do is stick to this body, not to us. To us clearly, we will go, others will come, but not to wonder that the rating of parliament... Every new power says the rating was due to the previous one. No, no, it's because of what we're all doing here. I am very grateful to Mr. Yordanov for bringing this clarity, because for several days now, and yesterday in the Budget Committee, I personally am not aware of what is going on. Is there no executive power in Bulgaria, so parliament must become a convention? You know, colleagues, I'm serious, and yesterday in the Budget Committee I said it, we are not opposed to solving this problem. We're not looking for whose fault it was created because the trucks were outside. However, can one problem be solved by smashing the entire rule of law by the Constitution through the laws? Can we begin to perform the functions of executive power? I asked yesterday, and I'm asking today. It is not that there is no solution to this again, because there is a problem created at the end of the speech I will tell you how it could have happened, how it could have resembled him and yet somehow respected the Constitution and the separation of authorities. With this decision we become a country as a parliament in contractual relations between contracting entities and contractors, as you would like to call them, there are so many quality lawyers here, first. Secondly, that's not enough, but we're starting to solve the details of this relationship. For example, how much percentage to be paid, when to pay, what in these contracts is corrupt and what is not? I didn't hear a single person or a colleague say that. Don't you know that which is corrupt, that is legal or illegal, what can be criminalized, because corruption is a criminal act, don't you know that the Constitution didn't give us that right, does it cross your mind? She didn't give that right to any anti-corruption commission. It can control the executive power of this committee, through a plenary decision, and we can adopt anti-corruption legislation. The court system, the court, is the one who says what in a contract is corrupt and what is not, but what is legal and what is not, says arbitration. What are we doing? So cheerfully, and with: You are guilty. No, it's your fault. Well, the first one I brought in was okay, but the second one... Nothing is okay with this decision because it changes the separation of authorities and gasses the Constitution. I'm not talking about the laws here. It's clear. There's a problem. The colleague Karadjov told us what he was, even he said: "No payment is a problem, the problem is how to continue the contracts, because we do not have the right to anexics and we will not only be a country, not only will we try to solve the problem, but in the future any payment for these actions will happen after an explicit decision of the National Assembly. The Interdepartmental Commission shall examine them, submit them to the Anti-Corruption Commission in question and then submit them to the National Assembly. The National Assembly says: 50 BGN. The guy with no money walks naked and barefoot, as they say in that joke. It's up to us, you know? It is not the Minister of Finance, it is not the principal, it is not the contracting authority, it is the National Assembly. Why? Let someone tell me why. How could it look so I wouldn't take up your time, this decision, what could it look like to help the executive? For example, Adhok, I'm telling you: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution, taking into account the critical situation created with the maintenance of the critical infrastructure of Bulgaria according to the National Security Act, taking into account that it should be paid in this way, so a few things in the operative part HAS DECIDED 1. It obliges the Council of Ministers, respectively the relevant contracting entity, to conclude an annex to the extension of contracts which are to maintain this critical infrastructure until competitions are held and new contracts concluded. Here's your point one. The question of their annexation is that we solve it because whether it is right or wrong, in this case we have a critical moment. "2." We entrust the executive to the Council of Ministers, whether it will be in the face of the Ministry of Finance, whether it will be in the interdepartmental commission to make all the payments, checks of the contracts and all the payments it decides to make. 3. Report what has been done to the National Assembly. Maybe in the Anti-Corruption Commission, we can assess what the actions under the parliamentary control of the executive over this decision are. Here is a solution that can be swallowed because there is still a framework, there is compliance with the Constitution, and we entrust the executive to do all the things that the Constitution has given them as powers and as obligations. That's why it's called executive power. Because there's one more moment here. Those 50%, which we will pay to some companies, I do not know who they are, I do not know why 50%, not 20 example, or not 30, if one of them goes to purely hypothetically speak, to appeal for this decision to be paid 50%, you know that in the court the lawyers of the principal, the contracting authority will say: "On what basis? " "Ami" on the basis of a decision of the National Assembly. "Not on the basis of the contract between the principal and the company concerned, but on the basis of a decision of the National Assembly and the match ends in the court. Do you understand? Thus, we are squeezing the right to appeal an executive decision on a treaty, because we are pronounced, and we are a slightly more special institution. That is why I proposed to you yesterday to the Budget Committee, and now I propose it to you: such a text can be adopted and we will adopt it with a relatively greater consensus. What percentage will we say how much to pay the Minister of Finance? Well, when he's a minister of finance, he's gonna set the percentages, and the principal, and he's gonna take responsibility for that. Come on, you decide it so that I can punish them because they are corrupt schemes........................................................................... I'm sorry. Let's guard the authority of this institution a little bit. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u570	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any lines for Yordan Tsonev? Here you go, Mr. Zhelyazkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u571	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I would agree with much of your thesis and the arguments you have put forward. You asked the question: why 50%? That's the question we ask ourselves, too. Maybe the answer is because there's so much money. The other money's gone. There's so much money in there right now. You're asking another question that I couldn't hear the answer to. The question is: why would the Anti-Corruption Commission consider it? Dear colleagues, when there is a contract that is a bond between the parties, you know Patacta sunt servanda that must be executed, even if the contracting entity is declared corrupt, even if the contractor's representative is declared corrupt after years, the bond remains. The State will continue to owe the payment of the activities carried out as referred to in point 1. However, they will be interest rates. These interest rates will weigh on the budget. Someone's gonna say it's a budget damage. I missed this thing in argumentation, Mr. Tsonev. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u572	Thank you, Mr. Zhelyazkov. Honest Mitev for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u573	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! If we are to speak the truth, the truth is that when one of the four coalition partners speaks against the other three in the stands and the opposition applauds him very strongly, it is worrying for all Bulgarian citizens. [[Noise and lines.]] On the other hand, I understand very clearly why GERB does not want any control over these funds, I understand why the DPS does not want any control over these funds so that through certain companies they can flow to a party bank. We understand that. I just don't understand why Mr. Karadjov and why IN also don't want to have control over these funds? Let him have control over these funds. We'll give you half right away. Let the other half have control. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u574	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there a third line? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Ademov, look at the regulations. A minister's word is given as soon as he wants it. [[Noise and lines.]] It's not like that, you're wrong, Mr. Tsonev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u575	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Mitev, it's disturbing when you tell lies. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Since February, I have been the initiator of the Interdepartmental Commission between the Ministry of Regional Development and that of the Finances, to tell you day and night, checks these contracts for irregularities. So telling me that I don't want to have control is a lie. As early as Sunday in the bTV broadcast, I think it was, I said that I could not disagree with this any more committees and more bodies, especially a body such as the National Assembly, the highest authority in our country, to check these transactions, these assignments. These are things that were done before me. There's no signature on any person on my team. There is no reason why I would not want them to be checked by the National Assembly. On the contrary, I would also like to declare here that I want as many committees to check these transactions as possible to make it clear that what the experts of the Interdepartmental Commission will pull out, but it has been appointed again by two ministers from the coalition, and the results of these committees will be rechecked. I take that as a sign of trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u576	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there a third line, colleagues? Mr. Bachiysky, come in. [[Heckling]] However, the line is to Mr. Tsonev's statement. If you want to take an attitude towards the statement then separately. [[Heckling]] Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u577	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! To Mr. Zhelyazkov, thank you for the line. After all, you're a brilliant lawyer. You have the right to give me a line like that. I accept it. For a reason, I said that the Minister of Finance should decide how much and when, in relation to what the budget has and what the options are. There are opportunities to negotiate with the companies and for deferred payment. There's a lot of possibilities. My note was not to make it the National Assembly, but to make it the executive power. To Mr. Mitev. Dear young colleague, it is a manifestation of poor upbringing, and young people don't like to have bad upbringing when even the opposition is trying to help, you attack it with incorrect accusations, let's not use a heavier word. We have neither assigned nor signed nor been part of the ruling majority, nor do I care which firm wants how much or how much I have to take. We care about the Constitution, we care about legality, we care about institutionality. I think from the first day of this National Assembly's work, I've been trying to show it to you myself. Not for anything else, but because I consider myself obliged to do so. After all, this is the future of the National Assembly - a large part of you - this is the future of Bulgarian political life. Coming out here and saying, 'cause they don't want to. On the contrary, we want to see who did what and how, but to do it the authorities that under the Constitution are authorized, not you, because that's what Assen told you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u578	I didn't understand who Asen was. It doesn't matter. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u579	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I'm leaving this book here. I'm not gonna quote her. I assume you've all read it. Mr. Tsonev, with great respect to you, I understand the desire to find a way out of the situation in which colleagues have entered themselves within some constitutional legal framework, only art. 86 of the Constitution says that the National Assembly is adopting a decision that does not help them. I'll tell them what I think can help them. Before that, I will say that there is no earthly power in the world that will make me vote such decisions, edited as you want edited. There's no such power. I have some respect, some respect, and I have no intention of sacrificing them. I have something else to say. Yesterday morning, during some debate, we exchanged lines with Mr. Gurov and I said maybe something disrespectful about him. Then I got all twisted up and I found a way to ask for an apology on the sidelines and he said, "Okay, it's okay, it happens, it's forgiven." I'm relieved too. I'm saying this because when you're wrong, it's good to ask for forgiveness, when you say some wrong words, it's good to ask for forgiveness, to apologize, and it'll make you feel better, and things will start to work out for you. In this particular case, some task force at the Ministry of Regional Development once took into account, looking at the treaties, that perhaps something there was nullity or destruction. And there goes an avalanche of words, and a thousand times it repeats: contracts are void, contracts are illegal, contracts are destroyed. And the Minister got himself into a chute that he couldn't get out of, and the Council of Ministers got in, and everybody got in. They are trying to bring in the National Assembly as well. As long as the answer is: the contracts are not illegal. They didn't! And if you say that the contracts are not illegal, I do not want you to apologize to my colleagues from GERB, but we will understand it, and you will see how you will be relieved, and this problem will be dropped by itself and we do not need to take any decisions. So you'll accept them, we won't accept them. We don't have to go to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court to tell you what it thinks. The only thing that is asked is to take back the words, because they were unfaithful, manipulative, misleading, piercing. They intended to discredit some political opponent in some political debate and had nothing to do with this textbook. Nothing to do with it! So my recommendation, an alternative to Mr. Tsonev's recommendation, is: take back your words, admit that these contracts are regular, admit that they are not illegal, and if you want to apologize, everything will go its course. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u580	Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u581	Dear Mr. Cholakov, dear colleagues! You guys put your book away, but I really wanted to take out and put here a printout of the Code of Conduct on the territory. Why? With this addition, I will make the case even more complicated. It's just that sometimes life is complicated, it's not black and white, it's not manic. Because besides the subject of illegal contracts, the subject of illegal construction was brought in, wasn't it? By the way, if that's true, if someone for something commissioned as an ongoing repair has allowed themselves to build, if that's true, Minister, it's illegal construction. Construction without properly issued construction papers, without a building permit is illegal construction. In that sense, before you pay someone, if there are such cases, you first have to tear down what was built. In this sense, I suggest that we expand the conversation, Mr. Cholakov, to do a complex legal analysis, apart from what needs to be paid, to clean up and what needs to be broken down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u582	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Are there any other lines? There is such a people, for a second line. The third line is that colleagues Terziyski and Nastimir Ananiev share it. [[Heckling]] Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u583	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear Mr. Cholakov! I'm going to give some facts about the legality of the treaties. In front of me is a table how on 20 November 2019 a company with an abbreviation EP concluded a contract of 18 million. BGN, then with additional agreements, rose to 320 million. lv. The same company won another contract on 21 October 2019 and from 28 million. lv. Under contract, contracts increase by 266 million. lv. [[SIGHS]] , is not much increase and another company DZD, which on 14 June 2019 entered into a contract for 23 million and increased to 200 million. lv. So far so good, it's all legal. The same two companies, however, participate in a consortium in the construction of a lot of the road Mezdra "Botevgrad," the same two companies. Here before me is an additional agreement from the date 29 December 2020, i.e. in almost identical period of time, which two companies conclude this additional agreement, and they explicitly do everything necessary to prove the existence of unforeseen circumstances, which constitute the basis for applying the provision of art. 116, para. 1, t. 2 of the CPO, namely that it cannot be exceeded 50%. So what happens now? Two companies at the same time almost, under the same legislation, under the same management of the Road Infrastructure Agency, under one public contract know the Public Procurement Act and respect its limit for 50%, however, of the contracts for ongoing repair and maintenance, this restriction does not apply. So much for the legality of your contracts. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u584	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Terziysky, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u585	Mr. Cholakov, I would agree with you, the situation really requires apology and forgiveness, but it requires an apology from the people who signed contracts for 770 million and placed orders for 3.3 billion. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Among the people who deliberately bypassed the Law by assigning major repairs, disguised as current, by the people who allowed the Bulgarian roads to be repaired without the necessary documentation, and by the people who will be responsible for all the victims that are happening because of this. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u586	Thank you, Mr. Terziysky. For the doppelganger, Mr. Cholakov. Here you go. [[Reply.]] We've run out of lines, Mr. Popov. Yes, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u587	Thank you. Let me put it back in the book. [[Heckling]] This is Professor Kozhuharov's bond law book. All lawyers are supposed to have studied it. Any profession in which non-professionals work, in the sense, any person who works a profession and is not a professional, is a dangerous public danger. We are currently watching professional lawyers become socially dangerous. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] We are tearing down right now, as Mr. Tsonev said earlier, the construction of the law. We're just tearing it down in front of the entire parliament and the whole society.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u588	Answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u589	My colleagues who will speak after me will take the essence of the millions. I, as far as I know, colleagues, these are framework agreements... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u590	Colleagues, please, not from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u591	These are framework agreements completely legal. Now, what I'd like to say again, fellow Members, in my answer, because apparently, in the back of his head, because somehow it doesn't make sense. If a contract is illegal, it's insignificant. The contracting authority, in this case, should have lawyers who know how to proceed and how this contract is terminated. The responsibility now whether there is criminal law, civil law, whatever it is, is now another matter. But this contract is terminated. You see, fellow Members, that's when you say the word the contract is foreclosure, you automatically say it's small and according to this textbook and according to what we've studied, certain actions occur in automation. [[Replys: "Answers to the lines! "]] Since the Ministry has not carried out these actions, it means that it is insecure in its claim that the contracts are illegal because otherwise it would have carried out these actions and this conversation would have been over long ago. If the Ministry is insecure that the contracts are illegal, then they're not petty, so they're in force, so they have to be executed. If they want to revise them in the Ministry, there are ways in which to revise them, and why should they even concern the national representation with this issue? And to say again: to push the nerves of the still remaining professional lawyers to break up and to throw this shame on the National Assembly. To admit that contracts are not illegal, and they are not, and your problem is solved, colleagues, and it will make you feel better. Otherwise, if you keep insisting, I insist that these contracts go to court immediately and we don't play any more pranks. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u592	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Minister, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u593	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'd like to bring in an explanation here, because I think two cases are mixed up. In terms of nullity or destructiveness, we have only spoken on cases related to the inhouse award. With regard to the contracts for ongoing repairs and maintenance, no one in the executive power and in the committees in which I have appeared, nor do I think that even Nastimir Ananiev, who is the President of the Commission, has argued anywhere that illegal contracts are involved. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] It's about the opposite. The contracts for ongoing repairs and maintenance are legal, they are in operation and are currently under them are carried out winter maintenance and emergency repairs. These are the two only activities left to operate under these contracts. The contracts are legal and effective because they were concluded as a result of competition and competition procedures under the Public Procurement Act. They were appealed before the court, passed at three instances most of them and entered into force, and only then the contracts were concluded on their basis. The only problem that has been found in the working group, appointed by order of September 2021 as problematic in these contracts, as Mr. Ananiev said, is the transcendence, the significant excess of their volume, which is why they have been terminated. Six of the contracts expire now on 29 April, and everyone else expires on 30 June. Therefore, while all contracts are still in force, there is an option in which to return the old volume of contracts, i.e. the original volume with which they were concluded, and to extend their duration until the public contracts under way are completed and contracts with the new contractors are concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u594	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Miteva, come in, you have a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u595	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Cholakov, this textbook is very old. I don't think it's relevant anymore. I am very sorry that the President of Parliament is not here because I have a lot of questions for him and I think that, having distributed this decision to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, this committee should have solved the problems rather than deepening them. Unfortunately, the President, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, shall allocate this decision to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the seventh day after it has been tabled. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, decisions shall be distributed within three days of their entry into the National Assembly. This happened on April 1st. On 4 April, if, by analogy, the law procedure could have objected to a commission and it could have been further allocated to a committee, this also did not happen. Suddenly, an objection appears on April 6th at 17.06 pm, that notorious Wednesday on which MPs were instructed not to enter the committees. Then, on Thursday morning, the item was on the agenda of the National Assembly. On the seventh day, this decision was allocated to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs without the Commission's leadership being informed. The President of his chapter, explicitly written in the letter to the President of the National Assembly, will quote it to you: I believe it is necessary. It considers that it is necessary when it is first among equals, when there is a Commission guide and it organises its work and where, under the Rules of Procedure, this can only be done at the request of the parliamentary committee concerned. None of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs has been notified of this request by the President of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I would agree to keep quiet if maybe this was done in order to protect public interest. Unfortunately, it was done for the purpose of some procedural grip. Unfortunately, however, what we saw in the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs was the adoption of a decision which completely contradicts the Constitution and which completely contradicts our Bulgarian legislation. The decisions of the National Assembly, colleagues, can be of a regulatory nature and of an abnormal nature, so-called procedural decisions. The decisions rather have the appearance of prescriptions. We in this Parliament, on its first day, have replaced legislation with decisions and turned decisions into laws. Unfortunately, the decision of the National Assembly cannot derogate the Constitution, nor the Rules of the National Assembly, as it is of the rank of law. I would agree if this decision were at least on the basis of § 2 of the Additional Rules of Procedure and it was complementary to the Rules of the National Assembly or was included in the Rules of Procedure in order to obtain at least some rank of law. Unfortunately, it wasn't done either. What I read in the decision adopted by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, I see two new points, again contrary to the Rules of Procedure, as the decisions are adopted in one vote, there are no proposals between the first and second votes and it is unacceptable to replace the decisions of the National Assembly on the substance. They can withdraw and move in if the importers do not agree with what they have imported. There I see that the additional payments are made in amount and on a legal basis approved by a decision of the National Assembly on the basis of a report by an interdepartmental working group and examined by the Commission on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly explicitly specify the powers of that committee. There, I do not see such powers to approve payments. What act, how and how, on the basis of this decision alone, complements the powers of the Commission, which are not complementary to the Staff Regulations, is also not clear to me. I don't know how this decision is really going to be implemented. I also believe that this will be a major legal problem. Unfortunately, with this decision, we are going back in some years, perhaps 30 years ago, and we are merging the state, executive and legislative powers into one. We remove responsibility from the National Assembly. We say that the principle of separation of powers does not work, that the power of power is holding back. We give legislative power to the decisions of the National Assembly and leave everything in the hands of the Constitutional Court to rule on the unconstitutionality of this decision. If this decision of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs is adopted, we will make a decision. And in order for Parliament to be consistent, and to be fair, and to show that we want full control of the executive power, then we will propose a full review by a Temporary Committee in the National Assembly of all obligations, as well as approval of all payments to senior and secondary officers with a budget of state enterprises and to undertakings with a state participation in capital. In this way we will say that we are honest, that we really want control and that we really do this openly and clearly to our voters. Unfortunately, colleagues, I'm not proud of what we're doing today. I would like to tell you that it is not parliamentaryism when you do not respect your Constitution, the laws and regulations for the organization and activities of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u596	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Are there any lines, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Kambarev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u597	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Miteva, I had no intention of getting up, but you mentioned the Anti-Corruption Prevention Commission. I can quote the text, I don't know where you saw that we approved. We're browsing!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u598	What are we looking at?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u599	We look at and come up with an opinion that the National Assembly... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u600	Colleagues, please, not from the spot! Take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u601	Let's read properly, which then the House approves. This is with regard to the Commission. My second point is... I am not sure now are you from a parliamentary group with the Minister and are you of the same opinion, as I hear from you: we do not want to be reviewed by the Commission and by the Chamber of these treaties. We don't want to, come on, I'm going to exaggerate a little bit, but to understand what I'm thinking is transparency. And from Mr. Minister we hear: let them be examined by whom they want these contracts. Lastly, what is your position, we want full transparency... [[Noise and lines.]] How can we not, we can have transparency. Absolutely we can. We can do it! Thank you. [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u602	Mr. Tsonev! Thank you, Mr. Kambarev. Mr. Letifov, you have the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u603	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Miteva, I'll make you a short line. I've been listening to you carefully and you've done a wonderful analysis of what's going on so far. I'm not sure if you can trace everything. I will start from what you said about how decisions are made in the National Assembly and how they are edited are not actually edited. But we are currently looking at several options with the same importers. We heard a moment ago that the real importer of this decision wasn't released, and by testimony. That this decision that we are looking at right now, and it will be accepted by other testimony, is by the Legal Commission. The decision of the Legal Committee will now be voted on because some texts are being sent. I got one by mistake, too. [[GRUNTING BY GERB-SDS.]] And the decision of the Legal Commission will be adopted, and it is not one of these importers. Not importer Mr. Hadjitodorov, but he quoted Lena Borislavova, Kiril Petkov, Asen Vassilev. Let us see this draft decision, which has been tabled by the three new importers, to be withdrawn, to comment and to stick to parliamentaryism, as you said, Mrs. Miteva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u604	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Mr. Ananiev, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u605	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Miteva, you are a very good lawyer that I respect, and sometimes you pass a slalom well along some objects and specifics. Colleague Kambarev said the nuance that the Commission is only considering it does not approve of payment. Your words were literally: approve payment. The Commission does not approve of payment, it only examines the report submitted by the interdepartmental committee. So nuances are very important, because otherwise people get misled. The Commission is merely examining this report. The other thing you said about the proposal you will be submitting for a decision approving budget payments. Actually, we've voted on a budget. We have a completely different case. At the moment we have a problem that the Deputy Prime Minister wants us to solve. Here, Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov here, he wants us to solve this problem. With the budget... we've voted our budget. There is a reply to the Finance Ministry for payments to be made during the year. We're talking here about a case, tangled right here by these colleagues and by their rulers, which we should try to solve. And all I want to do is solve it faster for the sake of road safety. So say: do you want to solve it in full transparency? We are a parliamentary republic, and under the control of the National Assembly. Because it's a precedent, it's not something that's happened in the last 30 years, because 12 years they've ruled everyone knows who. We need to resolve this case so that it can start a clean MRRB.. they have already launched public procurement, and I hope they will start. But there's nothing to pretend we don't solve a problem that's bequeathed by the people who applaud you. It is actually important for me to say, since we are solving the problem, should there be transparency and why we should not use the control of the National Assembly, as there is a precedent for this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u606	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. You have the floor for the duvet, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u607	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the activities of the Anti-Corruption Commission, yes, I have indicated that it is being examined by the Anti-Corruption Commission, but let us note what it says at the beginning:.. in size and on the legal basis..................................................................................................................................... I mean, what kind of act is the National Assembly gonna come up with? The National Assembly this decision who will write it to him? This size and reasons must be somewhere defined and this act must be taken by someone. Well, how? This should happen exactly in this committee, in which the Anti-Corruption Commission went, it should adopt this decision and draw up such a decision if this inter-departmental group did not do so, because this is not stated, and then the National Assembly, based on this decision to rule. There is no way for the National Assembly to write its decisions here alone. And I don't know how much the Anti-Corruption Commission can under its powers really assess the amount and legal basis for payments. Indeed, this decision does not have the character of complementary art. 23 of the subspnc. So maybe your reason should have been something else. With regard to Mr. Ananiev, the National Assembly has two functions: legislative activity and parliamentary control. What function is this decision that I started to get confused in? And with regard to the control that you have said, what I see here in the decision is preliminary parliamentary control. How will the National Assembly, when carrying out preliminary parliamentary control, then carry out parliamentary control of the Constitution?! We're taking it in advance. What will we tell these ministers when we have confirmed their payments in advance? That is why I said that we, after going to this preliminary control, after breaking the Constitution, since there are no laws anymore, propose to repeal the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We don't have to apply it, I see it's working by its own rules and regulations, and we start preliminary control. That's why our decision will be in this direction, Mr. Ananiev. I said that so we could be consistent. Let there be complete control over all the organs in this country. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u608	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Now I give the floor to Peter Chobanov for a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u609	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The decisions you offer us cannot be sanitized as we see them. However, I will do my best in order to clarify yet a very significant part of this decision, to note that, according to the decisions you propose, the payment must be made at the expense of the voted budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for 2022. Explain to me what budget equipment we will be paying old contracts with the budget, which is specifically intended to award a new job, and with what we will pay the new job that we have to assign, that is, the Ministry to assign, and must be carried out in 2022. Once again, we come to the question of what is the source. The source cannot be for an old job. This year's budget of the Ministry, unless we explicitly recorded it in the Budget Act for 2022, and we are not. That is, neither in the money that you predicted at the end of the year to be spent this year, nor in the Budget Act, nor in the Decision of the National Assembly, which again we predicted to spend money this year, there was no provision for this money anywhere. Therefore, I will allow myself at the end of my speech to make an editorial change, but I will also say what is justified. You're all hoping for an update. Most likely the update will not look as you think it will. The reason is the updated medium-term budget forecast, which the Ministry of Finance publishes and which will not become better, even if another five publishes, as from now on the economic situation will deteriorate and thanks to your actions. It envisions a larger gross domestic product, but provides less revenue, provides less expenditure. So, where are you going to fit all your wills and all the need for really update and additional costs?! There is simply nowhere in this updated medium-term budget forecast. So the Minister cannot hope for an update. In addition, in addition to 1 billion. 200,000. BGN, which currently needs 1 billion farmers are also not provided. There's no wire transfer to the company, not a penny. It's two billion and a beak. You ask the Minister in terms of his functions to decide with 2 billion and 300 million task for 4 billion and 600 million. He can't solve it, no matter what he does, and he has no right, because he can't spend on this year's budget for last year's activities. That is why I propose the following editorial change in both the decisions that you have offered to our attention. In the place of the words of its approved budget for 2022, in order to be budgetaryly correct, to comply with the Public Finance Act and the Budget Act, we propose that it be replaced by the words..... transfer from the central budget................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u610	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Thomas Bikov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u611	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Chobanov, I thank you for explaining, instead of the Finance Minister, how things should happen in terms of the Ministry of Finance. And I'm gonna ask you one more time: where is this guy who's been running this whole fair here for a couple of hours? Because it's his whim, 50%, and committees. I'll tell you what committee I'm on. I'm in this cult Anti-Corruption Commission that will distribute and view, as they have written, whatever that means. And our colleagues in our parliamentary group are already making fun of us members because we are me, Mr. Daniel Mitov. As you know, most of you, I'm with theatrical education and political science. I, if I wanted to look at travel company contracts, would be in the Committee for Regional Development and Public Works, I wouldn't be in the Anti-corruption Commission. Mr. Mitov is also political and international. How are you going to let us look?! Why didn't you warn us when you suggested we enter this committee that we would distribute billions there and look around, let's not distribute? What are we gonna do there?! At the same time, while we look at 50%, we investigate which contract is what, whether somewhere was built well, somewhere else was not built well, during that time Mr. Asen Vassilev will not be there, and he in another commission, other commissioners there will decide and they will give us 50% to examine their investigations! What is this thing? You've made us into monkeys in this parliament! I'm telling you. Not to mention how many decisions have been made. And that is why to Mr. Chobanov, it is a line, but please, you are in the Budget Committee, call the Minister of Finance to come and tell him what he thinks about this matter, not to say any people who have been communicating with him one week ago, the other two weeks ago. Where is this guy?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u612	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Ercan Ebatine for the second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u613	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Chobanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u614	Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u615	I look and do not believe my ears, as a famous Bulgarian professor used to say. You are proposing a solution, but tonight the task is how there is no solution. Don't you get that? Under the formula, we're fighting corruption. The question is, how do we figure out that there's no solution?! Because, you see, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister has decided the National Assembly, the Bulgarian business, the coalition partners to be hostages. And I cannot understand how long we will tolerate the caprice of two or three people that the state is hostage to their whims, and the Bulgarian business. That's what they can't decide!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u616	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev. Was that a line? That's the third line...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u617	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chobanov! Yesterday I heard this version that you suggested, I was wondering who would offer it in the hall, you offer it. I answer a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u618	I didn't say it yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u619	No, you didn't say it, someone else said it before you, but it doesn't matter. That's not the point. You are clearly aware that there is no money in the central budget [[noise and lines]] I don't know why you're making such an offer for this expense, but I'll tell you where there is. In fact, as you know, API's budget is 2 billion. And 400 million. lv. And it's for 12 months. For 12 months, given when public procurement is launched, the first payment will be September, I mean, if there is no appeal or delay and so on. So there's money in API, don't worry about it. They haven't started the payments, they've paid in two months, I don't know, maybe 30 million or something like that, maybe 2.4 billion in 12 months, you're a good mathematician, you'll figure out, so there's no problem with the payments themselves. And also, if it turns out that there is, although there is no way, mathematics is very simple, the whole amount we want to pay is 656 million, if I'm not mistaken, we have an update July that is requested, which can clear or balance the payments themselves, if any. For the moment, this budget, which is at stake because of the circumstances and because of this decision that we want to unblock and public procurement, when they are released, this budget is actually available, the money is there. And they may be, of course, up to the limit ceilings, and they're used, but as I said, June, which is in two months, we can make an update if it needs one. I don't think there's a need, because because of the circumstances we have, there's no way to spend that money physically, there's no way 2.4 billion dollars can be spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u620	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait, Mr. Genov, just a second, let's finish this procedure and I'll give you... There's more on the record.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u621	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Bikov, I propose that we call the Deputy Prime Minister on EU funds and that he appear in the Chamber to answer these questions. So much for your offer. Mr. Ebatine, thank you. You have spoken out loud something that we all think, you are absolutely right, it is, we will see for how long and how, who we will tolerate. The business won't stand it, the farmers won't stand it, and the roadmen won't stand it if a decision is made that they don't get anything where we're going. From there on in the central budget there is no money, we hear from a representative of the government, and I am inclined to believe it. He probably has information that he doesn't have any money. I agree, because such information also came out in the media, and since you made some comparison, an allusion or I don't know what it was, now I understand who gave this information to the media. As you understand that I use other people's words, which I never do, I understand who gave this information to the media, and in this information it said the same thing, that there was no money in the central budget. There's 560 million. lv. All in all, after we've paid the pensions. From there, there is really not a billion for farmers, there is no billion and 200, there will be no update because there is no money. When you don't have money, you don't make an update. As shown in the mid-term budget forecast, such an update with these wills, in the way we are currently doing it, is impossible. So the bottom line really is, there's no money. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u622	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Before I give the floor to Branimir Balachev for a statement, I give the floor to Manol Genov for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u623	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u624	Yes, come in, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u625	Mr. Chairman, I just heard Mr. Bikov wondering why he belonged to the Corruption Commission. Indeed his preparation is such for gentle and poetic souls, and this choice he has made himself so that he does not wonder. And when he was looking for someone here in the hall to take responsibility for all the mess we're talking about right now, it's good to look around and look in the room for those who put the mine on these assignments over the years. How come a few hundred million suddenly grew over a billion? I do not want you to enter into a serious discussion with colleagues on this issue, but it is good that when you stand on this platform, you look around and analyze all the circumstances and causes of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u626	Thank you, Mr. Genov, although that was more of a statement than a way to conduct it. Here you are, Mr. Balachev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u627	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It's 10:00. Today I would call this day a difficult day for Bulgarian parliamentaryism and for the supreme authority, whose main task is to make laws and to make right and legal laws in view of what the Constitution dictates to us. I will not dwell on what we have done with the Law on the Judiciary, but I have said it to the Legal Commission yesterday, and I will say it to you today: what we are offered to vote as a body whose powers are related to the legislative authority, and as my colleague Miteva said, with parliamentary control of the executive, we will have such a decision if you have all read it in the different five, six versions that have walked in the last two, three days, you will see that there is no way and we do not have any such powers nor according to art. 84 of the Constitution, neither by the same text of the Rules, nor could we also use § 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions for what is not exactly mentioned in the Rules, or accept that we could do such a work. Because I will allow myself to read to you only the operative part of what is being proposed to you: the National Assembly...................................................................................... 1 We approve of payment. We cannot afford such a thing, we do not have such powers, and this thing will bring about a small act of ours. It is not the contracts whether they are insignificant or not that said Cholakov, only the court can declare a contract as null and void. Let's get this straight, let's talk legal. Any major claims, whether by a prime minister or by I don't know who, are null and void if the court doesn't say that a contract is null and void. So minor contracts can't be declared unilaterally. You can end it unilaterally, but you can't announce it. In this regard, I believe that, in view of this, we cannot and must not accept such a decision. We can do what we can, because there is a problem, we can only do what we can do is to sharpen the attention of the Council of Ministers, and in my opinion the solution to the question is that the Council of Ministers should gather itself on whether it will be with a decree of the Council of Ministers, whether it will be with a solution, it should solve the problem that arose between one year ago or six months ago a predecessor of the Minister of Regional Development decided to accept that OLAF, that yesterday what words I heard, decided to announce some contracts not to pay for them. If he doesn't pay, there are penalties, and so on. And that would lead to a big problem. But the problem will be solved by the Council of Ministers, not us, because we have no business here. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u628	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. A line from Mr. Totev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u629	Mr. Balachev, I want to ask you a question, I'm using the form of a line. Do you think that if Minister Komitova had not terminated these contracts, we would not be dealing with this whole story now because we are currently trying to do what has ended Comitova, to bring him up with some anexes. This is happening right now, which in itself we've heard is some bullshit. And my second question to you, Mr. Balachev, is: with what is currently happening with all the proposals of Asen, Lena and so on, do you feel that the only positive thing we will see from the Ministry of Regional Development during this term, and Mr. Minister, is to protest against the government? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u630	Thank you, Mr. Totev. Use people's last names only. A line from Halil Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u631	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Balachev, my line is for you. I agree with you that it is a sad day for Bulgarian parliamentaryism and for what we are trying to do as a solution. I do not know what to call it, but I will start backwards. You have said these doubts in the contracts here, however, you need to separate things and settle things. On the one hand, the work that has been found and the power and the competent authorities have no observations on it, it must be paid off. Colleagues said, "That's the way it is in the fall to get away with it, on the one hand. On the other hand, what is not done as a job is suspected to be given to the competent authorities, to pronounce them and to pronounce them, then is there an destructiveness of these contracts, invalidity and so on. But there's something else. The judge of this decision, because we are still looking at all the draft decisions that have offered us the same names for importers, but actually the importers found out that they are different. They claimed that without taking any additional loans, 40 bridges could be built on the Danube 8 billion, and we are arguing for 2.3 billion, which are virtually gone, half of them have been spent. We got a confession that there's no money. This is a sad day for the Bulgarian business, for the Bulgarian public and especially for the Bulgarian budget. It's a very sad day. Finally, we need to dispel the doubts, first of all, that no one here is against the work done and fairly paid, which must be done to all the roads, as we have recently called them. No one is against the fight against traumatism and victims on the road. Nobody! There shouldn't be any doubt about that. No one is against the protection of this business and of all those working in it who are conscientiously performing their duties. But we must be against it in the way that we inspire and the obligation of the National Assembly, and we insinuate, if you will, the whole business, and all the people working in it, what they do not deserve from the debate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u632	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Is there a third line to Branimir Balachev? Michal Kambarev, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u633	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Balachev, today is a sad day, yes, but I don't think it's a sad day for parliamentaryism. I think it's a sad day for everything that's been in the past. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] We're done with the bats. I think we'll be done with the thefts today. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] I feel like we're living in parallel universes and realities with you. A moment ago Mr. Totev came out and said: the contracts which Komitova terminated, in fact why we had to terminate them. Last year we watched a highway built without documents, without alienation, and you ask questions: is this legal? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u634	Please be quiet, colleagues, in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u635	When you learn, then.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u636	Please, you can explain later. We take our words out of context. I don't know, it's hard for me to see that this is the highest organ in which some people who are my father's age and my grandfather's behave as if they were kindergarten kids. We go out here and say, Mr. Ananiev said there was no money in the budget. Mr. Ananiev said there's no money in API. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] If we were to behave like you, ladies and gentlemen... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u637	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u638	...we should have been able to repeat over a line about organized crime that we shouldn't have pushed. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u639	Read!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u640	We're reading. Thank you. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS and applause by]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u641	I'm gonna have to ask for quiet in the hall. Here you are, Mr. Balachev, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u642	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'm trying to be very brief. With regard to Komitova, there is one answer, colleague. I call on you today to transfer the cases against responsible civil servants of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, Sofia's city prosecutor, to get acquainted with these materials because they contain an obvious crime. It is said to be a idle article is 219, and it must answer because from the termination of the contract to today it has already been nearly six months, if not more. At $1 billion and $100 million, if memory serves me right, an obligation, just consider how much interest. And because I didn't read the contracts, but there must be penalties in them and these goods, because these are big contracts, of serious amounts of idleness would probably go somewhere like 50.100 million. So her place is elsewhere in the National Investigation Service. Regarding this, colleague, what tunnels, what bridges we are talking about. We can't pay back what's been done, you're talking to me about new construction. I'm sorry, I can't believe you. Mr. Kambarev, look, stop with the story. It's nice to know history. However, when you prove that I or any of these colleagues of mine have anything to do with any corruption or find that there is corruption at all, I am ready to answer to you, but if you don't, our next meeting will be in the Sofia District Court. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u643	Delyan Dobrev by procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u644	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is for you to call and invite the finance minister and the deputy prime minister here. A few colleagues in plenary said there was no money in the budget. There is no money in the fiscal reserve, there is no money in the budget, there is no money in the Energy Security Fund, there is no money at all. Where did the money go in this country? When they start to rule, the Change will have 8 billion extra. Not only is there no 8 billion extra money. They're not spent on anything. You see, the old bills haven't been paid and there's still no money. To come here to the finance minister and tell us where the money went to the state? What did they spend it on without anyone knowing? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u645	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. For a speech next is Georgi Georgiev. Then there's Petya Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u646	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! In my speeches to the Committee on Regional Policy, I said that I was against the inclusion of the item on the agenda, firstly because I said that I believe that this is not the work of the National Assembly. Next thing I know, we don't have enough information. Taking a quality management decision requires full information. As a result of the Commission we were given a report from a special interdepartmental working group composed by Ivan Demerdzhiev, Deputy Minister of Justice, to Mr. Stefan Yanev. The report shall be dated 1 October 2021. I'll read you what it says as one of the conclusions. In accordance with the ICC's practice, it is accepted that the parties to a contract concluded under the Law of the European Union cannot modify the same and negotiate over the activities for which an administrative act for the conduct of a contract has entered into force and the contract has been concluded on the basis of it. A contract for activities or works outside those defined by the contract concluded under the Law of the European Union shall be null and void. This, ladies and gentlemen, is written in this report from this special interdepartmental group to the Prime Minister, then Stefan Yanev. Either way, we're at a point where we're at a dead end. Too long is the time when you don't pay the business. For perhaps six months we have been talking very hard about the so-called indexation of unit prices in contracts for construction works, which also does not happen. I call on you to find a way to pay for whether it will be through the decision tonight, whether it will be through some pressure from the Council of Ministers, but I believe that it should be paid already because it becomes too long the period in which the business is placed on its knees.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u647	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines for Georgi Georgiev? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u648	I'm out.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u649	Okay, no lines then.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u650	For a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u651	Here you go, Mr. Zhelyazkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u652	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we are constantly talking about illegal treaties. Such a concept, unfortunately, must disappoint you... no. There are actual and invalid contracts. As the invalid contracts are either null and void or destructive, eight grounds for nullity, six grounds for destruction. Where there is a contradiction with an imperative provision of law, it does not make the treaty void, because there are administrative-criminal provisions that say what happens when an imperative provision is broken, a text in the relevant law. It is a permanent practice of the Supreme Court of Cassation that there is nullity when the contradiction with the law is expressed by a contradiction aimed at a counterproductive result rather than the provision itself. This contradiction must be proclaimed and claimed. And when this thing is claimed, each side must restore what is received, it is called restitucio integrum. Each side must return what is received, respectively, to the builder to return the money, to destroy what is done, and then we have restitucio integrum. And when destructiveness is claimed, colleagues, this destructiveness is exercised through the positive law that brings about a change in the foreign legal sphere. That's also a statement. And when a contract is terminated, which is also a positive right, another type of relationship between the parties is obtained, namely compensation due to the other type of bond made. Then we go to a hypothesis or to unjustified enrichment or to conduct other people's work without authority, but in any case the parties settle relations with each other in one way or another. The very claim that a contract is illegal is nonsense. Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u653	Thank you, Mr. Zhelyazkov. Yordan Tsonev for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u654	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Zhelyazkov, to return the line. I think you're wasting your time. [[Laughter]] This brilliant lecture on bond law is not that colleagues don't understand it, not that there are no lawyers who know it here, but my feeling is this, and from the conversations with the majority colleagues that I have conducted, it is important how they understand the appropriateness and not the legality. They believe that one thing must be done. If it has to be done, it will be done regardless of whether the law, the Constitution, or whoever allows it. Do you think we can? Since yesterday, I've probably wasted four hours of words or three or two, I don't know, explaining that I agree with their desire to do something about what you are, but they don't have to do it that way. You don't have to do that organ. It doesn't work like that, it doesn't work like that, it doesn't work like that, it doesn't work like that, it doesn't This isn't a first case. Here I think, please forgive me, I'll say it without any malice and no malice, that when the state and its institutions don't sanction the first unconstitutional act, they don't sanction it, it's normal to think that nothing will sanction you. But why follow the Constitution when you once ran her over, so what? They say, "Yeah, you're wrong. So what, and so on. I'm just saying it without a pickle. That's what I think, seeing as how you want everything you have to do to me will be done. What difference does it make who does it and how they do it? It matters a lot. So I'm telling you, it seems to me that both you and Mr. Cholakov and other lawyers are wasting our time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u655	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Is there a third line to Georgi Georgiev? I won't. Do you want a hole, Mr. Georgiev? No. Petya Avramova, come in, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u656	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Although I do not know exactly what version of a decision we are looking at, perhaps both, in spite of all the arguments that fellow lawyers in this Chamber have expressed about the unconstitutionality of the decisions that we are considering, I would like to briefly say the background, because here were the words.... and illegal, and invalid, and others, about the contracts that we comment on. The facts are as follows: public contracts under the Public Procurement Act have been conducted, contracts have been concluded I say this to all colleagues who have not bothered to open the public procurement on the website of the Road Infrastructure Agency and to read both the documentation and the contracts themselves. The contracts shall have an estimated value of supplied value, and in the procurement documents itself it is written that the value is estimated and that activities will be awarded above that estimated value. In the contracts themselves, the value is also indicated as the value of the contract itself. The contract has a five-year term and is fixed only as the marginal unit prices of the contract. I would like to emphasise that this is an activity that cannot be planned in detail and that there is no way for a five-year contract to be planned with specific activities, with specific values of individual types of work. Therefore, these contracts, not from 2018. 2019 and back in time................................................................. the road infrastructure contracts.................................................................................................................................................................................... The final value indicated in the tender documentation shall be estimated and shall serve solely and solely as collateral for the execution of contracts. The object is preventative maintenance, ongoing maintenance, winter maintenance and restoration of road characteristics through the MRI. The task is to keep the road in good operational condition and to ensure safety for the passage of motor vehicles, as well as to ensure the health and life of passersby. What's next, fellow Members? In 2021, in the context of a series of parliamentary elections, without a elected regular government, in the management of official governments, in sharp political opposition, in the harsh intervention of the official governments in the election campaigns, a period during which the entire state machine was mobilized to embody the political opponent by blatant allegations of wrong, vicious activities or actions of previous rulers, including illegal contracts, these reckless actions actually led to the blocking of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the current Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Grozdan Karadjov. Contracts for ongoing repair and maintenance fell victim to this propaganda campaign to denigrate the political opponent without thinking about the consequences, without thinking about the state of roads, without thinking about the companies and people working in them, without thinking about the safety of the road. Some working group decides that contracts should be terminated and there is even an explicit text that they are insignificant, that new performers should be selected, knowingly and deliberately, in my opinion, they did not pay the amounts due for actual construction activities. Road repairs have stopped and we are actually now observing the consequences of this blockage. Then did they want sanctions from the National Assembly to annex the treaties and set new deadlines?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u657	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u658	Then did they want a sanction from the National Assembly to stop road repairs for a year? No. Everyone was only thinking about one thing about how to get their hands on power and how to get rid of GERB. What's next? Suddenly they remembered that winter was coming and there was no one to perform the winter maintenance of the Republican road network. The genius decision is born to continue to award activities under the same contracts that they said were illegal, which were supposedly vicious, to pay off these contracts regardless of their own claims that they were exhausted as resources. They make an unsuccessful attempt to select other companies and come to this annexation of contracts with a deadline of their end of April and 30 June. Pressed by financial difficulties, with the promise of payment of what was made, companies sign these agreements for the termination of existing five-year contracts. Where are they, I ask, the principles of stability, of legal certainty, of stability of economic relations without regard to conjunctural changes as a result of political status quo and changes in the composition of the authorities of the administration? Where are the rule of law? The draft decision at issue today is absurd, as all colleagues have already found. What we are presented to see is actually within the powers and duties of the Road Infrastructure Agency and its management. We heard that the people working at the Road Infrastructure Agency, the Agency's management, were afraid to sign. They're afraid to sign because the propaganda machine scared them. This propaganda machine that declared the contracts worthless. Tomorrow another minister will propose to the National Assembly a decision by which the National Assembly will tell him who to pay and who not to pay, with whom to sign a contract. I would like to ask: why 50%, honourable Members? Why are you offering 50 and not 100? Just so you know, in the signed agreements by an authority of the State of the Agency, the road infrastructure is recognised as having been carried out and recognised as due the amounts in Annex 3 to each agreement. What's going on? Regional road management shall check all documents to sign that the work has been carried out. The Directorate of the Road Infrastructure Agency shall verify all activities and documents and sign that the activity has been carried out. The management of the Road Infrastructure Agency is signed that the activity has been carried out. Minister Komitova checks all contracts before signing the agreements and agrees that these amounts are due and the activity is carried out. There she commits by June 30th to be paid 100%, not 50, not the other 50 after five years or when someone condemns us. There it undertakes, i.e. the State undertakes to repay these activities. And in the final, another commission is made, which is at the Ministry of Finance and partly by the Ministry of Regional Development, which also checks all documents, certificates, awards, certificates and certificates approved by the Agency. It was insane what we read that against the background of all these inquiries and the National Assembly, without having any such powers, and a committee in the National Assembly will check already recognised activities that are scheduled in an agreement with the companies and these companies are waiting to be paid by 30 June and some by 30 April. These are, colleagues, the consequences when political dividends and not government thinking are leading. Total chaos, total blockage, fear of government authorities doing their job and signing their papers, because tomorrow there might still be a witch hunt. This is the result of the insane political opposition by all means. This is the result of the outrageously-led election campaigns. Today's decision is a legal nonsense and will remain if it is accepted and voted in this House, in the history of the National Assembly, and will be a door for many such insane decisions to be made. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u659	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Philip Popov for a line. Nastimir Ananiev the second line, Peter Kulenski the third.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u660	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Avramova, notoriously known and legal definition is that the contract is an agreement between two or more parties to create, arrange or terminate a legal relationship between them. And here is the covenant, a small example of an agreement, and there are many. Some of the colleagues said these examples. The year is 2020 or 2021, a road is being built around a ring, the value of which is 12 million. lv. for a kilometer, or 12,000. lv. For a linear meter?! This tribune, which is here in front of me right now, is larger than a meter. Imagine 12 grand. lv. Lined up here in the front. That's how much the order was, and that's how much this contract's been filled. $12,000. lv. within a linear meter?! That's what we're talking about. That's the agreement. You're asking where the money is? Well, here's the money. $12,000. lv. At a linear meter! You're asking where the rule of law was? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Where was the rule of law? Where and how is public interest protected? Now we defend the public interest when they revise these types of contracts. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u661	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here you go, Mr. Kullensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u662	Dear Mr. President, Mrs. Avramova, we have learned from the speeches of the negotiators that in the respective contracts the estimated value was about 700 million. lv. And they're paid off, they actually have to pay off, like, 3 billion. And I'm reading the Public Procurement Act now, art. 21, para. 1 which says: the estimated value of the contract is determined by the contracting entity and includes all payments without VAT, including the envisaged options and renewal of contracts explicitly mentioned in the terms of the contract. Alinea 12 says: "In framework agreements and dynamic purchasing systems, the maximum estimated value without VAT is taken into account and so on and so forth. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Court of Justice of the European Union, which says, quotes the operative part of the decision: 49 of Directive 2014/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement and repealing Directive 2014/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive 2014/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Directive 2014/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, point (a) of the European Parliament and of the Council, point (b) of the Council and point (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 7 (10) of Directive 2014/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, must be interpreted as meaning that the contract notice must indicate the estimated quantity and/or estimated value, as well as the maximum quantity or maximum value of the supply under the framework contract, and that, when reaching that threshold, the framework agreement in question is in operation. [[speaking indistinctly]] So I ask myself, after you have concluded 700 million contracts where you have to pay over 3 billion, have these contracts been concluded in violation of the Public Procurement Act and the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union or not? Thank you. I would love for you to answer that question. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u663	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u664	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Avramova! Colleague Kulensky, I think you've explained well about the ZOP and the 50 percent. I'm interested in this. This mess has been mixed up in your time as the principal of API. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] In fact, during your entire exhibition, we didn't find out if there was an circumvention of the LU when you signed a TRP contract, but you were doing major repairs, reconstruction or new construction? Can you change the scope of the contract to the dimensions that we said times? By the way, Mr. Georgiev said: lifting from 23 million to 200 million is nine times lifting the scope. In fact, I am interested, yesterday at the protests I saw one of your people at API, Georgi Zlatev, who protested. He was head of the Department of Road Maintenance and sat next to the companies he had to control sitting outside and protesting. There's nothing wrong with civil rights. Anyone can protest. I'm interested to hear your opinion on these two cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u665	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you go, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u666	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to respond to my colleagues in line with the lines. Mr. Popov, Lyulin Motorway in 2008 cost 8 million per kilometer, so there is nothing more to comment on. Mr. Kulenski, you read some of the allegations in a report that remained anonymous to me because it was from a working group, actually signed by Deputy Minister Demerdzhiev, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u667	I have read a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u668	I've read it, but I've read other legal opinions, so the task force did its job on the order. They are not terminated but are annexed to the contracts, but I argue that these contracts do not have a limit value, have an estimated value and marginal unit prices. [[(Replies from]] And you and I will not decide whether these contracts have a vice or do not have institutions for this job, so that we do not express it from the stands of the National Assembly. Mr. Ananiev, just to say that the person you are referring to as a protester was very far back in time in the Road Infrastructure Agency. This mess wasn't messed up by us, this mess was messed up and I spaciously explained last year at the time of election campaigns. No one thought back then when you protested, and when you talked about vicious contracts, no one thought that you would end up in the situation that you are in right now, and you would block yourself. We saw it and we knew it, but you blocked yourself and most of all blocked the companies, blocked the Bulgarian business, Bulgarian construction companies, although the Finance Minister and Deputy Prime Minister said they would go bankrupt, companies from Europe, from around the world will come and work with these people and with these machines. We want Bulgarian companies to work here in Bulgaria, not to be subcontractors for pennies and to come companies from abroad because these companies gained capacity and can cope with the construction of Bulgarian roads. The state must have some legal certainty, because people are still waiting for their salaries because 2021 blocked the whole process of maintenance of road infrastructure. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u669	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. The next entries are Plamen Abrovski and Andrey Mihaylov. Keep in mind that your group has 7 minutes left to distribute them to each other. Here you go, Mr. Abrovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u670	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! I'm sorry about the late hour. Otherwise, if it had been earlier, I would have run to the nearest bookstore so I could, like Mr. Cholakov, put the Penal Code here. Colleagues, we're talking about a bond, but we're forgetting about punishment. However, the bond does not exclude punishment. Yeah, when someone's been building, they're gonna have to be paid, but when someone's been building contracts based on contracts that have been signed against the law, they're gonna have to take responsibility. Now that there are so many doubts about such types of contracts and I am sure that somewhere there the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office is sitting and watching and at a wonderful moment will come to check, we need to see what we are doing. We have three options for action ahead of us. One option is nothing we do, which is extremely convenient, and I understand colleagues from GERB why they want it, because in this way the National Assembly closes its eyes. The second option is the first version of the decision that we have proposed, which says: as there may be a problem, let the Council of Ministers find the money, but this does not exclude bearing the responsibility of the one who created these contracts and signed these anexes, excludes the responsibility of the payer only. You already have a third option, colleagues, where a group of MPs appear, who will draw up a report that will be voted on in plenary, which will perhaps mean that we will take the responsibility of the one who originally concluded the treaties and the annexes. Therefore, fellow Members, be careful what you vote, and I will personally vote on the first version of the Decision that has been proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u671	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Are there any lines to Plamen Abrovski? Here you go, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u672	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I was curious because it was a crime and punishment, and I've always sharpened my ears like an old penalist. Colleague Abrovski, I want to tell you: if there is a guilty person, there must be a punishment, only there is one presumption of innocence and you should read it in the same book that you will find tomorrow in the bookstore. It says here that until one sentence comes into effect, every single person is innocent. The other thing I want to tell you is that there's no question of a conviction.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u673	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Second line from Radomir Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u674	I'd like to ask the defendant because he's pretending to be an expert in criminal law. If the National Assembly happens to vote on such a decision, which says that there are some contracts here, which may be something questionable and illegal, but we are accusing them of this decision, does that correspond to the definition of an organized crime group? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u675	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Is there a third line to Plamen Abrovsky? I won't. Would you like a hole, Mr. Abrovsky? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u676	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Balachev, in my speech I neglected to congratulate you because from the whole room you were the only one who mentioned art. 219 of the Penal Code. Yes, you're right, it has to be proven, and that's why I mentioned in my statement the prosecution. Just one thing to say to colleagues here on the left, who comment on rose producers and agriculture. If you vote on the second version of this decision, you may also need that money for the grain reserve to pass through committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u677	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u678	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will return our debate on the specifics of the decisions. I'm not gonna talk about criminal law, about bond law. I will comment on a concrete proposal that we have to supplement the Decision. It became clear from Minister Karadjov's statement, as well as from colleagues that in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works there is no provision for payment of old obligations under the contracts for ongoing repair and maintenance. For this reason, the Minister of Regional Development had proposed that the amount needed for payment with road construction companies should be provided by the central budget by a decree of the Council of Ministers that was also clarified. It is thus established that such a proposed decision should be amended. In view of the above, I propose to add as a final point of the Decision the following text: With regard to the proposal to approve any payment for all repairs in the country, as my colleague Miteva proposed at the beginning of our debate, it should probably be discussed in a special temporary committee on the subject. Finally, in the Committee on Regional Development Report and in that of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, the division of the letters.............................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u679	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Are there any lines to Andrei Mihailov? Here you go, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u680	Mr. Mikhailov, a very short line to you. Just to ask on the basis of which Rule of Procedure are you making this proposal? In fact, you do not have to answer me.. There is no such basis in the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u681	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Is there a second line to Andrei Mihailov? I won't. For the doppelganger, Mr. Mihaylov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u682	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. By applying the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly by analogy for the adoption of bills, each Member of the National Assembly shall have the right to make proposals to amend and supplement the text discussed. This is with regard to your specific legal question. To be quite precise, I can say a bit of a joke: on the same grounds on which you so hastily requested a reassignment of the Committee on Legal Affairs to this same decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u683	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you go, Mr. Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u684	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! As a member of the Committee on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption, and seeing what you have prepared for us with this decision, I will allow myself to use my speech to ask a substantive question about the Decision. And I want to ask him the question to the Deputy Prime Minister, who, by the way, in my personal opinion, is one of the few or, if not the only member of the Council of Ministers who knows why he is there and where he is. If not, maybe one of the importers will answer. Can you answer me why one company pays 100% and the other 50%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u685	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Would you like to speak, Minister? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u686	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is a very simple answer to this question, and it is obvious that it is payment for the award of boards, signs and markings do not give rise to any doubt as to whether they are ongoing repairs or whether they are major repairs. All those I have listed are exactly those that are paid 100%, that is, there is no doubt, and the committee that checks the interdepartmental committee that checks them has set them aside as such, which will not be carried out more serious and detailed examination. Therefore, it makes no sense not only does it make no sense, as soon as we are convinced of this, we are obliged to pay off these companies, because the law requires everything that is fulfilled and is ordered to pay off according to the contract. And for the rest, where we have doubts that there are major repairs, a detailed check of what was actually done, this really done at what price it was invoiced and whether it corresponds to the prices that are little market, to say it directly, about this type of repair. Because it makes a difference whether you're going to make two square meters of asphalt, or you're going to do 20 kilometers of asphalting on the road. Unit prices are different in both cases. None of the companies object to this inspection, by the way. The only thing that wakes up any, so to say, worry, it's that the work is going slow and it can't be fast, it's thousands of certificates. So instead of being a faulty country and not paying everything, it is better to pay off an amount that is assumed that riskless is 50%, and as soon as checks are completed, everyone will get what is due to him honestly from the state, and for the rest there will be some dispute most likely. And no wonder only about the remnants, those for which there is a dispute, that is, there will surely be at least one more payment to all companies, but for the disputed parts will most likely be entered into the court. That doesn't have any problem in my opinion, and that's why it's 100% and 50%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u687	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Are there any lines for Alexander Nestorov? I won't. Mr. Svilenski for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u688	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! All the lawyers in this room spoke, gave every interpretation of all possible solutions, but in my opinion the right decision was given by the economist Yordan Tsonev, which, unfortunately, will not solve the issue we have gathered here. We, from the forty-sixth or fifth National Assembly, when a proposal for payment under these treaties was submitted here, made it clear that the responsible must first bear their responsibility because there are signatures of contracting entities behind these contracts, because there are signatures of guarantors behind these signatures, and those persons must bear the responsibility for what they have done to the State and for what they have done to three National Assembly meetings. We are all aware of the predictability of the previous government, and that is what Mrs Avramova said best. The estimated 700 million, according to her forecast, realised 3 billion. Five times this minister, probably this Council of Ministers, hasn't been in class, as to what should happen. Five times less than they predicted! Not once, not twice, five times less! It is perfectly clear to me that whatever decision we make may be contrary to many laws, not to one law. But it is quite clear to me that from tomorrow these companies, who had come here before the National Assembly, must start working and not start working, but must repair the roads. Because these roads are in an outrageous state, and there's no one to do this job. And if we're going to assign the Council of Ministers and he's going to assign the Minister, I'm sure this minister isn't so stupid and he won't sign. And I suggest that if there is a volunteer in this room who is ready to sign and who claims that there is no need for a decision of the National Assembly, and says that it can be decided by the Council of Ministers or the Minister, or the Board of Directors of API, or the Governor of API, a volunteer to raise his hand, the minister tomorrow to appoint him for 24 hours as manager of the API, to sign the contracts and come back here again. Because all those who claim there is no need for a decision of the National Assembly. [[Heckling]] He's not coming back here. Once he signs it, he won't come back here. There'll be another man waiting for him somewhere else. But I will not become as fellow MPs from this tribune to issue sentences and to say which minister has broken the law and who has not. There's someone who can say that. I say that there are contracts signed, I say not illegal, but then awarded orders on them outside their scope, beyond what the then Minister of Finance Mr. Ananiev predicted, beyond what the then Minister of Regional Development predicted, Mrs. Avramova, beyond what the Council of Ministers had proposed in this Chamber as a budget five times. And that's something to be held accountable for. Both Bulgarian citizens and the companies who protested, and it was no accident that a colleague said that one of the protesters was part of GERB's team in the Road Administration. In other words, the person who was supposed to control and conclude the contracts is standing right across the street with the megaphone and saying, "Give me the money! " - Why didn't you take it while you were director of the directorate? Why don't you control your repairs, and now you come and say, "Give me the money!" [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Here are the vices we must put an end to. It must become clear who assigns, who orders, who performs, who pays and who is responsible? While they've been ordering the same thing for 12 years, they've been ordering the same thing, and now they want others to be held accountable, it's not gonna happen. This is the third time I've asked: is there a volunteer, might he be known, might not be a MP? Mr. Karadjov will immediately appoint him to sign these contracts tonight. And since you claim that he will not be responsible, I think he will also receive remuneration within one working day. We will support the decision proposed by the Legal Commission because we believe that, in addition to the payment to be made, some control must also be exercised. I am sure that this control will not be what we all expect, because by sending it to the Committee on Corruption, we say in advance that these contracts are corruptly concluded. No, they're then corrupt maybe executed. But what committee to look at is another matter. The point is that tonight we have to make a decision, the minister must go away with a decision by which tomorrow he can pay the 50 percent of all companies. Not just some, Mr. Minister, but everyone's 50%. The other 50 get checked out, and if it's okay... I don't know why you're so worried about those 50? Do you remember Mr. Borisov 2009, becoming Prime Minister, Mr. Djankov called all the companies and said: 10% down, otherwise I do not pay. Do you remember this thing? And then you weren't talking about breaking a Constitution, a law, a Penal Code. He called them on the carpet Borisov and said: "Whoever does not cut the price by 10%, we will not pay. Well, now the government says, who cut 50%, check. To see the other 50 where they went, what they went for, and the other 50 if they are on the road, if they are carried out in boards, in markings, in asphalt, if they are there, they will be paid up to 100%. However, if the asphalt instead of 8 cm is 4, it will be paid as for 4 will not be paid as for 8. Do you remember how you jumped, fellow Members, when we asked for a 52-point check on the highways? 52 nuts, 52 samples to be made, it didn't cost anything, it didn't cost anything. The whole mechanization has landed on the Tsarigradsko to protest for 52 samples because they have fear of what is done, what is quality, how much money they will have to return or how much money they will have to take. Therefore, as we are already progressing, and I see that the time of the groups is running out, I say again, we will support the Decision. I hope this is the last such act that takes this National Assembly and every next one, because it really is not the job of the National Assembly to deal with these things, but there is no minister, there is no head of the API, there is no governor or director to sign such a decision. Not out of fear, not out of suggestion. Here, Mr. Bikov wants it. I suggest you, Mr. Karadjov, appoint Mr. Bikov. He doesn't feel comfortable in the Anti-Corruption Commission anyway, head the API within a day, sign the contracts and then return to this Chamber. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] [[Applause]] Thank you. Have a good night! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u689	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines for Georgi Svilensky? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u690	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Svilensky, thank you, you've hit the spot. All day the National Assembly has been asking why this case is in the National Assembly, and you have explained and explained why. I absolutely agree with you. Anyone who gets a contract already terminated, pays on it, there is no basis, and you have rightly said that he may become a client of the prosecution, possibly or another body in the state. This does not apply to the contracts in force yet. That is why this hot potato has been sent, colleagues, to the National Assembly, or what is said in one sentence, sounds like: Lena, Kircho and Assen have hidden behind this article! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u691	Mr. Hamid!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u692	And the member, colleagues, is 69 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, or more precisely the lack of equivalent text of art. 69 in Chapter of the Constitution, the text which says that the Members of the National Assembly are responsible for their speeches, their decisions and votes. There's no such text on the Council of Ministers, that's why it's here. And I hope the cock holds up, protects them enough. [[(Laughter) Claps by DPS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u693	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Is there a second line to Georgi Svilensky? I won't. A hole, Mr. Svilensky? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u694	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Hamid, for the line. It's nice to be respectful to the Prime Minister, to the Deputy Prime Minister and to the Chief of Staff. Lena Borislavova is not a collaborator of Kiril Petkov, but a chief of his office for those who call her a collaborator. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Mr. Hamid, yes, MPs have no criminal responsibility for what they say here, but they are responsible to their constituents and for what they say and how they vote, so that each of us, when we vote, should do the math very well why he does it, how he does it and whose interests he protects. The vote on this point is only in the interest of all Bulgarian voters, regardless of whether they are from GERB, we continue the Change and the DPS, because we are all traveling on the roads and last year more than 600 people died, honourable colleagues. Let us not contribute with our inactivity to this year being more than the 600 that were last year. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u695	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. To speak, Konstantin Bachiiski. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Bachiysky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u696	Calm down, I'm not blowing up this room. [[Laughter]] Colleagues, do you think there are vices in these contracts? Probably there is. It is publicly known that there are some slightly scandalous assignments, such as the notorious passage of several meters of sewer infrastructure, which is for 1 million, four crossings on a 2 million-dollar road and so on. There are, by the way, other outrageous things. For example, the sections of the highway, which are part of these TRPs. I saw that they were built for about 4 million per kilometer, and we repair them for about 5. There are things that kind of make an impression. I mean, we say again, if there are vices, there's probably vices in these assignations. Is there corruption, is there? Let's say we may have suspicions, since we already have signals that have been received. Even the Anti-Corruption Commission ten days ago has asked the MRDP for the relevant contracts that we have not yet received, but Minister Karadzhov has just promised me that he will provide us with full cooperation and will provide this information, so I hope that we will still be able to do a full inspection. In this regard, it is very important to have control over payments. Yeah, some of the companies have probably done the right thing, those activities they've done, probably at normal prices. Not everywhere there may be such price increases, that is, a very good monitoring of what will be paid. That's why there has to be control. We cannot spend any government lev without seeing how it spends, whether there are any obstructions in the award or execution of the respective contracts. I therefore disagree with some of the colleagues who say that there was no need to carry out checks here. As many checks should be carried out on the relevant contracts. I would like to draw your attention to the specific agreements that are signed between APIs and the relevant companies. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these are voluntary agreements between two separate countries. According to these agreements, these contracts have not yet been terminated. Most of them will be terminated on June 30th, and several contracts, I think six of them will be terminated on April 29th. At present, these contracts are still valid. The API and the contractors, if they wish, could sign a second agreement to extend this deadline and accordingly assign the works that need to be awarded, that is, we currently have a legal option how this thing should happen. The problem is that Minister Karadjov and I understand it, does not want to take this risk, because these contracts did not initially sign them, that is, if he signed them, it is normal to wait for him to take the risk, but we do understand the position of being responsible for the actions of third parties who have done these things, these assignments, and have signed these contracts with some other managers, without going into detail. In this case, we need to find a solution to this issue, so that the companies that need to get their remuneration for the right work done do so and those who have abused should be sanctioned accordingly. However, I would like to draw your attention to another element. According to these additional agreements, the period of payment of unpaid work is 31 December 2022, i.e. by the end of the year we have a period to pay to these companies. It is about those who have been invoiced or certified and, accordingly, the work carried out, but not certified at the time, the time limit is 31 December 2023. That is, when we take this decision, which is proposed by the Legal Commission, and we place the corresponding payment amounts, to take into account the deadlines with which the API, in this case, has committed itself to repay these companies, that is to say, we will have plenty of time to carry out an appropriate examination of the contracts and documents submitted subsequently for the second part of the payment. When it's done and checked, let's do the payment on the second part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u697	Thank you, Mr. Bachiysky. Are there any lines to Konstantin Bachiiski? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u698	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When I walk on forests and mountains and meet voters somewhere, very often voters do not distinguish between executive and legislative powers. They ask me questions that are not of my authority, but of the powers of the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, not only voters, but we also see that the members of the Council of Ministers do not make this distinction between executive and legislative powers. One of the biggest criticisms of GERB's governance was that they had turned the National Assembly into a rubber stamp, into a administration of the Council of Ministers. Everything that occurred there to the ministers was ordered to vote in plenary. We see something similar in the current Change, which may not be any change at all, but we see the same sequel to the National Assembly continuing to play the role of the administration of the Council of Ministers and not even merely of business, but somehow it has begun to wipe away the problems that the Council of Ministers is creating. Are these contracts corrupt? Yeah, they're probably corrupt. Are they done properly? They probably didn't get it right. The problem is that this is not the work of the National Assembly. The National Assembly, if it accepts this decision, will actually give an indulgence for everything that has happened. What the executive of the Change has to do must either prove that these contracts are vicious and the persons concerned who have benefited from corruption or have been incompetent and have entered into these contracts incompetently to bear the corresponding penalties. The National Assembly does not have these powers and cannot do any of this except sign an indulgence for those who have concluded these treaties, for those who have potentially and hypothetically benefited from the conclusion of these contracts, and for those who will potentially and hypothetically continue to benefit from the execution and payment of vicious contracts. In this regard, after a 16-hour meeting, what is my call to the House, and what the Revival will do is that it will not support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u699	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Are there any lines to Nikolai Drenchev? I can't see. Dear Minister, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u700	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm sorry to break up with you like this... [[Loud noise.]] Please, I'll be very brief, really very brief, but I'm asking for your attention. I want to say here and before you that things are really critical and that you really need to make a decision tonight and I ask you very much to make a decision tonight, no matter which decision, but I ask you very much to come to a decision, because there is no way tomorrow we can put a hole in the Bulgarian roads. Every day I receive hundreds of messages from Bulgarian citizens asking what is going on. They don't follow our debates, they don't follow the problems that are inherited, the problems how complex they are, which have to be unraveled. They want to fix the roads. So I'm asking you very, very much to make a decision tonight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u701	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u702	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will be very brief. It's too late. You're tired. Take my speech, Mr. Chairman, and as some kind of line to you. I agree with what the minister said that we need to come to some solution here, but one of the proposed solutions, honourable colleagues, in my opinion, which is on the PP, suggests that we turn our meeting into a convention. I repeat this word, used by the honorable Mr. Tsonev. Indeed, you, Mr President, as President of Parliament, which I sincerely respect, a drop of irony I am not putting into this, should be guarding the function, the meaning of our activity and the meaning of our residence here, that is, this bill, which provides for us to take decisions on specific actions of the executive, to approve them here. Moreover, he has relieved himself of responsibility several times already here, the parties of judicial responsibility exempt them from the possibility to argue with each other and place upon us responsibilities of which we are not afraid, but they are not our business, they are not the meaning of the National Assembly. So in my opinion, your appointment as Chairman of the Assembly and the first between equals among us is not to allow this bill to be voted at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u703	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Are there any lines to Lyuben Dilov? I won't. Projects have been deposited, there is no way on my own that I can withdraw them or not put them to the vote. In the absence of any more willing to speak, I will end this discussion. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] As we have already discussed at the beginning of the debate, we will first put to the vote the draft decision of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs... [[Reply from MP Petar Chobanov.]] Yeah, yeah, there's an editorial. Thank you, Mr. Chobanov, I haven't forgotten them. First is the draft decision, as is the version of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, as it is the broadest in scope and covers the other two in terms of content. Then, if it is not adopted, then we will proceed to voting on the draft decision, as it is on the Regional Commission, as it in turn covers the importing project. And now, if Regionals isn't accepted, then we're going to the Import Project. That's what we discussed at the beginning, but before that, the editorial amendments. The editing amendments so far are from Petar Chobanov and Andrei Mihaylov. You're welcome to do the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u704	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, another editorial amendment. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: There's a gap between the first and the second, so it's really the editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u705	What project are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u706	The draft of the Legal Commission. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 concerning the really implemented............................................................... to
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u707	Is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u708	"Real-executed certified activities" "Sertified" only add after "executed". Since in t. 1 is a certified activity (s), simple and in point (c) of Article 2 (1). 2 we add to the certificate. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u709	You want procedure, Mrs. Atanasova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u710	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're all tired now. We have been in plenary for a long time, but I ask, when, Mr President, you have closed the debate, and you have announced that you are closing the debate, not allowing speeches, either in the form of editorial proposals from one of the draft decisions. In this sense, I believe that this is unacceptable, which is what the President of the Legal Commission has done. We've been discussing these solutions for a very long time. I think all the arguments were shared. Please proceed to the vote and there is no need for further confusion in plenary with proposals which have not been received at the appropriate time and in accordance with the established order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u711	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. It was actually done after we closed the debate. That's right. First, we put to the vote the editorial proposal of the National Representative Petar Chobanov, which is in point. 1 in each of the projects, the first words of their adopted budget for 2022 shall be replaced by the following text: the transfer from the central budget. This is the editorial of Petar Chobanov. In this way, the text will acquire the following form: "Agency " Road Infrastructure " to pay by transfer from the central budget 50 per cent.................................................................................... to pay by transfer from the central budget 50 per cent.......................................................................................................................................................... This is the editorial proposal. It concerns each of the three projects we have. Please vote on the proposal of Petar Chobanov. They voted 165 MPs: 53, against 74, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u712	REPLICA: Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-14.u713	We're overreacting. They voted 165 MPs: 53, against 75, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. We move on to Andrej Mihailov's editorial proposal. They are two separate ones. The first proposal is in the draft decision in the version of the Regional Commission and in the version of the Legal Commission, p. 2 is with the Regional Commission, etc. 3 is in the case of the Legal Commission, the letters......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In other words, the text should be: the signalisation of the Republican roads and without two points, and without two separate points, and it shall continue until new contracts have been signed, then the ones made for 2022, but not later than........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov, for your confirmation. We vote on Andrej Mihailov's proposal. Vote 166 MPs: 24, Against 47, abstention 95. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next editorial proposal of the National Representative Andrey Mihaylov. It already concerns each of the projects and is about creating a new point, last but not least, with the following text: This is Andrei Mihailov's proposal to create a new point. Please, voting mode. They voted 164 MPs: 22, Against 56, abstention 86. The offer is not accepted. We've run out of editorial proposals. We are now going to vote on the draft decision in the version of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Once again, if this project is adopted, I will not put the others to the vote. If it isn't, then we'll continue with the Regional Commission Project. We are voting on the Draft Law Commission. Vote 221 MPs: for 103, against 108, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] It's a re-vote. We're revising the project, as on the Legal Committee, colleagues. Vote 221 MPs: for 102, against 108 abstentions 11. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the draft decision, as it is on the Regional Commission. Please, voting mode. We are voting on the Regional Commission Project. Vote 221 MPs: 25 against 95 abstention 101. The offer is not accepted. We're overreacting. We're going over the Regional Commission Project. They voted 220 MPs: for 25, against 91, abstention 104. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the draft decision, as is by importer. Please, voting mode. We are voting on the draft import decision. Vote 219 MPs: 28 against 90 abstention 101. The offer is not accepted. We're rethinking the draft of an importer decision. They voted 220 MPs: 29, against 90, abstention 101. The offer is not accepted. We have also exhausted this item on the agenda and the agenda of the day. The next meeting will be held tomorrow at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
