ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Please register. The colleagues online are: Iva Miteva, Lubomir Karimanski and Pavel Hristov. Good morning! Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u3	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u4	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u5	Pavel Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u7	Okay. Abort registration. 184 MPs registered in the hall and 3 online " 187" total. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] The National Assembly's Work Programme for March 23, 2022 "1." First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 2. Projects of decisions to complete the compositions of Standing Committees. Importer Victoria Vassileva. 3. Draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs 2022. Importer "Commission on European Union Affairs." 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the Grant Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Development Association on the nineteenth power supply of Mar resources, concluded by Exchange of Letters of 1 and 2 November 2021. 5. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 8. Hearing of the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund Petko Salchev on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Reforms for Granting, Payback, Repair and Control for the Provision of Aids and Appliances for the Needs of Disabled People in the Law on Persons with Disabilities. Importers supplied by Elisaveta Belobradova and Alexander Simidchiev continue on point two for Thursday. 9. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Health Act. Importers suppose Elena Guncheva and a group of Members of the National Assembly on Thursday. 10. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers.. Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of Members of the National 11. Report on the Commission's activities for protection against discrimination in 2020. Importer 12. Report on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2020 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers. Importer "The Council of Ministers" point 6 for Thursday. 13. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly "only" for Friday, at 9.00 p.m. Five o'clock parliamentary control for Friday. This is the Project of the Programme. Please, voting mode. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u9	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u10	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u11	Pavel Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u12	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u13	Thank you. They voted 196 MPs in the House and 3 online.. 199 total: 124 in the Chamber and 3 online.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The motion is accepted. We move on to proposals for inclusion on the agenda. On the basis of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have received two proposals. The first is from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. The proposal is to hold a hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Kiril Petkov in connection with the unprecedented political repression against the leader of the largest opposition party using the structures of the Ministry of Interior. Please vote mode Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u14	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u15	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u16	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): Abstained.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u17	Pavel Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u19	Thank you. They voted 199 MPs in the Chamber and 3 online " 202" total: for 87 in the Chamber and 1 online "88," against 104 in the House and 1 online "105," abstentioned 8 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online "9." The offer is not accepted. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] We're revoting colleagues. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] All right, here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think this is an important proposal in the context of the situation we are in. We insist that Prime Minister Kiril Petkov come here and give explanations for his testimony in favour of Vasil Bozhkov. This is an important issue for the political system, and the most normal thing is for the prime minister to come and tell the superior authority who appointed him to this position - this is Parliament, what happens in the Bulgarian state? On top of that, we already have evidence that what happened Thursday versus Friday is illegal, that the law has been broken, and he is already a lawbreaker with the Interior Minister. So don't hide it! And I'm worried now that you're hiding it, because the last time you hid it, it turns out he was testifying at the Council of Ministers to protect Vasil Bozhkov's defense thesis?! That's what he did last Thursday. Now you're hiding it, and our concern is that it can do that again right now and mush somewhere in the Council of Ministers. Tell him to come here to this man, to come and explain what he's doing, because what he's doing is once, illegal, second, inadequate and third, if you will, a danger to the national security of the country in the situation we're in. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, It is good to come here, to explain and call on you to support this proposal if you are not afraid. If you're scared, you don't belong here. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u21	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. We're revoting, colleagues. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u22	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u23	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u24	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): Cons.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u25	Pavel Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u27	Thank you. They voted 205 Members of the Parliament and 3 in the Chamber of Parliament 208: for 88 in the Chamber and 1 online "89," against 111 in the Chamber and 2 online "113," abstentioned 6 Members of the National Assembly. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT. It is for inclusion as a item on the agenda of the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. The proposal is that this item be eleventh on the agenda of the week, respectively. Four for Thursday. Honourable Members, please vote. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u28	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u29	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u30	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): Cons.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u31	Pavel Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u33	Thank you. They voted 207 MPs in the Chamber and 3 online "210": for 89 in the Chamber and 1 online "90," against 111 MPs in the House and 2 online "113" who abstained 7 MPs. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u34	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u35	Please come in for a procedure, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Chairman, I take the floor in the manner of conduct, because the government has not yet introduced the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan into parliament. During the hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister on EU funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev Mr. Yordan Tsonev from our parliamentary group insisted that the plan be presented by the government of parliament because it cannot be found and seen anywhere at the moment. For the same reason, colleagues from other parliamentary groups, including the government, but for unclear reasons, the plan continues to be not public. Only the new projects included in it by the current government are published. I ask you, as President of the National Assembly, to ask Mr. Vassilev to provide this document to the Members of the National Assembly, if it is classified, there is a procedure to be submitted to the Secret Office of Parliament. This is extremely necessary because in practice during the hearing of Asen Vassilev the plan was not presented in full. It was focused on projects mainly in energy, especially on the project for battery container plant. It was never understood whether the Plan was corrected according to the comments made by the European Commission on the version submitted to the European Commission by the caretaker government in October last year. Government officials are constantly giving mixed information about the Plan. During the hearing here Assen Vassilev convincingly announced that by March 15th the European Commission will approve the Plan. A few days later, it became clear from a communication from the European Commission that the approval period was extended by another month. Despite Prime Minister Petkov's statement that he received advice from Mrs Ursula von der Lyon to tweet, there is nothing to worry about considering the Plan going on in quotes. There are hardly any of us who do not know that Bulgaria's plan is beyond any deadlines. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We're the only one who's ending a country that doesn't get funding under the Plan. Only the project for battery containers is in the public domain, but there are many doubts there and may be specific economic interests. That'll make sense. We demand, Mr. President, that you request from Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev that the plan be made available to the National Assembly and the public be informed, as well as to the Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. I understand, I'm making a commitment to speak to Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev. Declaration please, Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Georgiev, are you for a declaration or procedure? [[Relations from the National Representative Angel Georgiev.]] I didn't hear you. Okay, after the declaration, I'll leave you for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u38	Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS: Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues! At the beginning of the Forty-fiveth National Assembly a year ago, I spoke here about the principles of law and the rule of law. In it, by the way, I quoted the following thought: The strength of the weaker one is that he can impose on the self-forgotten strong power of law. Mrs. Tatyana Doncheva, then Vice-President of the National Assembly, came down from the stand to replicate me, mocked me and said that Rado Cholakov can speak as much as he wants, but has no right to speak because he is from GERB and GERB have no right to speak in principle. Ms. Tatiana Doncheva is no more, her people said who would have the right to speak and who would not and because the people gave us the right to speak, we, the MPs from the GERB Coalition SDS will show you what the power of the law looks like. Let us recall the facts of Thursday and Friday and their legal qualifications. On Thursday at 2:00 p.m., investigators visited Kiril Petkov in his office to question him at his request in the presence of their Minister Boyko Rashkov. The officers were called by a superior supervisor and conducted an interrogation in the presence of a superior supervisor. This is a violation of art. 15 of the Ministry of Interior Act. If the police have not been chosen on the principle of random selection, it has also been violated. 16 of the Ministry of Interior Act. A police officer has no right to conduct investigative actions against a minister, a prime minister and a former prime minister. This can only be done by an investigator who violates art. 194, para. 1, t. Two of the PPCs. The investigating authority shall act under the authority and supervision of a prosecutor. When this is not the case, there is a violation of art. 52, para. 3 of the PPC. At the direction of the Prime Minister a search was carried out at the homes of Mr. Borisov, Mr. Goranov and Mrs. Arnaudova. Once again, a violation of art. 15 of the Ministry of Interior Act! The search of premises in case of urgency is in violation of art. 83 of the Ministry of Interior Act and of Art. 161, para. Two of the PPCs. Mr. Borisov, Mr. Goranov and Mrs. Arnaudova were detained without any evidence that they committed a crime other than the testimony of the witness Petkov. A possible violation of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act. There's been a facial search. Since there is no record of the persons committing a crime, it is a possible violation of art. 80, para. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act. Two more details: The Witness Petkov in his public statements on Thursday and the following days left the impression that he had received approval of his actions by Laura Koveshi. And last but not least, Boyko Rashkov confirmed repeatedly in his public statements that he intended to seek evidence after the permanent detention of Mr. Borisov, Goranov and Arnaudova, which, by the way, may not include, but may include the extortion of confessions, testimony or information from the detainees. Now I would ask you to take note of several texts of the Penal Code and to think whether or not they are relevant to the violations committed above. From the Department of the Office Crimes: Art. 282. (1) An official who exceeds his or her authority or rights in order to do harm to him or her otherwise may suffer minor harmful consequences shall be punished by imprisonment for up to five years. (2) If the act has been committed by a person in charge, the sentence shall be imprisonment from one to eight years. Art. 285. An official who knowingly allows a subordinate to commit a crime related to his service or work shall be punished by the penalty prescribed for the crime committed. From the section "Invasion of housing': Art. 170. (1) Whoever enters another's dwelling, using this abuse of power, shall be punished by imprisonment for up to three years. Save also from the section "Criminals against Justice " art. Art. 287, Art. 290 "Liarity................................................................................ From section "Crimes against political rights"........................................................................................................ Art. 169b. 169c "The person through violence, intimidation or otherwise illegal means of preventing someone from fulfilling their constitutional and political rights is punished by imprisonment for up to three years. " Would you like to say, "Make it go," big deal?! Honourable MPs of the majority, all of them told you that a person who violated the Constitution in a most shameless manner and signed a false declaration to hold any state post, let alone become prime minister. You didn't listen and you put that sin on your soul. Moreover, votes of the majority entrusted the fate of seven million Bulgarians into the hands of a small group of people with questionable biographies who came out of nowhere methodically and planically destroy the financial, social, economic and all other systems of the state without being interested in concepts such as legality, order or responsibility to society. The actions of your elected government put the entire country's legal, institutional and political system at risk. You see that! And you see something else that everyone sees. The eyes of Kiril Petkov. These are the eyes of a man who doesn't know where he is or what he's doing. Tell us, you representatives of the old, proud BSP party, do you take responsibility for this man? You, representatives of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, are you waiting for an honest justice system from this man? Slavi Trifonov, who made the people in the stadiums cry, did he imagine the role of such a people in politics as supporters of a bunch of adventurers?! I do not want to believe that you agree that Kiril Petkov will continue to be your Prime Minister. I refuse to believe you like this. For GERB from now on Kiril Petkov is no longer Prime Minister, our tolerance is over. This man is a danger to the state. If we would call him to parliament at all, it would be to convince yourself more and more of his bankruptcy. He has no useful move but to hysterize more and more, to demand arrests, to seek repression of the opposition, to break the Constitution and the laws and to force you to follow him in this insane way. Don't be his hostages! Stop it or bear with it the responsibility for what will happen with Bulgaria. One word for former Minister Boyko Rashkov. Do you remember how he begged you from this tribune: "Please leave me at my post and I promise to put Boyko Borisov in jail!" Bravo! As in Tsvetan Tsvetanov's time, people were being taken into custody and then the state was paying. You wanted this not to happen again, and you made it even more disgusting. [[noise and lines, applause from GERB-SDS]] But do you know where the paradox is? The paradox is that you can't stop what you call coloring, you want to do the same. You can't, but we can. We declare to you that we will not allow the return of the militia terror! GERB has learned his lessons and paid the price for such abuse. Now you pay for it. Bulgaria will be the rule of law! And since you've proven that you don't want to and you can't make it that way, we will. By the power of the right that we will demonstrate to you every single day. [[Noise and lines.]] By Easter, 30 more days to go. This is the time when you have to make the necessary decisions to stop the indecent evil and save the country from the inevitable catastrophe that Kiril Petkov and a company are taking her to. May the sins of those who created them be forgiven, and those who inflicted them upon us. God save Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u39	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Angel Georgiev for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's first point is extremely important to our entire society. You know that during all election campaigns last year, a reform of the judiciary was widely discussed. This was one of the main leading topics of all parliamentary parties and coalitions that are represented today in the National Assembly. Not only that, the last session of the Legal Committee lasted nearly seven hours. This shows that opinions are diverse, experts have different views, what remains for society. Citizens have the right to know what is happening, what we propose, what the ruling majority proposes, if it has a vision to deal with the problem at all, does it know what to do, is the opposition more competent and so on. Even more, we have other important items on the agenda - let's say education. Today we will talk about higher education, but in principle education was also one of the main topics that were discussed during election campaigns, and this is one of the main priorities for everyone, I believe, parties presented in today's parliament. For this reason, we at the AGE think that for citizens and Bulgarian society it is important not only during an election campaign to hear what they think and what they intend to do with all presented formations of the political elite of the country, but also to see this real in the Chamber. So we propose that the whole of today's agenda be broadcast directly on BNT 1 and BNR, so that, again, I say, not only during an election campaign that society is informed. It sees live, really what happens, makes its judgments, can the next time the election time comes, be aware of what has actually been done during all this time or, above all, what has not been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u41	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Inverse opinion, fellow Members? I won't. We vote on Angel Georgiev's proposal to include the cameras and microphones of BNT1 and BNR. Eva Miteva? Lyubomir Karimansky? Pavel Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u42	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u43	Thank you. They voted 201 MPs and 1 online " 202" total: 87 and 1 online " 88," against 34, abstention 80. The offer is not accepted. We're moving on to a few messages I'm going to read. There has been a notification from the President of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. At its regular meeting held on 26 January 2022, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation in implementation of art. 21, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has chosen from its composition a member of a permanent subcommittee for monitoring the activities in the field of consumer protection and restriction of monopolies Mr. Stoyan Nikolov Taslakov from the Parliamentary Group of Party ARGINATION. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its own orders it has authorised the dispatch and use of aircraft with their crews from the members of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Kingdom of Belgium and back to the Hellenic Republic and vice versa. The notifications were received on 17 and 18 March 2022, respectively, with input numbers 47-203-09-24 and 47-203-09-25, and were submitted to the Defence Committee. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by his order he has authorised the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and its territorial waters of servicemen from the United States and the Republic of Romania, their statutory armaments and equipment to participate in joint preparation under the Programme for Development of Partnership with Servicemen from the Republic of Bulgaria until 10 April 2022. The preparation is not related to military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as activities to prevent military actions conducted by others, another State or organisation of armed forces. The notification was received on 21 March 2022, with reference to No 47 203 09-26, and granted to the Defence Committee. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the Programme Budgets as of 31 December 2021 from: Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; Ministry of Finance; State Commission on Information Security; Ministry of Transport and Communications; Ministry of Youth and Sports, State Fund................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The reports shall be made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the relevant portfolio committees. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute about the main results of the labour force monitoring in 2021. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to point one: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR JUSTICE. There has been a report from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Mr. Mateev, you're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 47-202-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022. At its regular meeting on 16 March 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 47-202-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022. The meeting was attended... The bill was presented by the Minister of Justice. Mrs. Yordanova pointed out that it proposes the cancellation of the Career Bonuses for the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chief Inspector, the Inspectors of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council and the Administrative Directors and their alternates. She pointed out that the career growth of elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chief Inspector and Inspectors of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council is an unfair advantage over the other judges, prosecutors and investigators, since after their dismissal from the electoral posts they have the right to be reinstated to the post of judge, prosecutor or investigator of one degree higher than the one before the election in the judicial authorities. It was added that, contrary to the competition beginning, such a privilege was also granted to the executives and their alternates, who, following their dismissal from the position concerned, could return to an equal position in another judicial authority. The Minister of Justice noted that the career growth of magistrates should depend solely on their work and be the result of the professional and moral qualities assessed within the framework of the competition procedures provided for in the law. She added that career development without competition constitutes interference in self-government and undue advantage within the judiciary and should be removed. Ms. Yordanova pointed out that the Supreme Judicial Council and the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council carry out administrative and control functions different from their content from the activities of carrying out the real activities of the magistrates, which also provides for the abolition of the right for the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chief Inspector and the inspectors of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council to receive monetary compensation for subsequent discharge. The legislative initiative proposes the closure of the Specialized Criminal Court, the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court and the special prosecutors concerned. The Minister of Justice summarized that for the ten-year period of their activities specialized criminal courts and their respective prosecutors have not achieved the goals set in their establishment aimed at effective results against serious organised crime and corruption practices on the high levels of power. She added that the Report on the Rule of Law for 2020 found the lack of consistent results in cases of high-level corruption, as found in the 2018 Cooperation and Verification Mechanism Report. The Minister noted that the critical assessments of the European institutions, the public perception of the inefficiencies of countering corruption and the data from the annual reports of the judicial authorities testify to the need for organizational changes in relation to the departments of specialized criminal justice and the closure of these structures. The transitional and final provisions shall lay down the personnel status of judges, prosecutors and investigators following the closure of specialised criminal justice and the terms and conditions for their reassignment. The provisions determine the powers of the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council to disclose judicial, prosecutorial and investigative positions. The closure of pending legal proceedings shall be arranged, subject to the principle of continuity of the formation of the Court of Justice, providing that, in cases where a closed or an administrative hearing is held, the judges who are not reassigned to the Sofia City Court, respectively, to be seconded to the Sofia Court of Appeal to participate in the proceedings pending their proceedings. The Law proposes amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure which govern the conviction of crimes falling within the jurisdiction of the closed specialized criminal court by transferring it to the district and district courts under common rules of family and local jurisdiction. The order for the surrender and acceptance of the non-executors and of the completed cases, files and archives shall be determined and the Sofia City Court shall be the successor of the Specialized Criminal Court and the Sofia Court of Appeal of the Specialized Criminal Court of Appeal. On the bill were received opinions from the Specialized Criminal Court, the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court and Judge Sylvia Ruseva of the Specialized Criminal Court. The representatives of the Specialized Criminal Court and the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court shall state in their written observations that the provisions proposed are unconstitutional and discriminatory, as they constitute direct interference of the legislature in the work of the judiciary and create a different order for the reassignment of magistrates by the specialised courts, which puts them at a disadvantage to other judges. It is stated that the procedure envisaged for reassignment of the Judges of the Specialized Criminal Court cannot guarantee the continuity of the formation of the Court of Justice as there is a non-execution of the criteria for reassignment. The opinion stresses that all judges in the specialised courts hold the relevant positions on the basis of procedures and successful competitions and draws attention to the principle of independence of judges. The Chairman of the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court stated that the closure of the specialised courts would be entirely to the detriment of the Bulgarian society and would constitute a retreat from the commitments made to our European partners. He compared the trial before the introduction of specialized criminal jurisdictions by providing information on the European Commission's assessments under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism over the years. Mr. Ushev added that objective assessments show significant progress and solid results in the fight against organised crime and drew attention to the risk for Bulgaria's criminal policy to return the cases against organised crime to be dealt with on the residence of the defendants, specifying that this would increase the risk of impact on the investigating authorities on the ground. Judge Valeva added that when comparing the indicators of the work of the appeals courts, as reflected in the reports of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the lack of results claimed in the reasons, but on the contrary, a positive assessment of the work of the court was given. She defined the proposed reassignment rules as unprecedented. The Specialized Criminal Court noted that the envisaged transitional provisions do not guarantee the status of magistrates and are contrary to the principle of independence of the judiciary. Ms. Rykova voiced concerns that magistrates who are not satisfied with the decision on destination will appeal the decisions of the Supreme Judicial Council on an unpredictable basis and with vague consequences for the proceedings that have not been completed. She made detailed arguments against the justification of the reasons for the bill by analysing the activities of the court, its workload and powers. Judge Ruseva pointed out that the provisions governing the reassignment are exceptional and contrary to art. 194 of the Law on the Judiciary. It added that the proposed procedures are mutually exclusive and this would lead to the failure of the personnel body to meet the norm by defining the criteria for re-reassignment as inadmissible and discriminatory. Judge Panayotov added that the refusals to use special intelligence means are much more than the permissions given and the alleged abuse of these procedural means are false. The President of the District Court of Tryavna noted that the Bill suffers from significant shortcomings. He added that his adoption will not lead to an improvement in criminal policy and has an incorrect and ineffective approach, expressing the need for reform in specialised justice. The Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria pointed out that specialized criminal structures are competent throughout the country and noted that with their closure there may be a crisis in the rule of law, given the likelihood of dismissals of judges. Mr. Geshev drew attention to the intended selection of judges, pointing out that the principle of inalienability determines and preserves their employment. The Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria indicated that they would deposit a written opinion on the bill. The Association of Prosecutors in Bulgaria added that specialized justice is the modern and correct European approach to countering organised crime. Mr. Nikolov pointed out that the draft law will make the work of the human rights authorities difficult. The Administrative Director of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office stated that the proposed legislative changes do not correspond to the motives and violate the principle of independence of the judiciary. She pointed out that there is no comparative analysis of the results of the closed structures and the consequences of the adoption of these proposals for other courts and prosecutions entrusted with the functions of the closed structures. Ms. Madzharova noted the need to set a reasonable deadline for the adoption and transmission of the pending and closed cases. Mr. Krastev voiced concerns that after the transfer of cases on the ground there may be long disputes over jurisdiction between the different jurisdictions. Mr. Ivaylo Angelov, Administrative Head of the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office, and Mrs. Kalina Chapkenova expressed the opinion that the return to an equal position cannot be regarded as a career bonus because the recovery is at the level to which the magistrate reached after a competition. Mr. Angelov drew attention to the nature of the work and duties of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, adding that the inability of magistrates to choose where to return to work after the end of their term of office can lead to poor performance of their duties due to the risk of being returned to the body they have examined. Ms. Chapkenova, member of the Supreme Judicial Council, stated that the career compensation aims to ensure the work of the members of the Board of Directors in the disciplinary groups entrusted with carrying out checks against magistrates and clarified that the cancellation of this possibility would result in a refusal to carry out real checks against a magistrate who, after returning a member of the examiner to the judicial system, could be his direct supervisor or colleague. She added that the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, when performing an election position, cannot participate in competition procedures for the promotion of office and the dropping of career compensation will put members in a disadvantage to other magistrates who can participate in professional development procedures. Ms. Chapkenova also pointed out that the right of the administrative leaders to be appointed to another equal authority has the same functions as they initiate disciplinary proceedings and personnel changes in the structures entrusted to them. It pointed out that the mixed competence of subject-matter and subject-matter does not make specialised judicial bodies exceptional by referring to Decision No 6 of 2018 in constitutional case No 10 of 2017. Ms. Disheva expressed her opinion that the status of judges in the termination of specialized courts and prosecutions is ensured by the reference made to art. 194 of the Law on the Judicial Authority, and the envisaged operational autonomy of the Supreme Judicial Council ensures the establishment of clear criteria and rules for reassignment of magistrates. She clarified that the Supreme Judicial Council is now deciding on the secondment of magistrates to complete proceedings and this procedure is not a precedent. Ms. Mutafova pointed out the need to refine the provisions on the status of judicial officers, the change of competences in the Code of Criminal Procedure and the rules of the administration of the assets and liabilities of the closed units. She added that there are prerequisites for direct intervention in the judiciary, contrary to the principle of irreparability of judges and conditions for disproportionate appointment of employees. Ms. Mutafova said that the cancellation of the career compensation would undermine the independence and impartiality of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, who are entrusted with management, personnel, attestation and disciplinary powers against magistrates. The Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council expressed disagreement with the proposed changes and with the reasons for the bill. Ms. Tochkova noted that when drafting the Draft Law, the high competence of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council was not taken into account and explained in detail the need to preserve the provisions concerning the right to monetary compensation and the possibility of career growth after the end of the term of office as an electoral body. Judge Velinova of the Bulgarian Judicial Association noted that the data in the reasons are incorrect and do not reflect the objective workload and the results of the work of the specialized courts. She added that the Law requires the Magistrate's consent when reappointed and pointed out that the proposed norms contradict the principle of irreparability of judges and the criteria for reassignment do not comply with the principle of separation of authorities. Ms. Ina Lulcheva, Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Law, pointed out that the European Commission had never recommended the establishment of a special court, and noted that the absolute statute of limitations for most crimes indicted to the special court was 15 years, adding that the concerns expressed about termination of proceedings due to limitation were unfounded. She focused on pressing charges in the specialized prosecutor's office and clarified that depending on the legal qualification of the crime as an organized criminal group or complicity, the court's conviction changed, which she found unacceptable. Ms. Lulcheva expressed the support of the High Council of Laws to the submitted bill. The Chamber of Investigators added that the arrangements for the status of junior investigators should be improved. Ms. Emilia Nikolova, President of the Jury Union in Bulgaria, pointed out that the closure of the Specialized Criminal Court will lead to an increase in cases in the Sofia City Court and justified the need to increase the number of the jury to the Sofia City Court or the relevant competent district courts. Compatibles stated that the specialized courts were ineffective, but defined the bill as a discussion and clarified that it did not improve criminal proceedings. The representative of the initiative "Justice for everyone" noted that the results of the activities of the specialized criminal jurisdictions do not meet the high public expectation for dealing with corruption and organised crime, while their powers show the signs of extraordinary justice. The Unification of Free Lawyers indicated that the proposed closure of specialized courts and prosecutions was correct, and added that there was never a need for such specialized jurisdictions and the results of their work were unsatisfactory. Attention was paid to the need to refine the transitional provisions in order to ensure the status of magistrates holding positions at the Supreme Judicial Council and the Inspectorate, which will be restored to the bodies closed by the Bill after their term of office is terminated. In the public discussion held by the Ministry of Justice, the bill will create better and faster justice. Ms. Kovacheva pointed out that the purpose of the proposed procedure for reassignment of magistrates is the achievement of a balance in the workload of the judicial authorities, subject to the principle of irreparability of judges. She added that the transitional provisions reflect the opinions of the Supreme Judicial Council, Supreme Court of Cassation, as well as comments from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, specialized criminal jurisdictions and other participants. Deputy Minister Dechev pointed out that the concerns about local dependencies in dealing with the transferred cases are unfounded and gave as an example sign cases considered at the moment on the ground and not by the specialized criminal justice, which ended within the time limit and the defendants received effective sentences. In the discussion of the draft took part the MPs Milen Mateev, Miroslav Ivanov, Petar Kosev, Petar Kulenski, Andrey Mihailov, Atanas Slavov, Krum Zarkov, Yavor Bozhankov, Anna Alexandrova, Dani Kanazireva, Nikolina Angelkova, Branimir Balachev and Hamid Hamid. The representatives of the parliamentary groups of "We are continuing the change," "BSP for Bulgaria", "There is such a people", "Democratic Bulgaria" and "Renaissance" declared that they will support the bill. Mr. Kosev said that specialized justice functions as a parallel justice system which is compromised and does not meet the public expectations for effective justice against organised crime and corruption. Mr Kulenski noted that the main function of the specialized court is the fight against organised crime, but evident from the analysis of the Report on the activities of the Courts of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2020, only 2.7 per cent of the cases are proceedings in substance, which shows the low effectiveness of specialised justice. Mr. Slavov pointed out that the Special Court with its activities in authorising special intelligence funds against peaceful citizens exercising their constitutionally guaranteed right to protest and demonstrations in 2020 has allowed a form of political repression. He added that these repressions are contrary to constitutional and European standards which should be defended in the exercise of procedural rights and, as a consequence, there is a loss of public trust in specialised justice. Members of parliament Bojankov and Zarkov said that specialized justice is an ineffective mechanism for combating organised crime and corruption, such as the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) has consistently opposed this procedural order over the years. Mr. Mihailov pointed out that the criminal repression against corruption and crimes committed by organized criminal groups will not be affected by the adoption of the draft law and the provided transitional provisions provide for the proceedings by providing sufficient guarantees to protect the status of magistrates in the closure of specialized courts and prosecutions. People's representative Petar Petrov said the closure of specialized courts and prosecutions will not improve criminal proceedings, but outlined detailed arguments about the results of their activities and described them as unsatisfactory. The GERB-SDS parliamentary group said the data presented in the draft's motives are manipulative. Ms. Kanazireva pointed out that the closure of specialized justice was not judicial reform and added that the non-executive proceedings with legal and factual complexity before the specialised courts were 144 in 13 170 volumes with 886 defendants and expressed concerns that the planned closure could lead to the blocking and termination of criminal proceedings. She set out detailed arguments against the envisaged amendments to the conviction and return of criminal proceedings, expressing criticism against the provisions governing the status of magistrates by the closed special units. Ms. Angelkova presented data from the reports of the European Commission under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism for 2017, 2018 and 2019 and summarized that the assessments show lasting positive results of the specialized justice in the fight against organised crime. National Representative Hamid Hamid pointed out that the activities of specialised courts are the reason for dropping the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism and the closure of working structures is unacceptable. After the discussion, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Constitutional Tribunal, 5 votes against the Constitutional Tribunal, and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill of amendment and supplement to the Judicial Tribunal Act, No 47-202-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u45	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. I am opening the discussion on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. To speak, Peter Kyosev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! We from "We Continue the Change" believe that the draft in question is an extremely important prerequisite for the beginning of the reform of the judiciary in Bulgaria. Today, at the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, we are the ones who must complete the process initiated by our predecessors. Today we must take the first significant step towards restoring the constitutional function of the court, namely a defender of the rights and legitimate interests of the citizens and organizations in Bulgaria. In 2010, it was proclaimed that the Specialized Court and Prosecutor's Office will deal with cases against serious organised crime. The purpose of their creation and existence was to ensure a close specialization of these magistrates, to acquire the same deeper knowledge and to gain practical experience to improve the quality, efficiency and speed of law enforcement. Those goals didn't come true. What happened in the last 10 years with specialized justice? Specialized not in matter, but in number of cases, number of defendants, namely three or more persons, in other words, organized criminal group. The institutions of law were forgotten, such as co-instigation, incitement and aid, and everything began to be qualified as an organized criminal group with only one purpose to be examined by the Specialized Court. In this way, it was allowed to determine, unilaterally by the legal qualification of the act, his conviction before the Specialized Court. At the same time, a privileged regime has been established for specialized magistrates who receive better conditions than the magistrates of the common courts. This also created a frank imbalance between magistrates within the judiciary itself. In 2017, specialized authorities were allowed to investigate and deal with cases of crimes committed by high levels of power. Five years later, I ask: where are the investigations, where are the indictments, where are the convictions? Thus, instead of the alleged specialization of his activities, with a focus on serious organised crime and the fight against high-level corruption, the Special Court has become an alternative common criminal court, which is extremely ineffective and not working in relation to these objectives. In the last two years, why are criminal cases of a general nature less than 5% of all cases during this period? For the last two years, why are more than half of all cases received and filed requests for authorisation to use special intelligence tools, as well as requests to impose non-violence measures? How many of them are legal, and how often is their unlawfulness found when it is too late? Why does the State pay huge benefits under the State's liability law and municipalities for damage to victims of these unlawful acts? And why was Bulgaria sentenced by the Strasbourg Court repeatedly for violating the European Convention on Human Rights, admitted precisely by specialized justice for the last year? Again, I ask: where are the outstanding cases and cases of high public interest in which there is a judgment? Specialized justice has definitely failed to achieve the goal of its creation and justify public expectation. Specialized justice to date is completely devoid of trust and extremely compromised by society, and when there is no confidence, it is also devoid of content. The idea of the emergence of specialised bodies in the judiciary was presented to the public as a result of a recommendation from the European Commission. However, the truth is that none of the European Commission's reports have such an explicit recommendation. It is mentioned the need for changes in pre-trial proceedings and the creation of a......... specialization within the judiciary........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is no mention of the establishment of specialized courts and prosecutions. The bill under discussion today will carry out precisely this. Return of cases to the system of common courts and restore balance and justice in their consideration. That is why we from "Keep the Change" will support the Bill. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kyosev. For the line, Danny Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u48	Honourable Members, these statements are extremely manipulative because, first of all, this is not a judicial reform. You offer absolutely nothing new. You are returning an old legislation which has been proven to be ineffective back in the past. If you were such fighters for justice, you would offer something new from which we as a society would have expectations as efficiency. Apart from that, you're also using your numbers to be incredibly manipulative. The cases of general nature in our courts are mostly in the Sofia City Court, followed by the Plovdiv District Court and then by the Specialized Criminal Court. Nearly all 26 other courts of your logic should be closed because they do not have a sufficient number of cases of a general nature. Apart from that, speculation with the European Court of Justice! Colleagues, read the stats. The most cases before the European Court of Justice are under art. 6 of the Convention, namely a fair trial within a reasonable time. And you, in this regard, in this so-called legal reform quotes, are not proposing any new mechanism to optimize the criminal process. What you will do really is only put at risk the very serious criminal cases that are pending with legal and factual complexity and transfer organized criminal groups to a place where we all know that these groups, their leaders and participants have permanent positions and therefore not only do you not overcome these dependencies, regional ones, but also deepen them. What you're doing is really nothing new. You transfer some cases from one court to another court without improving the legal framework at all. Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Are there any other lines to Peter Kyosev? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kyosev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kanazireva, it is no accident that I started my speech that this is a prerequisite for the beginning of the reform of the judiciary, because, to be honest, the debate on the closure of these courts began around the time they were opened. And when we talk about reform, we need to reach a normal level. With the introduction of specialized courts, the level fell below ground zero. With this, we begin to balance things a little bit and from here on we set the path to the start of real judicial reform. With regard to data, I comment specifically on them from the Report on the activities of the Specialized Criminal Court in 2021, they are actually very clearly visible in one paragraph, so I can provide it to you subsequently to get acquainted. With regard to the pending cases, it is clearly established and regulated how they will be completed and there is absolutely no danger that they will not be completed and, in many cases, those which have begun with an intervention hearing will even be completed by the same Chambers. With regard to organised crime on the ground and the province, what concerns me in your speech is that you are in fact questioning the integrity and professionalism of magistrates in these areas. That is to say, in your logic, let us close down all the criminal justice that is in the province and all the cases to be dealt with by the Sofia City Court, by the Sofia District Court, so that we can be sure that there will be no influence on these persons. Magistrates respect the law, observe the Code of Ethics, and for this reason I very much believe in prosecutors and magistrates in the province, who are outside Sofia. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kyosev. Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! A second attempt is made to close the specialized court and prosecution, and unfortunately, I am convinced that whatever arguments are heard in the Chamber or in the Legal Commission or in a working group, if created, they will not matter. Whatever statistics are drawn, whatever reports are quoted, they will not matter. Actually, professional debate doesn't seem to matter. This decision has simply been made to close this court and this prosecution, and whatever as an argument to point out, it will not be heard. Unfortunately, the judicial reform, so important in words at least to you, is expressed in the closure or reform of two bodies, one being KKCONPI, the other being the court and prosecution, simply because they do not like the ruling coalition, without any professional argument. Colleagues, in all the years that I have observed, and in some periods and dealing with judicial reform, I have really looked at one, and sometimes we find something very quickly on recommendations from either the European Commission or the Venice Commission, or some report from NGOs, then so quickly because someone does not like and is not satisfied with its work, without arguments we close it, without analysis. You came with the request for substantial judicial reform. Nothing like that happens. What are you really going to do with this law to explain to these colleagues who are not convinced that they have read so carefully. Yes, a colleague, the existing situation was proven ineffective until 2010. The Specialized Court and the Prosecutor's Office, in relation to organised crime, have been working de facto since 2012. Those who are a little older remember what was the situation in Bulgaria then regarding organized crime. The Specialized Court and Prosecutor's Office were established in 2012. There was a debate at the time, by the way, whether to include corruption on the high levels of power, if you remember, was created in relation to organised crime only. Each new body needs time to work. And in the importer's report, unfortunately, because I was hoping that at least there would be correct data there, and the reports regarding the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism are also cited in absolute coup. Yes, in the first years of the existence of these two bodies their work and the findings of their work were not positive. It took time to create, to start specialization, to gain experience and trials. But in recent years, we have seen a significant change in this. And not only in terms of organised crime, it was one of the first indicators in the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, which ended because it was said: these bodies are working well. We're temporarily shutting down surveillance on these indicators. De facto means we're shutting down surveillance. The law you are proposing brings back the old state of affairs proven ineffective, non-working, and no one has any intention of insulting the magistrates of the district courts, colleagues. It is clear that in most of them there are few people, people know each other, that is just demographics in Bulgaria. This is about simple demographics, nothing more. Also for specialization, specific because a lot of these cases are really heavy, there needs to be specific specialization. They require much more specific knowledge. You return the old situation in terms of organised crime and in fact create a new Specialized Court in terms of high-level corruption, i.e. City Court and City Prosecutor's Office. Because in terms of corruption, this is not a return to the situation before 2017. In fact, you are creating a specialized court and specialized prosecutor's office in relation to corruption on the high levels of power. I do not like this court, so I will set up my specialized court. Excuse me, colleagues, but this is not a reform. Actually, City Court, expanding faces. Before that were the people with immunity, the MPs, the members of the Council of Ministers and the magistrates. At the moment you complement the people, you know them who are the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chief Inspectorate, the members of the CPCONPI and so on, not to mention, very strangely by what criteria chosen. At the same time, you miss out on local authorities and on all the crimes committed by them, not only in relation to the ones related to their service, the so-called corruption crimes are much more. That is to say, you are creating a Specialized Court on very strange criteria selected bodies, extending it to the Sofia City Court, for all crimes, not only those committed by service, including crashes, or whatever you think of, a domestic scandal, alimony and so on. This can't be reform! I do not see any argument in the Report, nor in the evaluation, nor in considering what this legislative amendment will improve the work, the investigation of corruption, organised crime and the responsibility of those who commit these crimes. Not only will it not improve, but will spoil something that works well in terms of organised crime. And yes, there is more to be desired in terms of corruption, but let us not forget that the amendments took place at the end of 2017. Very difficult will be final sentences in such a short time from these courts. So, please, at least at second reading in the Commission, because I am convinced what will happen, and listen to professional arguments. Don't just think politically, and within: I don't like these, so I'm going to make my own specialized courts. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Replies to Ekaterina Zaharieva from Peter Kulinski. Here you go, Mr. Kullensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, I cannot accept your arguments that, before the specialized bodies of justice were established, there were no results in the fight against organised crime. On the contrary, there were such results, and there are many examples. I'll just mention some of them "The Insolences," "The Killers," we have effective sentences, in some of these cases we have life sentences without the right to exchange, so I do not agree with your arguments at all. You also made a claim that there was almost pressure on the magistrates of the so-called local derby on the ground. Well, Mrs. Zaharieva, if that were the case, then the prosecution should have self-conceived, since this is a criminal and criminal act. I am not aware of such criminal proceedings initiated by the prosecution for pressure. And we know very well that the prosecution is quickly seizing itself in such acts, as the example is how it pressed charges against the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in connection with possible pressure on the investigation of the draining of the money in the construction of the highway...... Hemus................................the construction of the highway..................................... Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u55	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Second lines to Ekaterina Zaharieva? I won't. A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u56	I'll be brief. Colleague, don't put words in my mouth. I explained very thoroughly why it was ineffective. Two reasons. One is demography and the smaller number of judges and prosecutors, which is why people know each other in a small village. And the other is the specialization of something that is not mentioned at all in the motives, the specialization in these cases. They are indeed heavy, much of them with many defendants or defendants depending on the stage, with very specific knowledge. Yes, there are expertises, yes, but yet specific knowledge is also required of magistrates who either investigate them or then decide their decisions in a court of law. So no one's talking about how they're going to specialize. I hear some ideas that specialized departments can be created in the district courts, after which you gave up these ideas and no one actually talks about the Sofia City Court becoming a new Specialized Court, the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office becomes a new Specialized Prosecutor's Office for Corruption. Not only corruption, all crimes committed by a certain category of persons expanded from the state until 2017, at the same time missed mayors, regional governors and so on, local authorities. It is certainly a misguided legislation, in my opinion, without any argument on how it will improve the state of the judiciary in Bulgaria and the expectations of Bulgarian citizens for quick, quality and effective justice in terms of criminal cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Andrey Mihailov for speech, I am also recording Branimir Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! We heard the beginning of the arguments, all of which we listened to in the Legal Committee during a 9-hour meeting. Indeed, in the programmes of all parties represented by the ruling coalition is set as the goal of closing the Specs Court. But I cannot agree with what opposition colleagues say that you are replacing one court with another. That's not true, and it's not because we don't like a court. On the contrary, this court for the ten years and more of its existence, it did not, in fact, justify the purpose for which it was created, we did not notice those expected, dizzying results that were placed on the table when the Court of Justice was set up. Let's go back a little bit, 12 years ago! Then Mr. Tsvetanov is really the truth, then this court was created with not so much the desire to make that aunty specialization, created to surround some courts. In fact, he was wickedly conceived and expected not to bear the results that we expected, which we wanted. We all want to fight corruption. Yes, since 2017, when all these powers have been assigned to him, we do not see a dramatic result. We see no progress in this regard. I'm going back to that nine-hour legal board meeting. Then, in this meeting, what happened? There have been several speeches that have been sneaked out, even by the Special Prosecutor's Office, in which the deficits in the fight against corruption have been recognised precisely in the bodies of the specialized administration of justice. So let us not say that the fight against corruption will suffer. He won't get hurt! Let us not say: "You will expel magistrates. " - No one predicts such a thing. Colleagues, for all those who are not tempted by the legal matter, the Bill does not in any way provide that magistrates who are lawmakers in the Specialized Criminal Court and the Specialized Criminal Court of Appeal are to be expelled. There's no such thing! Besides, let's be honest. It's about 30 magistrates, the judges are 30. So the judiciary can take over these judges. The judiciary doesn't want to chase them. There will be no reception, there will be no lustration. Let's avoid those assessments you'll probably hear from the opposition. We're not talking about this at all. With regard to objective data, at a meeting in the Legal Committee, we observed a statistic throwing and interpreted it differently. However, what is an undisputed fact is the Specialized Court is the home of the SRS. That's the truth. The main authorisations for the operation of special intelligence funds were passed through the Specialized Criminal Court. Yeah, that's legal, but it's a very big surprise why this concentration at the Specialized Criminal Court for the SRS permits? I'm not saying this was the home of the SRS for a reason. So also, the weakest place to counter corruption, note that the Bill does not provide for and there is no such thing as the cases indicted by the Specialized Criminal Court will not end, there will be no effect of lost cases and defendants who will avoid criminal justice. These cases will continue. The principle of inalienability of the composition, inalienability of the composition, will be respected. That is, the magistrates who have started examining a criminal proceedings will continue to look at it in the same building, in the same composition. We simply will not put at risk what is the interest of the state to punish the one for whom there is sufficient evidence that he has committed crimes. The deeds will actually go to the district or the Sofia City Court, according to the phase they are in. And lastly, two things. There was an emotional statement by a judge from the Specialized Court at the Legal Commission, and I even saw tears in her eyes, and her voice trembled. A colleague then said, made a note to her: "Ama, behave institutionally! " - On the contrary, no! I understand these tears of the judge of the Specialized Criminal Court. I understand her because she's a victim like all of us, a victim of a viciously created court, a victim of a distorted justice, as we have been for the past 12 years, we've been victims, and so has she. This is what is going to happen at the moment... our will and what we have declared to our constituents: to close these courts. In view of all this, the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" will support the Bill and, of course, it is indeed reasonable that there is an argument to have a working group, to have an extended period between the two votes, so that texts can be refined so that the process goes quite smoothly, and those risks that are re-exposed by the opposition do not happen. Thank you. [[(Applause from.. We continue Change......................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u59	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. The line to Andrey Mihailov has Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u60	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mihailov, I understand the pleasure of this tribune as a lawyer to plead and speak and it is wonderful, but please be honest and speak with facts. And with regard to your speech, the facts were created in 2012 the Specialized Court and Prosecutor's Office and not at the insistence of any politician, but on recommendations from the European Commission and the Venice Commission. The next thing you said, and I don't think it's true, that's in terms of the 30 judges. Whether there are 30 or 50, dear Mr. Mihailov, these are human destinies, and if all these judges give themselves a reprieve, do not convince the Chamber that these cases will be completed, will be dealt with, and there will be no chaos! It is extremely disrespectful of you to treat this particular electorate in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u61	Danny Kanazireva for the second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u62	Dear Mr. Mihailov, honourable colleagues, dear Minister! I see that here the focus and the speech is entirely political and there is no expertise at all, a judicial reform is being imitated, which will bring about in the future...........we will all witness much more harm to us as a society. Mr. Mikhailov and his colleagues! You allow yourself several times to say the old system was effective, the new one was not effective. At least, in order to protect this thesis, you had to present to all of us MPs a comparative analysis of how many persons have been convicted and properly justified under the new legislation after 2012 and how many such persons have been convicted and justified under the old regulations. Because, again, you're not entering anything new, you're returning the old. Madam Minister, about the corruption cases. They only two years ago because at the end of 2017, that is, we can count from 2018, the high-level corruption cases were those courts to which you want to return them again. In fact, where do you draw the result that it was effective then, and you assume that it will be effective again? Mr. Mihailov, about the 30 judges, they'll almost get a job. Don't talk about the judiciary like that. You know very well that these magistrates are indisputable according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Their status, each and every one of us, examines it through the prism of the heavy criminal cases pending to continue from where they are, and not to return again and start again because the limitation periods are running. They flow from the date of committing the crime. Many of these acts were committed in 2009, 2010, 2011, so there is a chance that these cases could actually be extinguished under the statute that you provided for in § 41, para. 5 et seq. In the statement I will explain in more detail what I mean and I hope to get the answer from you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Third line to Andrey Mihailov from Borislav Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Mihailov, I agree with most of what you have put out. I just want to make the following remark. Yes, indeed the Specialized Court and the Prosecutor's Office went with good intentions, and if they had been met, things would have really looked very different. But unfortunately, these organs have become a political repression apparatus. This is the big problem, honourable colleagues from the political party GERB. If the intentions that started this reform had been fulfilled, yes, things would have been very different and there would not have been this debate at the moment in plenary. But unfortunately, the original idea got twisted and it came to what we are today! I do not believe that there should be any court and prosecution to be used for political pressure and political repression. That is the big problem that we are debating today, and that is why we are in this hall in plenary, and that is why we are having this discussion. I hope the new reform will be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u65	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. That was the third line. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the lines made so, firstly, I would like to start with what my colleague Alexandrova said. I have shown no disrespect or viewed the judges of the Specialized Criminal Court and the Appeals Specialized Court as an electorate. [[(Applause from.. We continue Change......................................................................................]] I never see my colleagues as an electorate! These are my people, our people I address to you because you are a lawyer too, these are our colleagues who have given their lives and professional careers to criminal justice. So the attitude isn't like the electorate, it's like the coworkers. Regarding the depositions you said. That's an interesting argument, but how do you know that there's gonna be withdrawals? How do you know the judges are gonna recuse themselves? [[Applause from "We continue the Change" and "ITN," comments from GERB-SDS.]] Maybe you have some kind of communication with them? That's weird. And how do you know what will happen in cases? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] So with regard to the rejections, this argument I wrote down was very interesting of you! About what my colleague Kanazireva said. Colleague Kanazireva, statistics are very detailed. I won't bore the gym and everyone who looks at us with the statistics on the motives and in the Special Court reports. But the results are eloquent. The expected fight against corruption never happened. Regarding what my colleague Gutsanov said. Colleague Gutsanov, I agree with you So the inevitable result is not because we do not like it, but because the results do not show what we wanted. Thank you. [[(Applause from.. We continue Change......................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u67	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. For a statement, I would first give the word to Danny Kanazireva and then to Peter Kulinski. Come in for a statement, Mrs. Kanazireva. Then for speech is Peter Kulenski, then Tsvetan Enchev, then Yavor Bozhankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u68	Dear colleagues, you are presenting as a reform the closure of an entire segment of the judiciary, whose main function is the fight against organised crime. With this bill, the result will in no way be an increase in confidence in the judiciary, because you are returning an old situation and nothing new you are proposing, and on the contrary, it will be a negative sign. Talking to people back in the years, I suppose, and you know that their main objections or complaints are the lack or request to secure a quick and fair trial. The lawyers know better than I do that formalism, which still exists, and the number of ways a case can drag on, go back and for years to take, and these unsolicited talk on the air on Saturday and Sunday, as well as on Weiber and Skype, we will question a person in another country with whom our country does not have a legal aid contract, are simply more ridiculous. What I am going to address and what I think we need to objectively know society and have a real idea is on two issues. First of all, the cases that are pending at the moment, I would repeat that only in those with factual and legal complexity, the accused persons are 886, the cases are over 13,000 volumes, the witnesses are over 7,000, the property is over 1,000. These are cases of human trafficking, drug trafficking, extortion, fraud and many other serious crimes. I believe that both you and in the public interest are to continue these cases as far as they are and not take any risk of being returned from the beginning, as the procedure has been signed, I firmly believe that a huge risk is being taken. You're creating a whole new procedure for reassigning judges. You have recorded that the SJC reveals numbers according to the workload of the criminal wards in the respective equal courts of the district and appeals. This means, as an example I will give it, for example, these people from the specialized courts work and live in Sofia for more than 10 years and discover for example three units in the Sofia City Court, three units in the court of appeal, Sofia, and all the rest of the country. Madam Minister, the lowest load in Vidin, Montana, Smolyan, Yambol, Targovishte I speak at district court level. You have recorded that if they are not ranked at their first request and application, you will proceed to filing a second one for occupying the other places. No magistrate who has endured a contest can be forced to apply for another court's employment by the one he has requested. In the meantime, he has the status of inalienable, he cannot be dismissed and his status remains unclear, as he will not apply for another court outside Sofia and will begin to appeal the overall procedure, and these cases which he deals with will remain on logs for an indefinite period of time. I tell all this in connection with the fate of these heavy deeds. This paragraph is very controversial, categorically for me will lead to a great many cases, because none of the magistrates from Sofia will go to Vidin to work to post it from there, and can continue their cases, which risk continuing to run the limitation periods and there is a risk for these cases. The second problem is the redesign of the defendant. Returning the old system and transferring cases to a regional level, I firmly believe that you are taking a huge lobbying and corruption risk. There is no one who can deny that in a limited local community, where organized criminal groups act and where their leaders, accomplices have established contacts and positions, this will lead to an improvement in the detection of crimes. On the contrary, it will lead to a much lower degree of disclosure, a much more difficult comprehensive objective investigation and collection of evidence and thus not only regional dependencies are not overcome, on the contrary they are deepening, but not talking about cases of cross-border nature. How do you think some authorities with territorial limited capabilities will do better than those with national competence, who have already established cooperation with international investigative bodies at present?! For statistics I will not stop because they are clear and they are not true and it is a complete speculation that, for example, agreements in the Specialized Court are concluded much more than in other courts. The numbers say otherwise in the Sofia City Court are much more than in the Specialized Court, in the Plovdiv District and in Burgas too, than in the Specialized Court. The result of the so-called judicial reform will clearly be only one single frustration of the handling of the cases by delaying them and dragging them through time for an indefinite period of time. Be assured that so settled in your draft text there will be many complaints, it will lead to a blocking of cases. Yes, there will be withdrawals and self-indulgences, there will also be organizational difficulties and the result will not be an increase in the quality of the law enforcement process, but on the contrary will lead to its deterioration. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Are there any lines to Danny Kanazireva? Here you go, Mr. Gochev. Stoyan Taslakov is also recording for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Kanazireva, thank you for your structured speech and for the analysis you did on the bill. I have two points that I want to address from the things you said. The first point is about the depositions. Since you say that as a result of this law, there will be many reprieves, which will lead to a view of the cases from the beginning and as a result will be delayed, it is also possible that the limitation periods will expire. What I would like to read to you is the provision that exists in several procedural laws concerning the dismissals, and it is said that a judge can recuse himself and I quote here:... when he may be considered prejudiced or interested directly or indirectly in the outcome of the case. I do not see anything in this bill that could lead to a ground for absolvations that did not exist before the adoption of the bill. What is said with this statement and with this opinion is that the rejections will occur after the adoption of the Bill, and shows some very low opinion and underestimate of the Bulgarian judges and magistrates. I can't imagine that acting Bulgarian magistrates would only take turns showing us how they can act, and rather this is unacceptable. I cannot imagine such behavior from the Bulgarian magistrates, rather we expect that they will act with high moral qualities and professionalism that we have seen so far from them. To tell you the truth, I do not expect such withdrawals to happen, and this would be very surprising to me and would be a very big shock for the Bulgarian judiciary. On the issue of local dependencies, which is also a refrain, which has been repeated several times since this tribune, if there are such local dependencies that we also hear from our constituents, then the mechanisms for countering these dependences exist in the common system of the structure of the judicial system and of the investigative bodies. During the discussion in the Legal Commission of the Draft Law Mr. Geshev even admitted that he has information about dependences between prosecutors and local public bodies. The question here is why Mr. Geshev has not been activated and has not started the necessary disciplinary proceedings in order to counter this type of addiction. It's not the common court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u71	The weather, Mr. Gochev. Stoyan Taslakov is for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, Mrs. Kanazireva, I have listened carefully to your arguments from nine wells of water you have brought to convince us that these specialized prosecutors and courts are important. However, I would like to remind you of a case in which they did nothing. What did they do last year when the mayor of Stamboliyski and Regional Coordinator of GERB sent the driver, his personal driver appointed to Stamboliiski Municipality, to threaten a candidate for MP? What did you do when video footage was provided, and given that three million people saw it on the Internet when I wrote to you on your own wall, and you didn't know about it, and you pretended you didn't know anything about it?! What did these specialized prosecutors do? If they didn't do anything, what's the point of holding them and supporting them? Let us remove them as quickly as possible, because they serve not just anyone but your former authority. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u73	The third line is from Petar Kyosev and then for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just a few things I'm going to touch on and say again: it's not a reform, it's a return to normality! This is the first step towards starting the reform. As far as cases are concerned, I repeat that they will not start again. The provision is a mechanism in the PIO and it is consistent with the normal course of action so as not to endanger the outcome of these cases. As far as statistics are concerned, we've been throwing ourselves at each other all morning with the Legal Commission, and with you on statistics, and I would actually add something here that even Mr. Taslakov just reminded me of. The problem is not only the statistics that are included in the reports, but the problem is what is not included in the reports, what is not considered by the Special Prosecutor's Office, what there is mass information everywhere for which there are signals, and suddenly for some reason it is not included in these reports. With regard to the rejections, long before I said it, but I ask again: is this an assessment of the bill, or an appeal? Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u75	Thank you, Mr. Kyosev. Here you are, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u76	Colleagues, frivolous arguments. Honestly, I don't know where to start. First of all, Mr. Gochev. Mr. Gochev, I will explain to you about the depositions, but most importantly, as you have signed the re-election procedure, you are putting the continuation of cases at risk, as this procedure has been introduced for these judges. Since we are following the principle of continuity, the composition has changed, the case begins again. This legal framework does not guarantee the continuation of cases because there will be no judge, or at least 90% of them will appeal the opportunity given to them, for example, instead of in Sofia to start, to start in Vidin or Montana. But let's understand it, you can't rename a magistrate against his will, you can't introduce new selection criteria against magistrates who have already won contests. Here is the greatest risk, because until there is clarity on the status of judges, cases, hundreds of cases of serious crimes, will be suspended, will not be able to be continued, or the other option is to start over because of non-compliance with the principle of non-changeability. About the depositions. Yes, when the cases are scattered locally on a regional basis, many of them have, which judges in their cases are taking a fall, they are self-removering because of precisely those dependencies that exist in smaller regions and local communities. Mr. Taslakov, I don't know what role your involvement in the Special Court was in, and I can't understand it at all, and I can't comment on it. Colleagues, I say again, we have submitted a bill of change to both the SPB and the PPC. I see that the biggest interest is in high-level corruption cases. Change their conviction, move them to the Sofia City Court and, respectively, the Appeals, but don't touch organized crime, it'll be chaos. [[Laughter]] There's gonna be chaos that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u77	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u78	Look, you're playing along, but the chaos you're about to cause in the justice system will be even greater than the rest you've caused in every single public sphere. Organized crime directly affects society. If you'd at least bothered to read what cases are being conducted...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u79	Time, Mrs. Kanazireva!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u80	...and what faces, and what criminal groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u81	Thank you. The next statement is by Petar Kulenski, then are by Tsvetan Enchev and Yavor Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u82	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! During the meeting of the Legal Commission last week, we threw nine hours at each other with arguments for.................................................................................... Some of them were substantial, others not there, others had nothing to do with reality at all. We from "We continue the Change" will support the closure of specialized justice, but it is good, before we close these specialized bodies, to see what we will actually close. We are shutting down the Special Prosecutor's Office, which for two years did not want to investigate the bundles and gold bars in a former prime minister's drawer, as well as who Mata Hari is and what she knows about it. [[Replication by National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]] We are closing the Special Prosecutor's Office, which for two years did not want to understand how a Bulgarian model has five million euros to acquire a luxury property in Barcelona, is there money laundering here and are politicians involved in this? We are shutting down the Specialized Prosecutor's Office, which for two years did not want to investigate the case of the Eight Dwarves, Petyo the Euro and is there a blackmail scheme involving magistrates who are part of these specialized bodies. We are shutting down the Special Prosecutor's Office, which for more than two years refuses to question a witness who claims to have information about corruption schemes on the higher levels of power which have resulted in damage to the state of 556m euros. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u83	Leva!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u84	Leva, I'm sorry. We are shutting down the Special Court, which in 2020 issued hundreds of permissions to listen to peaceful protesters citizens, issued permission to eavesdrop on us, colleagues, because we all in this part of the Chamber were at these protests, under the pretext of preparing an armed coup for the takeover of power. [[Shows to "Keep On Changing"]] [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] Excuse me, but it's like we, colleagues who were at the legitimate protest, had a shotgun on our shoulders and went to take GERB out of power. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov: "You do not! "]] We are shutting down the Specialized Prosecutor's Office, colleagues who for two years did not want to investigate whether the words: Send the C.F.R.S. to smash this guy's face that he does not comply with me.The former Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] We are shutting down specialized justice, which has been unable to solve the case at first instance for eight years, in which, under unclear circumstances, Bulgarian citizens lost 3 billion. lv. [[Reply and partial applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u85	Colleagues, please don't move!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u86	We are shutting down specialized justice, which is why Bulgaria received a number of convictions in the European Court of Human Rights, for which we are currently paying all Bulgarian taxpayers. We are shutting down specialized justice, which did not notice corruption on the high levels of power, so it was necessary for foreign institutions to show us who are the most corrupt people in Bulgaria.................................the sanctions under the law....... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u87	Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u88	We are shutting down specialized justice, colleagues, because it has failed to cope with its task to combat serious organised crime and corruption at the high levels of power. Not only that, it has become a threat to the rule of law in Bulgaria, it has become a bat against the uncomfortable political and business opponents of the former power. We are shutting down specialized justice, colleagues, because Bulgarian citizens wanted judicial reform during the legitimate protest of the summer of 2020 and therefore sent us to parliament to do this. That's why we're shutting down specialized justice, colleagues! Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u89	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Nikolina Angelkova was first, Desislava Atanasova also recorded for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague! You're actually shutting down the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Special Court to put your people in the D.A.'s office. That's what your Prime Minister Kiril Petkov said. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]] In fact, he said: "Our role is to put our people in the prosecution." You are closing specialized justice so that you can create your mechanism and shout in your offices, at your disposal investigative police officers. Why? To give them valuable instructions so that they can deal with uncomfortable people with these opinions that... [[(Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev: That's what you were doing!]] Don't replicate me from where I'm standing! ...these opinions that you don't share. Is this your understanding of quote reform in order to undermine the rule of law, and this has been clearly shown to you by the Bulgarian court? Is this how you intend to make reforms in the state, obviously by putting your people and by ordering at the highest level in the face of the acting prime minister at the moment to order investigative officers to perform certain functions to serve certain interests of defendants? Let us recall whose chief of cabinet was the founder of the party of a certain indictee in the first office with Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov, who is also a regular minister in the current cabinet. There are many questions about your motives for the so-called reform of the judiciary. [[the President signals that time has run out]] [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Second line: Dessislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague, a few lines from what you wrote and read. Did the Bulgarian citizens wish for judicial reform....?....................................... the Bulgarians have sent you here for judicial reform and a change of the Constitution............................................................................................................................... Apropo, when was the Constitutional Amendment Commission established with President Hristo Ivanov, does anyone remember? At the beginning of February. How long has it been without a single meeting of the Commission to change the Constitution in the judicial reform part? [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]] Second, the wiretap. Do you have any idea that the institutions responsible, responsible, not just someone who in the parliamentary tribune is speaking to each other what they want to hear about the use of special intelligence means have already carried out their inspection and have their report. In this sense, do not rest on Boyko Rashkov's claims, because a long time ago it has already been proven that he is just lying. Three, you're talking about KTB. Do I need to remind you what year and under what conditions this bank was destroyed? Who was the prosecutor who defended the state's interest in this case? [[Reply from.. Continue Change.......................................................................................................]] By the way, there are currently proceedings in the Sofia City Court with regard to the Syndicates in the case. It is unlikely that you will have checked it, because you are in no way deepening your legal theory or legal practice. [[(Reply from the National Representative Yavor Bozhankov: Who has done?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u93	Mr. Bojankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u94	Punishment of the Magnitsa. But how are you not ashamed to talk about sanctions "Magnite" and lists "Magnite" provided that the witness is temporarily acting Prime Minister or simply Kiro is referring to you by submitting signals precisely by a person on the list?! [[the President signals that time has run out]] It's the last time I'm done. Why would you want to close down specialized justice? Because there are thousands of tons of cases in this justice. And do you know what the subject of these proceedings is? Prostitution, drug trafficking, drugs, organized crime groups. You will become the guardian of all those who...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u95	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u96	...Bulgarian justice wants to confront the provisions of the law and declare them guilty or innocent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u97	The third line is by Alexander Nestorov. I'm sorry, Mr. Ananiev, Mr. Stoilov, but it was quite a rush for lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I could get you to sign me up for a speech a little later.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u99	I've written you down for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u100	Dear Mr. Kulenski, we are closing the Special Court for this, the Special Prosecutor's Office for that. The arguments that you have put forward will not be commented, but I would like to ask you: did you accidentally miss that you are closing the Special Court, which justified the prosecution, which does not protest the acquittal of the media and energy oligarch Ivo Prokopiev? Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u101	I should have known when you were giving a line. Mr. Kulenski, you're for the back. [[Heckling]] I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members, Dear Replicators! I'll refrain from commenting on the last replicator. Regarding the cases currently ongoing both in the Specialized Court and the files in the Special Prosecutor's Office, we have repeatedly stated that they will not be terminated. They will continue in appropriate order in the district and district courts. Otherwise, I see that colleagues from GERB are too well aware of what cases and what case files are in the specialized bodies. We saw over the weekend that they even have protocols of investigative action and upload them to their Facebook pages, which is absolutely unacceptable. So it's making me distraught, but apparently they're very well-informed. I will conclude with the following: a short time ago, there was a recording in which a chief prosecutor called a Prime Minister. Well, this prime minister was definitely not Kiril Petkov, but was another prime minister. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u103	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. To make a speech, "Tsvetan Enchev." Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u104	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Already in the third consecutive National Assembly we come to this very so-called foundational judicial reform. We are legally removing specialised justice, including court, prosecution, investigative bodies, by erasing the relevant provisions governing them. Quite simply, and I would say, elementaryly, without any hint of pranks of the term, I would say that we need an analysis right here. But there is one which was commissioned by the Supreme Judicial Council on the work of the Specialized Criminal Court and the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court, and in no way did we compare the results of the other district courts in the country. For the reasons for this bill, I will refrain from opinion insofar as they are missing or completely common, contradictory and not relevant. Colleagues, there are lawyers here. What does general public perception mean? Society really expects more. The public wants an effective fight against crime and verdicts, but not sentences at all costs, but fair sentences, as the defendants deserved. And before the establishment of specialized justice, there was public mistrust. What have we done? We created specialized justice. Yes, it has its flaws, but it also has its results. The argument that there were many agreements and few convictions. Well, colleagues, the agreements are a way that the legislator has allowed and legally validated. If we find it wrong or not hard enough, let us perfect it or remove it. All the things that specialized justice didn't achieve as a result. The European institutions still highly appreciated their work and the monitoring of the Bulgarian state on this point was terminated in the 2019 Report. The statement to the international recognition of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria is also the fact that in the next four years our specialized Prosecutor's Office will be headed by the Secretariat of the Permanent Conference of Prosecutors working in cases of organized crime under the auspices of the European Organization for Cooperation and Security. What is the legal logic of this bill, colleagues? For me, there is none: how will we release and reassign magistrates; how will the cases continue; how will we ensure the irreconcilability of the judicial chambers; how will we achieve quick and fair justice for the Bulgarian citizens?! It is no secret to anyone that local addictions are a fact or at least a public secret. On the contrary, I say that the system of specialised justice needs an analysis and, in accordance with this analysis, let us draw the necessary conclusions and take the necessary measures, because of what we are doing Time will show, but I believe that closing is a mistake and is hasty, and hastened, and is an absolute political solution, which, unfortunately, will hardly improve the administration of justice in the Republic of Bulgaria. I hope we don't have to make another crisis, but I think that's where we're going. Thanks, guys. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Enchev. There are lines to Tsvetan Enchev from Nikolina Angelkova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Enchev, I would like to ask you, and you should accordingly ask the government, as you say that it is really the place to do a thorough analysis: why and on what basis should the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office be closed, and not just on the basis of what they smell of the motives, namely: from this to carry out political repression. To ask, in fact, because in the main information anti-corruption search engine of the government Google leaked information that further arrests of the opposition are imminent: will this be based again on analysis, or on witness testimony by witness Kiril Petkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Second line to Mr. Enchev from Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u108	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear Mr. Enchev, two things have impressed me in your speech. One was that you expressed yourself for the closure of the Special Court and the prosecution as a failure. I think it might be a bad idea if you buy a new house and you have to paint it. But this house, which is currently built and should be dealing with justice, should be pushed entirely because it is used as a bat, but not only against politicians and against business, but also against Bulgarian society. As colleagues have also mentioned, you know that hundreds of people were tapped at summer protests. Hundreds. We're talking maybe 800, 900 people. The D.A.'s office is requesting from the Special Court, the Special Court is authorizing an immediate hearing in five minutes, and the wiretap is a fact. The other thing I heard today is that both GERB and DPS are talking about an analysis of a word that you usually laugh at, and now suddenly you want an analysis?! I think it's too late for analysis, and these bats need to be closed. Once they are closed, then the judicial reform will continue. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u109	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Is there a third line to Tsvetan Enchev? [[Heckling]] Mr. Hamid, from Ivan Dimitrov is the third line. Are you speaking or for a line? [[Heckling]] For a line. Let's give the floor to Ivan Dimitrov and then it's you. [[Heckling]] Thank you, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u110	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Colleague Enchev, I cannot agree with you and your findings as to whether there should be and whether justice itself has fulfilled its role and whether it is a legal analysis. Yeah, the analysis was done. For more than two years, this analysis has already been done. The results of the analysis are that this justice is ineffective and it makes no sense. There was no point at the time of its creation, as it was never specialized at this time and since the beginning of its creation. It is also spoken by colleagues from GERB, from you and from all the others how, you see, there should be a great specialization of judges to deal with heavy cases, but in fact just to tell you that each one of the judges who is in the Specialized Criminal Court is working all kinds of cases. In other words, they also work for robberies, and for thefts, and for thefts, and for financial frauds, and deeds, and for whatever else. The only specialization is in terms of whether the crime is committed by two people or by three people. That is, the only number of perpetrators is actually the so-called specialization that there is in this justice. I therefore absolutely do not agree with the fact that specialized justice is being closed in this case. There is no difference between so-called specialised justice and general justice, which is in the courts, except for the number of persons committing the crime. As at the beginning of the Report of the President of the Commission was pointed out, the actual crimes which are seen in this court and which are not seen in other courts are, for the most part, crimes committed under ordinary complicity, but statistics require that they be qualified in this way. There is much talk about the assessment of the European Court of Justice and the removal of monitoring. Please don't abuse this thing. Nowhere in the Report does it say that specialized justice has done its job, but it says that justice has generally improved and that is why this monitoring is not necessary. That's why I couldn't agree with Mr. Enchev, so I'll take the floor again later.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u111	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Enchev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u112	Thanks for the lines, guys. Mrs. Angelkova, how will the saga continue with what we watch on TV, I cannot answer, and to tell you the truth, I think I will concentrate on today's debate. Mr. Ananiev, I said for the cousure that specialized justice and justice certainly has its faults, but I'm not sure it's closure. That's why I was also talking about analysis because the things we do, including you, since you manage the state, you have been systematically talking about analyses and based on these analyses, whether they will be municipalities, whether they will be departments, whether they will be ministries, you are deciding whether to finance them or not. Whether to increase their salaries, anything. According to the same logic, in the third National Assembly we are talking about an analysis of a meaningful analysis to see what happened, what the results are and what these people have done so far and what awaits us from here on out. Because when we shut it down, we've already done that before we had to do that, and there wasn't any, and we saw that we had to do that. What will happen from now on, time will show, and I hope that we can be here together and judge from now on. It's for the cuss. In terms of... For what students, for what protests? For example, if we take the Sarafovo case as an example, what politicians?! This is terrorism, Mr. Ananiev. I mean, we're talking about pretty serious things around the world here. Who was listening to who, where, and what he was. I've been a student, too, and I've jumped the streets. I have also made sure that there is democracy in this country and that those who follow me do not go soldiers. Whether I was right or wrong, I can't answer that. Time has shown, but I've been on the streets too. At that moment, who was on the streets, he went there with his heart and with his desire to change something in this country the way he could. That's all I have to say. And with regard to the Special Court, he deals with too serious things. Mr. Dimitrov, thank you for the line. And to you in particular, but I will still say that improving by closing I am not a supporter of this topic and that is how I will remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u113	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Now for the procedure Dessislava Atanasova. Then I wrote for speech Yavor Bojankov, Petar Petrov, Anna Alexandrova, Vasil Stefanov, Alexander Nestorov, Branimir Balachev. And Krum Zarkov recording. Let me tell you something, I'll give you half a break, guys. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u115	No, wait a minute, you have no personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u116	You won't let me, will you? Okay, procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u117	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u118	Mr. President, I pay attention to you when Members of Parliament from the stands state in detail where they have no information regarding what another Member has said, interrupting them. What it is about: colleague Kulenski in his jacket stressed that he is surprised that I have information about everyone, about all pending cases in the Specialized Court. And weird how I got that kind of access. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I have requested official reference from a Bulgarian institution, which is due to me as a Member of the National Assembly. And from this reference to pending proceedings it becomes clear that it is 144 cases, 13 179 volumes of material, defendants.. 886, witnesses.. 7143, property persons.. 1211, three cases in international cooperation, including what the colleague is talking about................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Do you imagine that all these cases will be scattered somewhere unknown where in the country and will be watched after some indefinite period of time? Colleague, get ready. Behind this tribune and behind this hall there is no need to just talk about it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. And now Yavor Bozhankov is speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, after two hours of debate GERB saved us the trouble and said, spat out the pebble, said what the problem was - just don't bother organized crime! Well, it wasn't hard-- there to start. [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u121	Make a note of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u122	That's a quote, wait a minute, that's a quote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u123	But basically, BSP's position is about closing specialized courts, colleagues, because... Mr. Chairman, please calm Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u124	Mr. Bojankov, we're listening. Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u125	In essence, the position of BSP is consistent, not only because it is written in the coalition agreement, not only because we have made such a commitment to our voters. Since its creation, we have objected that the specialization in relation to the subject, not the subject, is infertile. It won't work. In the years GERB built this system and gave career bonuses, travel rules and whatnot. We've fought each time. There is also no surprise that GERB are for this system. They created it, they chose it, they protected it. Why, however, specialized justice was created, which is simple and clear: to fight corruption at the high levels of power, organised crime. Obviously, this goal has not been achieved. After a number of analyses, debates, committee hearings, we have confirmed our position that this did not happen. There are extremely few, and there are almost no convictions against high-level politicians. Organized crime groups aren't what they seem. They often come in as a qualification of a organized group and come out in a completely different way. There are few cases in which people were rolled in their personal correspondence held, crushed, their business and reputation without having the opportunity to defend themselves. There's a lot of cases like this. We've seen what specialized justice does, but mostly we've seen what it doesn't work. And here's the big problem. Often give an example both GERB and the specialized prosecution with Vasil Bozhkov, so I will use this same example. No one believes that hundreds of millions of our taxes are being diverted just like that. Every average intelligent person understands that this without an umbrella from the high levels of power could not have happened. And there's only one to blame again. And this is where specialized justice devolves. It does not reach the high levels of power, even when a guy like Bozhkov breaks down his old buddies, gives them away and speaks to justice. That's what specialized justice doesn't care about. There's one part of it that doesn't exist. It's the big failure. This result was never received. And here is the problem: the essence of the debate between the government and the opposition. If you are on the side of specialized justice, GERB is obviously a very important topic for them. If you are one of those who send messages between Borisov, PR Sevi, Boyko, Goranov and Geshev, you are certainly satisfied with specialized justice. But if you're on the side of those who stole their taxes, you're certainly not happy. And this ruling coalition sided with the people whose taxes were stolen. So, colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u126	On the side of the idiots, they stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u127	Well, Mr. Bikov, please don't be so qualified. [[(Reply from.. Continue ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u128	So, colleagues, our position is categorically in this direction, but we are also setting a goal for Bulgaria so far, and during the functioning of this specialized justice, there is still a country in which the guilty are the underprivileged Greeks, the homeless, the hobos or units of people who on their backs have exported independent sacks from the Automages. It never came to the high levels of power. The great goal we set is for Bulgaria to be a country in which the law applies to all, not specifically to one, and especially to others not to apply. And the first step, important and fundamental, of this reform is the closure of specialised justice, which has failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u129	This isn't reform.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u130	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are there any lines to Yavor Bojankov? No. Mrs. Alexandrova, a line? I won't, okay. Peter Petrov is gone, okay. He's missing order. Anna Alexandrova, for a statement? You're quitting, okay. Branimir Balachev also recorded. Would you like to speak, Mr. Balachev? You don't want to. Vasil Stefanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the House, Dear Minister! As the reasons for the bill are stated: The objectives for which specialized justice was created in Bulgaria were: to achieve effective results against organized crime and corruption practices on the high levels of power. After 11 years, it is apparent that specialized justice has not justified the reasons for its creation. Alas, for the fight against corruption, examples and data are negligible. It's obvious from the reports that this thing is. Accordingly, no positive conclusion can be drawn on the effectiveness of this sector. However, there is enough eloquent information on organised crime or rather the established statistics on organised crime. It is important to point out here that, within pre-trial proceedings, the managing authority is the prosecutor's office. And the assessment of whether a crime has been committed under art. 321 of the Criminal Code, namely: management, organization or participation in an organized criminal group within the meaning of art. 93, p. 20 of the penal code makes her the monitoring prosecutor. Of course, the person responsible for raising and maintaining charges, as well as asking for the imposition of measures for non-violence, is the Special Prosecutor's Office. And here we come up with a few major problems that the current legislation allows. First of all, the Specialized Prosecutor's Office can artificially create statistics on organised crime revealed, which it really isn't. As the monitoring prosecutor to attract three or more persons as indictees to commit crimes under art. 321, without any evidence, evidence of such organised crime. In other words, the monitoring prosecutor may justify his or her family competence through the formal indication of the crime under art. 321, without having evidence of actual coherence between persons, respectively, without being able to prove that an organised criminal group exists. Evidence of this is the data and the large number of cases in which the defendants were justified on their charges of crimes under art. 321 from the first instance court. Here we come to the second major problem in the current framework. The competence of the specialized courts is subject precisely to this assessment of the prosecution regarding the form of complicity of the persons investigated....................................................................................... If it were a mere complicity, these criminal acts would be considered by the common court, not by Specialists. From the data on the large number of acquittal sentences for participation in an organized criminal group, we can make precisely this conclusion that the prosecution in most cases only formally justified its competence, failing, repeating, failed to maintain its prosecution of the OCG in the court. This court is the Special Court, of course, which, due to the existence of such an accusation, was also generically competent to rule on the substance of the dispute. This, in turn, leads to a distortion of data, to an artificial increase in statistics on investigation and detection of organised crime in the country in the face of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office and the Specialized Criminal Court, and in fact the degree of real disclosure is significantly lower. Here I would also like to say something about what colleagues from GERB-SDS said about the dependence of magistrates on the ground. Colleagues, first of all, the Court of Appeal is the Court of Appeal, then the Supreme Court of Cassation. This isn't about local ties. If there are doubts about the dependence of judges and prosecutors on the ground, where are the investigations against them? Do you have the data and you claim that the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council has not done its job in any form? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 411a, al. 1 letter is included judges, prosecutors and investigators. So if there are crimes committed against justice under Section 3 of the Penal Code, do you know who is investigating and where these crimes are being investigated in the Specialized Prosecutor's Office, in the Specialized Criminal Court? So where are the investigations against magistrates? I'd be happy to hear from you. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u132	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. For speech Alexander Nestorov. Here you go, Mr. Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister. Yes, Madam Minister, neither you nor any part of the ruling majority have been able to give any argument that the level of criminal justice, the protection of citizens' rights, access to justice, the protection of legal order as a whole will be increased by this bill. I mean, with the word "reform" so far. And yes, Madam Minister, neither the court nor the prosecution nor the investigation nor the Supreme Judicial Council nor the word organizations support the bill thus presented. And yes, Madam Minister, and right now there are cases in the Sofia City Court that are not being watched because there are no halls available. What are we going to do when these cases go back to this court? What do we do with citizens' access to justice? And yes, Madam Minister, I doubt there are more than two or three people in the ruling majority who have been in the Special Prosecutor's Office's Office or in the Special Prosecutor's Office itself to see how the people who work in these places cannot see their walls of documents and evidence. And yes, Madam Minister, in the Bill in one place there is even a missing removal of the Specialized Court and Prosecutor's Office. And yes, Madam Minister, by the way, the report, which has been mentioned several times today and is waving as a flag by the Prime Minister and of all the And yes, Madam Minister, one of the proposals to cancel texts has actually been tabled by your chairman of the parliamentary group Mr. Hristo Ivanov. And yes, Madam Minister, in fact, in this way the creation of some of the magistrates will not want to become members of the Supreme Judicial Council of the parliamentary quota. In the situation so created, Madam Minister, I see only one option: the withdrawal of the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u134	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Are there any lines for Alexander Nestorov? There are no lines. Now for speech Petar Petrov and then Krum Zarkov. I'm also recording Hristo Ivanov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in my speech I will focus on this part of the Bill concerning the closure of the Special Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office. Unfortunately, I was left with the feeling, and also in the majority of the Bulgarian society, that for the period when this special justice was present, there were no satisfactory results in the fight against organised crime. The feeling remained that the activities carried out by the Special Justice Office did not justify those objectives, with the proclamation of which it was created. First of all, in relation to the activities of the Special Prosecutor's Office. I remember only a few weeks ago the minister here from this tribune is reading us statistics that there are convictions in respect of 96% of the indictments of the ordinary courts. Unfortunately, however, there is a serious disproportion and imbalance in the convictions regarding the indictments of the Special Prosecutor's Office. For the eight-year period 2012 - 2020, as stated in the statistics on reasons, the conviction rate is around 50, for 2020 is around 66%. That is, we have, on the one hand, a large number of convictions regarding indictments by the prosecution in the ordinary courts and, on the other, between 40 and 50% justified when charged by the Special Prosecutor's Office in court. This high percentage of justified persons subsequently leads to judgmental decisions under the Law on State Responsibility for Damage and also to judgmental decisions in the European Court of Human Rights against the Republic of Bulgaria. All these benefits, which amount to an average of 20 thousand. lv. And 20,000. When it comes to the European Court of Human Rights, we pay all of us Bulgarian taxpayers, and the Special Prosecutor's Office bears absolutely no responsibility for its actions and for its acts when declared unlawful by the Bulgarian Court. Next, with regard to the activities of the Special Prosecutor's Office, I cannot fail to mention here in plenary the fact that, specifically for 2021, because I have been familiar with the Special Prosecutor's report, the number and percentage of the indictments returned due to substantial procedural violations by the Prosecutor's Office, the returned by the Special Court are 52 out of 194 indictments filed, that is, a quarter. And in general, back in time for the eight-year period, this percentage is about 20. So, a quarter or a fifth of the indictments filed by the Special Prosecutor's Office were found by the court to be vicious, returned to the pre-trial phase for further investigation?! This, as a final result, re-engages the period of prosecution and, in the case of the high rate of acquittal, subsequently leads to a higher amount of compensation, because the amount of compensation for moral damages is also determined by the duration of the prosecution against the accused and a convicted person. And we pay them back, and yet no one carries the Special Prosecutor's office's responsibility for it. Third, regarding the activities of the Special Prosecutor's Office. If you have read the reasons for the bill, you have seen for sure that the largest number of cases these are cases at the request of the Special Prosecutor's Office for Authorisation and for the use of special intelligence funds under art. 12 and the next of the SRS Act. Even if we are solidarity with Judge Panayotova's statement in the Legal Commission that the refusals by the Special Court were more than the approvals for the use of these CRCs, by seeing the high number of such cases, which for 2021 are more than 2,300, for 2020 and back in the years are about three thousand, taking again into account the excessive number of acquittal sentences, we should conclude that some of these requests for the use of the SRS are either unlawful or unnecessary or unnecessary. The fourth reason with regard to the activities of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office is again the high number of cases that have been dealt with and requested by the Prosecutor's Office for search, search and seizure. They also play their serious role subsequently when the high number of justified persons seeks compensation against actions of the Special Prosecutor's Office for which it is not responsible in any way thereafter. With regard to the activities of specialised courts. Although the President of the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court in the Commission said that there are objective assessments of successful fight against organised crime, I am aware of two accidental inquiries by the Supreme Court of Cassation, the latter was 2018 in the notorious case of Ivancheva and Petrova, in which this accidental check of legality, which lasted only six days, found that there were violations. And then the question arose, and the people who are currently watching and listening to us are asking: well, why is it possible to carry out such an accident check in a case of public interest that is not so public interest? And if they were done, should I not now use the heretic word "massive," but more regular such accidental random checks, would they detect violations, other violations of criminal specialized law, not say again at the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court? I think you can answer that question yourself! All of this creates the feeling in the Bulgarian public and in the Bulgarian citizens that specialized criminal justice is used to investigate selective persons - businessmen, politicians, and to apply selective and arbitrary special intelligence means against them. I have repeatedly said that even against us we are now 11 MPs from the Party ARCHIVE, who have been tapped by the Prosecutor's Office, I think that my colleague Kulinski also mentioned that protesters have also been tapped. I heard there was no data on the right side of the room. There's data. Any one of us who wishes can visit the Secret Office and get acquainted with them, with the specific data. Unfortunately, however, in the past, the National Assembly has not been decided on this case since there has been no quorum. The more familiar will remember which ones have not provided a quorum. We'll raise that question again. I hope, colleague Kulenski, that this time you will support us to investigate this story to the end with the listening protesters and the relevant officials who have requested these permissions and who have given them unjustified under art. 95 of the Penal Code of Criminals can finally receive, if not sanction, at least one declaration from the National Assembly, something that has not been made in the past National Assembly. Let's hope we do it now. Next, colleagues, I would like to say that specialized justice is not effective just because it is specialized justice. And what the importers are doing with this bill, namely to move the specialists from one building to another, we cannot describe it as, I quote, an important step towards judicial reform. Just because you will move a specialty member from the streets of Cherkovna. On Vitosha Boulevard, does not mean that if he did not eventually comply with the law of Cherkovna Street, he will now respect it on Vitosha Boulevard, and that if there were conditions for him to be corrupted there, now he is here, moving him to the City Court or the City Prosecutor's Office, he will no longer be corrupted this magistrate. The reason for the inefficiency of special criminal justice lies mainly in the procedures laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the special laws, such as the Special Intelligence Act, and in the limitation periods under the Criminal Code. I'm just going to give an example here. In the same report for 2021 of the Specialized Criminal Court, it appears that a case has been dismissed on the basis of the expiry of the absolute limitation period for criminal prosecution. Shall I tell you what will happen to another symbolic case that you mentioned today, namely the bankruptcy case of CCB and the missing 3 billion? I'm glad you listened to my statement on the Legal Commission. Should I tell you what will happen to him and what will be the end of him when you move him from the City Court to Cherkovna, or can you tie him up for two and two? So, colleagues from the ruling coalition, this cannot be a judicial reform. What's different from what you're doing right now, you know what it is? What will be different will be the clerks, the court secretaries and the subpoenas, because on the statements in the Commission, as far as I understand, only two magistrates in the Special Court do not meet the criteria for reassignment set out in the Bill. I don't want to say anything against them. Unfortunately, in the motives I saw a glimpse of the figures of the specialists, but we should not generalize.. there are quite large professionals there. I say that like a guy who works there. We shouldn't be staring at their figure and saying, because they're law enforcement at the Special Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office, so they're working inefficiently and viciously by shutting them down and reassigning them to the respective district courts, they'll suddenly start working more effectively. That's not the problem. The problem is the investigative procedures. Even the minister five or six days ago mentioned that after a conversation with Laura Koveshi, they will make changes to the Penal Code to allow, I quote: a more effective investigation and punishment regarding the draining of European funds. I would like to point out that I would ask to extend the group's time, if there is such an opportunity...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u136	Mr. Petrov, it's expired.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u137	Changes are necessary not in the Penal Code, but in the Code of Criminal Procedure, because there are procedures for the investigation. If we just shut down the Special Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office, we don't do anything, honourable Members. Reform is called when we submit a proposal to create effective control over the Attorney General, which we will consider this afternoon in the Legal Commission and against which you, colleagues of the ruling coalition, will vote against. At the same time, the prime minister, whom you have chosen, says, quote: "There is absolute sabotage by the prosecution, led by Ivan Geshev. Yet, colleagues, this afternoon you will vote against our proposal to create an opportunity to control the Attorney General! What's with all the confusion?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u138	The weather, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u139	Is this the judicial reform? The only thing you're going to do is move this part of the public-confidenced criminal justice from one ripped pocket to the other! That'll be it. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u140	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to Peter Petrov? I can't see. Krum Zarkov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There are not many laws that have been considered at first reading three times that have gone through so much discussion, through so much passion. With that, I'll respond to the colleague who was here before me. It is not just moving from one to the other pocket something far more important, it also shows the fact that the issue of closing specialized courts as part of judicial reform is one of the reasons for being able to exist a diverse ideological coalition, as well as the passion and perseverance with which this court defends itself against the opposition and other environments. Why is it really important, honourable Members? The specialized court and prosecution, working on the same procedural and material law as all common courts, should be just an instrument for the more effective implementation of our criminal policy. But they've become something else. I will not go back to the various topics that have already been discussed. They have become a symbol of the way power is exercised in Bulgaria, and the power in its most brutal form has become a symbol of the repressive power, the repressive apparatus of the state. Therefore their closure was inevitable, it became inevitable over the years, but let us remember what led to their discovery. As early as 2011, when they were created for a particular purpose, there were many criticisms on this issue, the creation of such an institution. In 2017, when any idea of specialization was rejected with the new powers and competences it received, from there it was the actual closure of the idea of specialization within the meaning of investigation and more effective persecution of organised criminal groups! There, at that moment. I allow myself from this tribune to remind you that here we have warned you about the then importers about the inevitable development of events that have even developed more headstrong, not to say a scary way from there. We have been accused several times that this is a political decision. Yeah, it's a political decision. How to construct the judiciary is a political decision, this cannot be an accusation. But to prove to you that our political decision has not only been made on a Voluntarian principle, I would like to respond to some of the criticisms I have heard in the Legal Commission and here in the Chamber. The opposition has the right to raise them, and the government must respond and develop them. Several legal aspects have been raised that are worth taking into account. One is the fate of magistrates working in specialized courts. The text is improved in relation to the previous version, Madam Minister. It was improved after the public consultation text was published, the relevant comments were received and you reflected them. It was strange to me that this was also the subject of criticism. See, this law is not the same as the one uploaded for public discussion. That's the logic of public discussion, that's why it's done! Not just to formally meet the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, but to hear and improve! Now, since we have spoken a little bit today essentially, let the people who are listening to us and interested know that a order has been put in place in which the relevant specialized magistrates will state their desire where to be reassigned and criteria for the SJC to assess, in case there are more applications for a revealed position. Of course, and maybe that's what the point of our work is from now on, there are other tracks that could be explored. Some of them heard, a working group should examine them, but what seems absolutely obvious to me is that importers and the majority are making a visible effort, contrary to many of the criticisms we have heard, to facilitate this transition. Professional, but also purely life-like, sometimes aspects of people placed in a situation have to change their jobs. I very much hope that this is one of the reasons why I have taken the floor from these people not to mislead them and that this dialogue will develop, but not to be shifted by boycotts, rejections, deliberate slowing down of affairs and other things that we have also heard. In any case, in the application of the text and in the resolution of the practical problems of reassignment, a very natural role will be played by not only the legislator, but also the judicial authority of the Supreme Judicial Council. An open defender of specialized justice, he will now have the opportunity to take care of the people who worked in it. I hope they do, and our job is to make the text as clear as possible. Another criticism of the legal aspect that has been heard is that of pending proceedings. This issue is particularly important, not least because in previous discussions, and now there have been accusations that everything is being done almost to end or delay the cases on which the Special Court is working. It is no coincidence and this is the topic which was the longest subject of attention in the Ministry of Justice, as far as I am aware, in recent months, and also by the first law, which was introduced before two National Assemblys. Let us make it clear that what is being proposed now seems reasonable and logical. There is a division of cases in relation to the stage at which they are located. Those under which an administrative hearing was held shall be brought to justice by the Sofia City Court. According to the principle which has been referred to here several times for the inalienability of the Court of Justice, the same judges will be considered as if necessary, i.e. if they are not permanently appointed to this court, they will be posted until the end, until the reasons of the sentence have been announced. Cases in which an officer's hearing has not been held shall be sent by jurisdiction of the courts concerned as provided for in the general procedure. I have arranged in the same way something that has not been done before and is now also improved is also the question of the jury. That is to say, it is considered contrary to what you say and proposed a transition to the maximum extent to ensure that, where it is finally decided that the conditions for the hearing are in place in a court phase, because this is precisely the function of the hearing, the case continues without delay in its further course. Naturally, I think it has been said several times: closing this institution is not an easy job at all. I think the approach they've taken proves it, too. There are many hypotheses and various options where problems may arise. These hypotheses have already been discussed. I hope they will continue to be discussed to the extent that they really are closed to the maximum. All these arguments, which, you see, are pointed out here that almost nothing has been done and the Urbuleska is acting, only and only to close one thing, cannot hide the big question. It is, I repeat, of a political nature: does our country need specialized criminal justice in this version? Here the opposition's arguments are in several directions, which I would like to respond to for two minutes. First of all, it says: "Without the Specialized Court, the organized criminal groups cannot be judged effectively. " - By the way, I do not mention the prosecution and persecution of high-level corruption, as it is acknowledged that it did not work. The colleagues themselves put in bills that bring back the defendants as they were before. In other words, there is a recognition of whether there is a lack of time, whether there is a lack of opportunity, but we have heard from everyone that corruption will not be effectively persecuted on this road at the high levels of power. To organized crime groups. It is said: "There can be no trial of large bandits in small settlements. " In essence, this is the argument that led to the creation of these courts. It should not be rejected lightly because, unfortunately, the realities in our country are what they are, but it cannot be accepted just as they are. First, honourable Members, when a criminal, head of an organized crime group, influences a court of law in its own case, this means that it can influence in all cases! When we find this from this tribune and realize that this is a problem, we must take action for it! The creation of this specialized court proved ineffective! Therefore, if a problem arises with regard to freedom and independence, which the district courts have, this problem needs to be dealt with differently. He sits on the agenda, by the way, sits on the agenda with regard to every single administrative authority that is put in fact dependent on someone who is very rich, very scary and so on, in many places in our country. The other argument was that specialization for these cases was required to be effectively prosecuted. I'll tell you two things here. Firstly, from its very beginning, since the creation of this court in 2011, this specialization has not been very well done. You know, the original idea was that the conviction would be a crime under art. 321 The organized criminal group, as well as the crimes committed by order or in the execution of a decision of such a criminal group. The point is that these crimes committed by commission or in execution are the most diverse. They may be against the person, against the property, against the farm. That is, specialization in a narrow sense is very difficult to find. They're very diverse tracks that are being worked on. I understand that you may need such specialization because these attacks are characterized by high complexity, you mentioned it, conspiracy, hard to prove, require the use of special means of intelligence. But it's about specialization in the investigation, discovery and collection of fit evidence! You don't need a Specialized Court. Here, in fact, and in my opinion, the wrong reading of the European Commission's recommendations on this issue. The European Commission has, on several occasions, actually recommended specialization because of greater efficiency, but not the creation of such a structure. Naturally, it does not oppose it, and it is our internal question, as I have said several times, but that specialization that is being spoken of is not at all what happened. When in 2017, this court was entrusted with competence intutuit personae and later with that of the European Prosecutor's Office, it was then understood that no specialization in the investigation of an organised criminal group was involved, but it was a court that liked power and prosecutors. Why did you like it? And here the analysis is very interesting, I'll just mention something that hasn't been said so far. One, our colleagues from "We go on The Change" said several times about the special intelligence funds, but the measures for non-violence there show a clear difference in the action of this court against other courts. When, out of the few proceedings that have reached judgment or judgment in the end, the Supreme Court of Cassation, we can say that it fits into the common framework, but there is no entry under the deviant measures. And because very often there is talk of a bat, which is a bat and what is not, and naturally, each according to his political bias likes one, tells her a bat, or another when in power when in opposition. I will offer you the following, not scientific, but my definition of when an organ becomes a bat when in practice its provisional measures are more important than permanent ones. This is also the case with KPCONPI, apropo when collateral is scary, not the withdrawal, when the detention is scary, not the sentence. The European Commission has repeatedly spoken, even had a prosecutor who had gathered all our reports, gave them to the Commission. Not that we haven't discussed them before, but this cooperation mechanism hasn't fallen, and verification, and it hasn't fallen for one simple reason. It hasn't fallen because no matter how much it recommends the European Commission and the European Parliament because of the fulfilment of some technical criteria, it has no political agreement and understanding that Bulgaria has dealt with the problem of corruption. There's no such understanding, because she hasn't yet. As a matter of fact, what we're doing for the organized crime group, when we say it's also an argument that I shouldn't pass that this court has broken the organized crime group, it's gone because... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ...because you see, there are no more black SUVs that we've been used to since the Mutren times. I have another reference to the organized crime group and organized crime from Bulgaria did not disappear, they merged with power, dressed in the suit of power, stopped walking in black jeeps with patches, but started walking in black jeeps with business plates. And this Specialized Court slept through it on purpose or without wanting to, it doesn't matter, it has to be closed. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria........................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u142	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Replices to Krum Zarkov? Danny Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u143	Dear Mr. Zarkov, I am making a reply to you, as your speech and, above all, the arguments were directed at me in connection with mine in the Legal Commission, and also here today. I'm glad I heard some more expert, closer to expert speaking today in this room. I am also glad that you have admitted that this is not really a judicial reform. You can call it anything but judicial reform. Judicial reform is to improve something and make it work better than it is now, for the benefit of society. There's no such thing, and you admitted it. Apart from that, Mr. Zarkov, you say the fate of the magistrates. You're very wrong. I have not once said about the fate of the magistrates, because the magistrates are inalienable, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is important the fate of the cases, the hundreds of cases in which there are hundreds of defendants who can be acquainted with what serious crimes are involved, without, after all, denigrating the compositions in which these cases are being conducted. Thus written the provision, the method of selection and reassignment of judges, Madam Minister, and to you, between first and second reading, to analyse this text very, very carefully, because you will be responsible whether these cases will really continue or start again. You're creating a whole new reassignment procedure. No magistrate can be obliged to apply for where the positions across the country have been opened after he has won a contest and has been appointed here. Don't play with the fate of these heavy deeds! Absolutely, Mr. Zarkov, as a lawyer, look at the § 41 in question. 5 in relation to reassignment, because if they do not submit applications, they cannot be fired or appointed. There will be a number of appeals to the SJC and the cases, heavy cases, will remain on logs. And I say again, they're threatened by the expiration of statute of limitations. I speak purely expertly, but the result will be to the detriment of society and the only ones who will win are these... is organized crime in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u144	The weather, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u145	That is why my request is to clarify these texts and to take all measures regarding the fate of pending cases and yet to review the arrangements for organised crime, because you yourself mentioned and confirmed, and agreed with local dependencies, especially in small areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u146	Yeah, thanks, too. Is there another line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u147	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear Mrs. Kanazireva, I was actually addressing you because you were expressing your group's arguments. I respect those arguments, I'm trying to answer them. That's what I'll do with your line. With regard to pending cases, I think that in his statement and in the Law it is quite clearly written, so I will not return to them. The time limit for your concerns seems to be undue in view of the long term limitation periods that are available for this type of crime. I bothered to look at them after you expressed that concern. The shortest term we're talking about is 10 years, most of them are 15, I don't think there's such a serious risk. Regarding the fate of magistrates and the fate of deeds. For the fate of the magistrates, § 41 was actually the subject of a very careful analysis and I say it again, in my opinion, an improvement. Unlike before, there are indeed criteria on which the relevant College of the SJC to assess who should be reassigned if there are more applications, because everything is done so that as far as possible the requests of the magistrates can be met. This is not a selection and I will prove to you, Mrs. Kanazireva, with the following criteria which have been written are to a large extent the criteria which the Supreme Judicial Council itself adopted in 2013 in relation to the application of art. 194 of the Judicial Law, which we are now talking about. These are the criteria with which they have worked up to now "there are some additional ones, can be looked at once again, but it cannot be said that this is a selection, not one that was conceived in the original version of the text. Regarding whether this is reform or not. Well, reform is a big enough change to call it reform. Why is it important that I return again? Mrs. Kanazireva, when you create a non-specialized case, but a parallel order, you create competition for a court of law that is inadmissible in the rule of law, and this has happened, this has been the case for the whole system of magistrates. With all due respect, this cannot continue and cannot be healed and the other system cannot be healed when there is a gap in which someone chooses a vessel that is more comfortable with it. When this person is the repressive apparatus of our country, it becomes dangerous. Bulgaria needs justice! It doesn't have to be specialized! It must be what it is, what it is in the countries we strive for and which we must mostly reach. This experiment, with this special court, especially from 2017 onwards, proved unsuccessful. We don't have to persist, it's time to change it. [[(Private applause by..) We continue the Change..........................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u148	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Hristo Ivanov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This discussion is being held once again here, in this Chamber, and in the Commission. Most things we've heard, said, repeated, back and forth. By the way, a lot of good things have been said by our colleagues from "We continue the Change" and Mr. Zarkov. Members of the opposition made important remarks regarding the fine setting of what we are about to do, and what is, of course, stress for the justice system, because it is under duress, an invasive procedure. In this sense, I would like to say at the beginning, and this is evident from the history of this bill, as it has been noted that we between the two readings, with absolute seriousness and awareness that the fate of the magistrates is important, I would not leave it aside at all, because how magistrates are treated, is a very important message to their career expectations of their colleagues and in the future and to the affairs. In this sense, there will be another discussion, deep on every argument. Right to the opposition, of course, any argument there is, any potential risk of bringing it to apocalyptic proportions. No, this isn't about you specifically, so the debate in these walls is going on, that's normal. Let us say here that I am sure that all efforts of this extremely complex procedure to be brought to a position to be maximum sparing and maximum non-creating problems, neither career nor from the point of view of cases, will be made. This court was set up as a political court. His story, by the way, is very interesting about his political history, because it has exactly political history. I'm not going back to it now, it starts as the creation of the DANS starts at the same time with a consulting firm that has, by the way, a very interesting portfolio from places where you consult Africa, South America and so on. This will be discussed some other time in another place. It was created as a political court, first of all, with intent and as part of one, by talking about what is the judicial reform of a long tradition of many governments, and this is not just about previous rulers, to do... to have judicial reform, to plan things that are not exactly what needs to be done, but to have measures. Thus, there was an observation in the European Commission that there are always steps in Bulgaria, but there is no progress. We have created three or four different bodies related to the conflict of interest - different governments, which announced that we will now create a new body, and this time it will work and so on. And we have this exercise ahead of us, by the way, and I'm saying it with full awareness of the political risks he has in front of him, to go in all directions. This court was created with a clear political intention to escape the issue of the need to reform the prosecution so that it can be effective, to be able to investigate corruption, to be able to effectively investigate local dependencies, because if there is a judge, prosecutor, mayor or anything that succumbs to addictions, it is the prosecution's job and it has to do it. It is not only the prosecution, of course, about a very wide range of bodies and measures. Legal justice in the interest of truth and repression is the last resort in this palette. But anyway, when the Specialized Court was conceived, it was also designed in this tradition, things that seem decisive, big, but somehow allow us to change the subject and not look at the root of things, and that is that the master of pre-trial proceedings, of the institution, which monopolistically depends on effective investigations and accusations regarding corruption, is Bulgaria's big problem, is not reformed and there is no political will for the reform of the prosecution. Later he gained additional political coloration because it turned out to be the answer to that great political dilemma: And it is here that what has been said about the problem of the detention measures, which there is obviously a scary staggering reality there. Is there to be a specialization, or should there not be one? In the prosecution, the authorities of pre-trial proceedings are important to have a specialization. In court, specialization is a double-edged knife. It easily enters some risk zones to become exceptional justice. Of course, you will say: we have text, we have a series of decisions of the Constitutional Court, very nice, including Judge Nenkov wrote on them, but unfortunately, these solutions are focused only on the strictly formal part of the issue, which, of course, is leading and very important. But I do remember a very experienced judge who said the court was like the Philharmonic. In addition to what is written in the scores, there are an awful lot of cultural accumulations, there is an extremely intangible part, a spirit, a collective spirit, a rumor that is being brought up and cultivated together in a good Philharmonic. It is a civilizational achievement beyond just what is recorded in the scores, and the court is in the same way a very subtle instrument. And from this point of view, it is always traditional to approach very carefully and with great attention when it comes to creating separate courts separatized. There are systems that even say that architecturally should not be punitive by civil judges, so that there is not that moment when mentally one of them goes into one direction, they develop, say, an indictment bias and this becomes a problem. There's psychology in this whole thing, not just norms. This court was set up with a clear application, a manifest intention to be a political court, was completed under the sign of doubt by the candidates themselves. You remember that there were not enough candidates even when the competitions started because everyone knew that they were taking the risk of going to a political court that could come to this point. In 2011, when the first draft laws on this matter were adopted and discussed, and then corruption was part of it, it then dropped out, by the way, it is also a clear sign that it was conceived as a political court. Everyone knew that it was created as a political order and would have one, or there is such a serious risk of having such a fate. Is this judicial reform a lot, so to speak, we are discussing this issue. I fully agree that this is not judicial reform in the sense that it must run out of it. Judicial reform is a huge complex of many different measures - legislative, organizational, financial, educational and so on. That is why there is a comprehensive concept, a strategy for judicial reform, which unites them all, but this strategy is, of necessity, broken down into separate acts. The importance of what we are doing now, although it does not create something new, as you said, and reform is only when we create something new, is to remove something that creates conditions for doubting whether justice in Bulgaria is completely impartial and equal for everyone. This is the objective of judicial reform.. a leading goal. To have justice that we can make sure is one for all. The elimination of structural prerequisites for such doubts, when we analyse the public reactions of everyone, of the detention policy or of the practice of detentions that we saw there, gives a clear answer to the public need to ensure that in Bulgaria justice will be one for all, to take this step and this is a very important element of judicial reform. And you know, when I looked at the latest events that are absolutely fair are subjected to media and political analysis and looking at the extent to which it is precisely about equal application of the law, one for all, absolutely every time this thing should be done and there should be a clear argumentation. I said to myself, "Thank God, we will close this court because I want to know that the common courts, the common order will apply to everyone in the same way. And I think that this is a good goal for us to work for, to improve the bill as much as we can between first and second readings, but to make sure that a political court disappears and we will all benefit from the benefits of common justice, as we have it, with all the need to improve it. And in this sense, this is a good step, which I hope you will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u150	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A line from Thomas Bikova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I welcome your balanced speech on this issue, and if it were not for the current context, perhaps it would also be a good basis for a meaningful debate with arguments. However, the context is such that everything you say does not matter. First of all, because you as part of this government clearly have no power to stop anything. You have not been asked about this arrest, which you mentioned in passing, which is illegal in all its stages, nor have you been asked, nor have you had the opportunity to say anything. So when you now say how for everyone we will make sure that there is a fair trial, justice and so on, we cannot trust you. You are simply unable to guarantee anything in this majority. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u152	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall! Your time is up, Mr. Bikov, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u153	Yeah, I'm done with one sentence, and that's what it's gonna be. There will be no reform in this Parliament, because in order for there to be reform, and serious, there should be consensus. There will be no consensus in this parliament! I'm telling you this on behalf of the biggest opposition political force. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u154	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Is there a second line to Hristo Ivanov? I won't. Is there gonna be an asshole? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u155	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Bikov, the fact is that no one has asked me about this arrest, and thank God. [[Applause from DB]] Because it's not a politician's job to rule on arrest or not, if you're talking about me. I am not in the executive power, I am in the legislative power, and from this point of view, I readily acknowledge the fact that no one has asked me, and it is very good that no one has asked me. What we can do depends on each and every one of us. And besides, having a political struggle around one case or another, we still have a responsibility to our constituents to do what needs to be done. If we believe that there should be other judicial elements of the judicial reform in Bulgaria, vote for them and then we will have power. We have this power that the voters have given us. We do with it what we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. [[Relations from the National Representative Hamid Hamid.]] Any other speeches? I can't see. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Within a few days, both in the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, we are debating whether it is necessary and how the specialized court and prosecution should be closed, whether it is necessary to cancel the permitted, regulated career bonuses for the members of the Supreme Judicial Council and for the inspectors of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council. This is neither a hasty debate nor an angro debate. I cannot accept the criticism that professional arguments have not been heard. On the contrary, as has been repeatedly said, this bill has been long discussed in society, many professional opinions have been expressed. Each professional argument has been discussed and some of them have been accepted, even within the framework of the debate in the Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs, some of the professionals who had expressed these opinions acknowledged this. However, both in the course of the debate in the Legal Committee and in the course of this debate, further opinions have been expressed and, as I have said, we are ready to discuss them, hear the arguments and improve the texts. So to me this is proof that professional arguments are being heard. We have heard an argument that the competence of the specialized court and prosecutor's office on the fight against high-level corruption has been introduced, this competence has been settled in 2017 and five years later there is no time for effective sentences. I ask the question: where are the investigations, where are the charges, where are the first instance sentences. Didn't five years come to that? Assuming that five years is a normal term, an uncritical deadline for conducting an investigation into a high-level corruption crime and bringing it to court, this is a rather disturbing thesis. Yes, the fight against corruption is not just about regulating who the competent court is to deal with these accusations, who the competent prosecutor is to investigate these crimes. I would agree here that in order to have an effective fight against corruption, we need a reform of the prosecution. That is why the Ministry of Justice is currently working on a bill to establish guarantees for an effective investigation and demand for responsibility when the Attorney General committed crimes. Because, let us not delude ourselves, under a strictly pyramid structure, such as the Prosecutor's Office in Bulgaria, without an effective mechanism for seeking responsibility at the top of the pyramid in the other units we can hardly achieve any other outcome than the present one. We have heard concerns quite justified in what will happen to pending cases, at the moment with pending cases, whose evidence is tens of volumes, thousands of pages, hundreds of accusations, hundreds of defendants, hundreds of witnesses, hundreds of individuals. This issue has also been raised in the course of the previous discussions of the Bill, which is why we have examined it very carefully. This bill is distinguished. He very clearly says that the Sofia City Court, respectively the Sofia Court of Appeal, will be the successors of the Special Court and the Special Court of Appeal on assets and liabilities, i.e. the building will be maintained, the cases will be seen in this building, respectively the volumes of the cases of the pending... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] The current building, we are talking about the current building of the Special Court and the Special Court of Appeal, will be preserved, the cases will be watched there, the volumes will not move from one to another building. In this way, the court officials will be secured, as we talked about, and the jury. I come to the question of magistrates. The texts are very carefully developed to ensure clear application of the general order under art. 194 of the Law on the Judiciary, so as to be as smooth as possible, without violating the jurisdiction of the Supreme Judicial Council, that the magistrates be reappointed. Mrs. Kanazireva, you set Vidin and Montana as an example as courts with low workload. It is precisely the criterion that the Supreme Judicial Council must respect the workload of the criminal wards in the relevant courts in the country in order to discover the new numbers is... [[Noise and lines by MP Vladislav Panev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u158	Mr. Panev, you're a little in the way of...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u159	...a guarantee for the fact that the numbers will not be found in the low-loaded, small-loaded courts, so that the judges in the unloaded courts will not be reassigned, on the contrary, they will cover the work there, there to be found numbers where the work is more. I believe the Supreme Judicial Council will do an adequate analysis and find numbers where necessary. I declare, yes, if the regulations are not clear in the field, if the regulations are such that they violate the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria or create a danger to that, or are contrary to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, between first and second reading we will hold debates and comply with them. I think the entire history of this bill, and the work of the Ministry of Justice in recent months, shows that we have heard the arguments, discussed them and are ready to comply fully. A question was raised as to whether we were creating a new specialized court, namely a special court in the face of the Sofia City Court. I reopened, I recalled § 55 of this bill and it states that the Sofia City Court's first instance cases of crimes of general nature committed by judges, prosecutors and investigators, by other persons with immunity, by the members of the Council of Ministers, as well as the cases of crimes under Chapter I of the Criminal Code, unless the Specific Rules of Chapter 31 apply, and that the Sofia City Court is sued by the cases of jurisdiction of the European Prosecutor's Office. So the text is quite narrow, clear, but again I declare readiness if there are concerns, questions, ambiguities, between first and second reading to remove them. I have heard a lot of criticism about the fact that the current bill does not constitute judicial reform. During the debate in the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, I agreed that yes, this bill does not limit the vision of the ruling majority for judicial reform. Of course, we need to talk about faster justice, and faster justice means not only faster justice, but a faster investigation. Agree that we cannot accept as a society pre-trial proceedings to take years, years, years for years and accept that 5, 6, 7, 8 years of investigation is acceptable. The Justice Ministry, I can assure you, is working on specific legislative initiatives to ensure speed in the process, and I am convinced that in the coming months we will be able to discuss them very thoroughly in this Chamber. Why do we think this is an important step in judicial reform, and many arguments have been heard about this? Because this is a first step, an important step in our homeland to actually have one law for everyone. I hope that you will support the bill presented at first reading and again state my willingness to participate in the debate between first and second readings to improve the regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u160	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please take your seats. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 47-202-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022. For the first vote. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u162	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u164	Pavel Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u165	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u166	Thank you. Vote 204 MPs and 3 online " 207" total: 132 and 2 online " 134," against 72 and 1 online "73," no abstentions. The motion is accepted. For an explanation of negative vote sandar Nenkov, Branimir Balachev and Anna Alexandrova. All three of them haven't spoken. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, Madam Minister, I voted against this bill and I will explain why. If you, by the ruling majority, really wanted to make judicial reform, yes, we accept that you had the political decision to close down these special courts and the 45th National Assembly and the 46th National Assembly, you tried just like that, by the way, to do so. You didn't make it. Now you've made it. But if, colleagues, you really wanted to make a real judicial reform, you had to start somewhere else. You initiated the creation of, for example, a Commission dealing with constitutional changes. You should have started from there, from the frame. And you actually said in your speeches the following: "We are now, yes, this is not a judicial reform, only we are here now removing these courts, courts and prosecutions, and then we will think about it. " - Let me tell you, colleagues, this is a bit like the arrests of the day before. First we arrest them, then we look for evidence. That's pretty much the analogy. I say again, I understand that you have this political desire to do so, but my colleague Ivanov was right that you will now bear the political responsibility. I am convinced, and you will one day realize that you have made a mistake and that none of the things that have justified the adoption of this law, that there is hardly any equality of people, that there is more justice, that there is a faster trial, that none of these things, colleagues, will be realized and that you will already have that responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u168	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Balachev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u169	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! I voted against it because my deep inner conviction is that what you are doing as the so-called first step by you is not reform. Because a reform, even more so in such a serious system in which all Bulgarian citizens rely on a fair trial, starts not from the middle of the Law on the Judiciary, but from its beginning. I personally am very worried, and I suppose all lawyers are worried about the fact that more than one year, for example, the Supreme Judicial Council is not fully qualified. You didn't say anything, and you had to start there, in my opinion, to have this Supreme Judicial Council, both this and the next, legitimacy, this thing had to start from how, in what way, which people and how to be elected, to choose the main body of this judicial system. This thing's out of your hands. What you are actually proposing is in three points: the first point is to remove specialized justice, because according to colleague Kulinski, if I am not mistaken, the name or the face of this colleague, you believe that this was a bat of GERB. Yes, but not because GERB is not in power and has no way of waving a bat. You are waving the bats in the form not yet of the Special Court, but in the form of the Ministry of Interior and Mr. Rashkov as Minister. Your second component was: because this Supreme Judicial Council doesn't like you, let's not touch the career bonuses, let's put them back as much as they were. But I will remind you, dear Minister, that in the Supreme Judicial Council, according to a member, I think it was 38, if memory serves, the best magistrates are chosen. And you tell the best magistrates that after five years of work at the Supreme Judicial Council they will have to go back there, to a lower position than they were at the moment. And your third pillar in your so-called judicial reform and your first step is that the Attorney General must be replaced. I think in all three parts you are inconclusive. It's a vendetta, it's a political feud, in your opinion, with people who have had or defend any interests of a particular political force that is not true. In my opinion, this first step is, first, incorrect, and second, I am very interested in which step will be the second and third. And I have noted here: if your second step is to change the Constitution and the Penal Procedure Code to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to stand, to hold, to take action, to press charges, to thank you for such a reform. Or maybe you're ready to do jobs that require special higher education...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u170	The weather, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u171	I'm done! ...let's do it basically, and that's how we're gonna solve this. However, your time is short, so if you are doing such reforms in quotes, hurry, because both Kiril Petkov and the rest of the time is over. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u172	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Yours ended about a minute and a half ago. I understand that you did not have the opportunity to speak within the discussion, but still to observe the restrictions.................. of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u173	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, honourable Minister, honourable Members, I voted against it in the first place because I believe that this bill will reflect directly on the course of the cases which, under the law, should continue to be dealt with. It is not possible for a magistrate of unclear status to continue handling cases. Secondly, I believe that this change shows the attempt to remove specific magistrates from their cases. The permanentity of the formation of the Court shall not be guaranteed in the intended procedure of reassignment of the Judges. By the way, here I think it's broken art. 6 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, guaranteeing the right of citizens to a trial within a reasonable period of time, as consideration of cases will be blocked. Next, I voted against because I believe that the destruction of the current centralised model in organised crime cases will have a direct impact on their effectiveness and will restore a long-abandoned model that has proven its inability. Instead of developing the achieved and providing an environment for the promotion of civil society, the interests of a limited range of individuals threatened by specialised justice will be met. Thus, through the legislative amendment you are making right now, your political objectives will be achieved and you will have a political impact on the independent judiciary, which I believe is your goal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. For the procedure. sandrey Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal regarding the term under art. 79 Given the possibility to give all interested Members of the National Assembly to propose that this period be extended from 7 to 12 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u176	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on Andrei Mihailov's procedural proposal to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings from 7 to 12 days. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u178	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u179	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u180	Pavel Christov? Vote 128 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 130: for 126 in the Chamber and 2 online " 128," not against, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The period shall be extended to 12 days. With this, we have exhausted item one of the agenda of the day. Thank you, Madam Secretary. Moving on to point two: PROJECTS OF RESPONSIBILITY DECISIONS. Two draft decisions have been made. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva. Mr. Letifov, please come in for a procedure. After that, Mrs. Vassileva has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I ask you to put order in the Chamber, because I see that half of my colleagues are walking around with water, juice, coffee, glass of transparent liquid, which I hope is not fiery. Let us respect the work of the people's representation and plenary. Please bring order to the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u182	Colleagues, please limit ourselves to mineral water within the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 18, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Hristinka Ilycheva Ivanova as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u184	Mrs. Vasileva, there is a technical error here. We will also have an editorial correction.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You're welcome to introduce us to the other project.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u185	Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Committee on Transport and Communications on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 18, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He chose Tihomir Gochev Tenev as a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. I am opening a discussion on the two drafts of a decision. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. We will vote on two draft decisions to complete the composition of two committees, in which were vacant seats, after a Member of the National Assembly from the "There is such a people" resigned, which we voted on. First, we will vote on the editorial amendment in the draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports: in the title Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u188	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u189	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u190	Pavel Christov? They voted 125 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online...................................................................................................................... The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the main text of the draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u192	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u193	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u194	Pavel Christov? They voted 121 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 123": for 121 in the Chamber and 2 online "123," against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Transport and Communications. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u196	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u197	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u198	Pavel Christov? They voted 122 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 124": for 122 in the Chamber and 2 online " 124," against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. This has also exhausted this item from the agenda. Moving on to point three of the program: PROJECT OF THE ANNUAL PROGRAM OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION FOR THE QUESTIONS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION. There has been a report from the Commission on European Union matters. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev. The report is with a draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2022) On the basis of art. Chapter X of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at its regular meeting held on 10 March 2022, the European Union Committee discussed and adopted a draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2022. The meeting was attended by Mr. Vasil Georgiev, Deputy Minister and Chairman of the Council on European Affairs at the Council of Ministers, Mr. Tsvetan Kulanov, from the Representation of the European Commission in Bulgaria, acting as Head of Representation of the European Commission, and Mrs. Leda Shiyakova, adviser to political analyses, as well as Mr. Vladimir Nedyalkov and Mr. Tsvetan Vladikov, State experts from the Directorate for European Union Coordination to the Administration of the Council of Ministers. The draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs has been developed in accordance with the priorities of the Triple Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the priority topics and positions laid down in the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union Decision-making process in 2022 adopted by Decision No 45 of the Council of Ministers of 2022 and submitted to the National Assembly by No 47-202-00-6 on 3 February 2022, the European Commission Work Programme for 2022, published on 19 October 2021, and the proposals made by the Permanent Parliamentary Committees of the National Assembly within the time limit set in art. 115, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The priorities and main guidelines of the European Commission Work Programme for 2022 were discussed at a meeting of the European Union Committee on Issues held on 19 January 2022, with the participation of Tsvetan Kulanov, acting as Head of Representation of the European Commission in Bulgaria. In its Work Programme for 2022, under the motto together, we are making Europe stronger and the European Commission is proposing 42 new policy initiatives setting for the implementation of the six ambitious objectives set out in the political guidelines of President Ursula von der Lyon for the period 2019 - 2024, while also taking into account the new challenges related to the pandemic, socio-economic recovery and building sustainability and capacity to deal with future crises, confirming the commitment of the European Union to work for a more environmentally friendly, fairer, more digitalised and more sustainable Europe after COVID-19: 1. European Green Pact; 2. Europe prepared for the digital age; 3. Economics in the interests of the people; 4. Stronger Europe on the world stage; 5. Strengthening our European way of life; 6. A new impetus for European democracy. The main priority topics and positions laid down in the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union (2022) During the meeting Mr. Vasil Georgiev presented the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. Taking into account the agenda of the European Commission and the Programme of the Triple Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the following policies on the European agenda continue to be key in 2022: stimulating the growth and competitiveness of the European economy with a focus on digital and climate transformation, cohesion and regional development policy, public health, crisis management, migration, enlargement policy, rule of law, the protection of fundamental values, rights and freedoms. In the preparation of the draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2022) The following considerations have also been taken into account: The adoption of the new work programme shall not interrupt the monitoring and control process of the draft acts of the institutions of the European Union included in the previous annual work programmes of the National Assembly on matters of the European Union which have not been examined or finally adopted. Checks on compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality of the European legislative proposals included in the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union matters for 2022 will be carried out by actively exercising the powers of the National Assembly under Protocol No 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Annual Work Programme shall prioritise draft acts which are legislative and enable the National Assembly to effectively monitor the government's participation on the European agenda and to participate in political dialogue with the European institutions. The annual work programme shall not, in principle, include projects aimed solely at codifying existing acts, simplifying them or resulting from their periodic review. If necessary to the current work programme, the permanent committees of the National Assembly have the opportunity to examine other documents of the European institutions. After the discussion, the Commission on European Union issues was discussed on the basis of art. 115, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose by 11 votes for the European Union and 4 abstentions from the National Assembly to adopt the following decision for the adoption of the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues (2022) Subcutaneous or intravenous use ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2022) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 115, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopt the following Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2022) Subcutaneous or intravenous use Annual Work Programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues (2022) The National Assembly shall be chaired by: - the contribution of national parliaments to the good functioning of the Union, as established in art. 12 of the Treaty on European Union and their role in formulating European policies; - respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the European legislative process; - the striving for active participation of national parliaments in the process of tackling the negative social and economic consequences resulting from the pandemic caused by COVID-19; - the importance of measures to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion as a prerequisite for building a more sustainable and sustainable European Union; - the importance of the European acts on the socio-economic development of the Republic of Bulgaria to achieve digital and climate transformation and to build a fairer, more sustainable and more coherent society in accordance with the European Green Pact 2030, the UN Programme by 2030 and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. Decided to exercise his powers under art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, subject to the procedure of parliamentary supervision and control of Chapter X, of art. Article 115 118 including, from the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft acts in the following priority areas: European Green Pact I. Zero pollution package 1. Review of Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 on classification, labelling and packaging. 2. Review of European Union legislation on air quality. II. A package of climate measures 3. Review of European Union rules on fluorinated greenhouse gases. 4. European Union framework for harmonised measurement of emissions from transport and logistics. 5. Review of CO2 emissions standards from heavy goods vehicles. 6. Certification of carbon removals. III. Round economy 7. An initiative on the right to amend. IV. Plastic package 8. Measures to reduce the release of plastic microparticles into the environment. V. Biological diversity and from the farm to the table 9. Sustainable use of pesticides is a review of European Union rules. Europe prepared for the digital age I. Cyber resistance 10. European legislation on cyber resistance. II. Having a power handling capacity 11. European legislation on chips. III. Innovative and sustainable space 12. Building a space-based global secure communication system. 13. European Union strategy for space traffic management (non-legal initiative). IV. Digital education and skills 14. Recommendation on improving the provision of digital skills in education and training (non-legal initiative). 15. Recommendation on factors favouring digital education (non-legal initiative). V. Single market 16. An instrument to support the Single Market in emergency situations. VI. Multimodal digital mobility 17. Digital services for multilingual mobility. Economics in the interests of people I. Protection of workers 18. Protection of workers from risks associated with exposure to asbestos at work. II. Small and medium-sized enterprises 19. Easier access for small and medium-sized enterprises to capital. III. Instant payments 20. An initiative on immediate payments in the European Union. IV. Deepening of the Union of Capital Markets 21. An initiative to harmonise certain aspects of material law in the field of insolvency proceedings. V. Fair taxation 22. Proposal on the implementation of the OECD Global Agreement on the redistribution of tax rights. Stronger Europe on the world stage 23. Amendment to the Blocking Regulation. 24. A new strategy for international commitment in the field of energy (non-legal initiative). 25. Joint Communication on a Partnership in the Gulf (non-legitimate initiative). Strengthening our European way of life I. Preliminary information on passengers 26. The obligation of carriers to provide prior information on passengers. II. Reciprocal access to security information 27. A framework for reciprocal access to security information for first-line officials between the European Union and key third countries to counter common security threats. III. Screening for cancer 28. Update the recommendation on screening for cancer (non-legal initiative). IV. Package of documents in the field of education 29. European strategy for universities (non-legal initiative). 30. Building bridges for effective cooperation in the field of European higher education (non-legal initiative). A new impetus for European democracy 31. A legislative act on media freedom. 32. Initiative on the transfer of criminal proceedings. 33. Recognition of parenting between Member States. 34. Strengthening the role and independence of the equality bodies.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u200	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I am opening a discussion on the draft decision which is attached to the report and was presented. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Stoyan Taslakov, come in, and Stanislav Anastasov recording.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! We will not support this work programme of the National Assembly on matters with the European Union because we believe that it does not meet the priorities in society and does not meet the real situation in Bulgaria. I've noted some things I'd like to pay attention to. Even in the introduction, there are texts that do not correspond with the truth, and I would like to draw attention to them. The aim of active participation of national parliaments in the process of dealing with the negative socio-economic consequences resulting from the pandemic caused by COVID-19. I am three months in parliament and a little more, I have not seen our Parliament take any active participation in anything that the European Union has lowered. Sorry, for me, this is a text with no content. "Negative socio-economic effects of Kovid. No, there were negative consequences of the measures taken by this government and the previous ones. The importance of measures to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion as a prerequisite for building a more sustainable and sustainable European Union. Excuse me, how many years are we talking about cohesion? There were cohesion funds before our entry into the European Union, there were them during the first programming periods, there are them now. Cohesion, Cohesion Has Anyone Seen Bulgaria Get Close to the Standards of the European Union? In my opinion, Bulgaria is closer to African republics as a standard of living. More durable and sustainable European Union. Okay, how can there be a sustainable European Union, given that one is extremely poor, the other Next item: "European Green Pact 2030" "Paris Agreement on Climate Change. " Yeah, well, we have to work on these points, but we're too far behind Our municipalities do not yet have a system for separation and recycling of waste, and we are talking here about entering a European Green Pact. The Europe, prepared for the digital era, builds a space-based global secure communication system, a space traffic management strategy. It's a very serious subject, I won't comment on it. By sending a Macedonian into space, we'll pay attention. A stronger Europe on the world stage. Why should Europe be stronger on the world stage, and since the beginning of the military conflict in Ukraine we have seen a permanent shooting of Brussels in the leg with sanctions imposed in Russia. What is it, Europe? Are there energy sources? Is there gas? I won't. She's addicted from everywhere. Is there an army? I won't. She's a NATO addict. Following the recommendations of NATO and the United States of America. Supporting the European way of life. I won't comment on it. We have been in the European Union for so many years, I cannot give a specific definition of what this European way of life is. If anyone sees it, let them show it. A new impetus for European democracy. What democracy? The one in France, where Paris was a battlefield and where people beat up this democracy, is that what Europe is going to teach us, where there were mass protests in Amsterdam, people were killed. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked I don't know what this freedom of the media is, as long as we're blocking foreign networks, websites and whatever... Is this freedom?! I don't know. The initiative on the transfer of criminal proceedings. Recognition of parenting among the Member States is unclear. I don't know, you tell me what the problem is with parenting... There's a mother, there's a father, and that's on the birth certificate. I just don't have a comment. In our opinion, the priorities of this programme are extremely, how can I say, do not correspond to the Bulgarian reality and our priorities should be equal to when subsidizing agriculture - something in which we fall behind. No one raises the question why Greece, which is about like us on the territory and arable area, is three times more subsidized than Bulgaria and Bulgarian farmers are uncompetitive and cannot break through the European markets. No one has said anything about it so far. I think that was one of the topics where we had to focus on priority. The other: The growth of the economy, the support of small and medium-sized enterprises and the development of traditional Bulgarian products, where they are not anywhere in the world and where they can add one additional value to the gross domestic product. And while the Bulgarian people are starving and wondering how to pay for oil of BGN 8.00. and up, we'll fix the traffic in space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u202	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. Is there a line to Stoyan Taslakov? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Taslakov, you are the Vice-President of this committee and clearly you do not fully understand what is being adopted at the moment. Here is not the question of us making our political arguments and showing you especially, your party, what anti-Europeans you are. It is right now that we are looking at what the European Commission's programme will be - what will be voted on in the European Parliament; what are the legislative acts and therefore we can monitor them from here. And that is why, as I said in the Commission, the President of the Foreign Commission said: "In this annual programme, which is in the Bulgarian Parliament, to monitor these acts whether they comply with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, and therefore they can be blocked. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] But I understand that you want to shine in front of people, but that has nothing to do with it. The debate about the European Union, cohesion, we can lead it at any time. You're on this committee. This is about the European Commission's work programme for this year, and what we want to watch here eventually, to set up a working group, to take action when we see that they do not comply with these principles. You cannot change them and say: where are the Bulgarian enterprises? This topic is completely different. You don't follow the agenda here. You're talking some nonsense because, you see, you want to like each other and show what an anti-European you are. Okay. If you don't like the funds, if you don't like it, here are some people getting beaten by black stamps.You go wherever you want, but Bulgaria is still a member of the European Union and under the Treaty on the Functioning we have this democratic right to observe what is being taken as a decision by the European Commission and the European Parliament, to draw up positions for something that we do not agree with and we believe that damage to the Bulgarian economy and the Bulgarian state, together with the other Member States, because there is such a procedure and, accordingly, if this does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity, it can be blocked. That is logic, and we have to de facto decide what exactly to observe next year. Anything else you say has nothing to do with this item on the agenda. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u204	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. All I ask is that we do not make such qualifications for speeches as incompetence and empty talk. A line from Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Taslakov, yes, it is clear that rhetoric is anti-European. We're not surprised. The point is that many of the criticisms you are making are actually related to the lack of participation of the Bulgarian governments in the last 10 years on European soil. The foreign policy that GERB led was at a low level, someone not to notice you at European level, so that they would let you do whatever you wanted here in Bulgaria. Now what the new government is going to do is a completely different policy. Because my friends in Europe told me: for the first time your Prime Minister at a meeting in Europe spoke more times than Boyko Borisov in 10 years. And not only that. Specific proposals are being put forward that can make us part of the imposition of the agenda in the European Union. There has been a completely different policy so far. Some of the criticisms you're saying, I would agree with you. I know what angle you want to push, but our foreign policy so far has not been at the level that Bulgaria deserves, because it has been a member of the European Union for 15 years, and we do not have this self-esteem as Europeans, but now we will have it with this government. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u206	Thank you. The third line is from Tsoncho Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u207	Mr. Taslakov, I would like to ask you most responsiblely when you go to the committee in question, to educate the President in question and to explain some things to him, because in addition to serving the so-called European partners and other ambassadors who...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u208	Mr. Ganev, please don't say that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u209	...don't do anything else. About what you said. I think it will be infinitely soft and not direct because you can explain to the President in question, for example, that his European partners should have compared the subsidies of Bulgarian agriculture five years ago, and five years later this has not been done. Moreover, after five more we will reach 95%. Please, Mr. Taslakov, to the committee in question, the President in question should pay attention to this and start following the things in question, as he does nothing other than waitressing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u210	Mr. Ganev, no such qualifications, please. Mr. Taslakov, if you can explain how to tie these things somehow to the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u211	Thank you. Mr. Stoinev, I think you misunderstood the meaning of my speech. Now let's talk about who is not responsible here. I just want to tell you that I have graduated from the European Funds and Programmes. I've been working for over 15 years at various big companies. I do not know if you have such work experience and whether you have been only a member of parliament until now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u212	It's a work experience, too. Let's not be offended here now. Are we unemployed here, after all?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u213	My speech is not about proving who is anti-European rhetoric or who wants to prove himself as a great European. My speech was related to the criticism about the non-compliance of Bulgaria's Programme with its problems. This does not make us anti-Europeans or pro-Europeans, and perhaps here Mr. Ananiev is most accurately oriented and mentioned our toothless foreign policy. Yes, Mr. Ananiev, we need to be critical of the European Union, we need to redefine our conditions, we need to redefine our subsidies in agriculture, so that our companies and producers can have adequate competitiveness on the external markets. I don't know how to answer Mr. Ganev. To monitor the committees on European issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u214	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. Will there be any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, we will, of course, support the annual work programme on European Union issues. Frankly, colleagues, however, I expected a slightly more meaningful debate on this subject from you. I fully congratulate Mr. Stoinev and the entire European Union Committee on the work they have done. I see their enthusiasm, I see the desire you have done it, by the way, in the shortest possible time. However, colleagues, I do not see the same desire and enthusiasm on the part of the Council of Ministers because the topics are related. Mr. Chairman, at the risk of making a remark to me, there are other topics on which the National Assembly has competences for which the Council of Ministers should be accountable to the National Assembly. We have had a debate here about the Recovery Plan, which basically came up with a promise that we made you a remark and today has not been fulfilled. We do not have the strategic document of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. The projects themselves say nothing about the positioning of this strategic document. Another thing, I'll take the liberty of putting it out there. We do not see any information about the criminal procedures of which Bulgaria is subject. More importantly, the latter can also be removed from the Commission's website.... what measures the executive authority will take and what commitments the National Assembly has so that we can deal with these criminal procedures. Colleagues, let me remind you that you had this in your election program. You have it in your management program. Mr. Stoynev, if you have received such a document with criminal procedures, please provide it to others because it concerns us. I'm making a note. Mr. Ananiev, you are a representative of a pan-European party. European policy is not foreign policy. European policy is an internal policy for Bulgaria a long time ago and the policies in question are sectoral policies to which we must have an attitude, because if we treat the European Union as an external policy, we will continue not to understand it and not to be a full member of the European Union. It may have been a lapsus on your part, but the attitude is wrong. The European Union is not a foreign policy, it is internal. And one more thing. The partnership agreement. Colleagues, when will we see an option, when will we see communication with the Commission? We have asked you to formally receive it so that we do not have to collect it through our political families through different channels, because we are fully aware that this will embarrass Bulgaria and the government. And we do not like to do such things despite the political effect we will achieve. Why is there no normal communication at all, Mr. Chairman of the Assembly, addressing you, between the Government and the National Assembly on European Union issues? Why hide strategic documents? Why do we not know what happens to horizontal and thematic unlocking conditions that are absolutely necessary for all programs and for all documents? Why to this day do we not have a demarcation between the individual operational programmes between the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan? I'm stopping here so I don't have to spell it out. Mr. President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I invite you, together with the President of the National Assembly, to invite the Prime Minister to fulfil his obligations under Article. 124 and 125 of the Rules of the National Assembly, because they one to one copy art. 105, para. 3 and 4 of the Constitution. Colleagues, I repeat, especially for our colleagues from "We are continuing the Change" who are looking at each other's phones, the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers have an obligation under a Constitution to present what they will do within the next six months within the Presidency. Yes, it is not on the topic that is being discussed at the moment, but all the topics are related so that Bulgaria can be a full and full member of the European Union. At least that's what we expected from you guys. Unfortunately, we don't see it so far. Unfortunately, half the French Presidency has already passed and many things have already happened or have a clear direction. You still have time to wash your eyes and invite the prime minister here to present to us for at least the next three months what he plans to do within the French Presidency. Thank you and I really hope that you will fulfill your commitments this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u216	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Dragomir Stoynev for a line. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. I fully agree with Mr. Anastasov that we really need the Prime Minister to come to parliament, but unfortunately, in the last 10 years there has been no such practice and we have been out of practice. I speak when GERB ruled us, there wasn't. It is really the Prime Minister's job to come, so of course he will be invited, this first. Secondly, I think it is already clear that, on the basis of the European Commission's Programme, we are preparing our programme for 2022. This is from colleagues who are so excited and talking here and in Europe, I am again saying that it is clear, on the basis of the European Commission's Annual Work Programme, so I hope that I cannot express myself more clearly to you to understand me. There's no waitressing going in there. On the contrary, we have to control them. We have that right. The third thing I wanted to say to Mr. Anastasov, yes, I have asked that we really see which laws have criminal procedures. I think that there is a letter already written to the President of the Parliament, which will be provided to you, because we really need to start working on these laws, which really do have legislative procedures so that we can overcome them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u218	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What do you mean, lines? All right, let's finish this procedure, two lines "Nastimir Ananiev and Toma Bikov, Stanislav Anastasov's duplicate, just to complete the procedure and end the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be quick as Mr. Anastasov mentioned me. What you're saying should be, and maybe it should be, not yet. The first because we are not a federal Europe. As soon as we get up, it'll be exactly as you say. But at the moment, as we have seen this week, the foreign ministers of all countries must gather to discuss politics and decide what to do. Thank you. [[Replications between the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Stanislav Anastasov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u220	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Anastasov, you have received a very specific answer to your question - Mr. Kiril Petkov, and he, by the way, is adequate to the situation in which Bulgaria is located, it does not come because of the management of GERB and because of the last 10 years. This I understood from the answer of the chairman of this committee and I think that this answer is worthy and it would be given even by Mr. Kiril Petkov given his intellectual potential.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u222	Mr. Bikov, enough qualifiers! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u223	Why? That's what Mr. Stoinev said, not...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u224	I don't remember him saying that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u225	Then you got one more answer. Perhaps it should be, but it is not yet, and maybe it will. This is also a dignified answer to this government. All the other answers.. You are worried here for six months ahead, for a year, I tell you that tomorrow morning, when you get up, then you will find out what will happen in two hours, because the colleagues themselves do not know. But they, these things, are decided between three or four people in the Council of Ministers and these people do not know at all that they should come to explain. And if they do, then we'll be happy to welcome them, too, but I guarantee you won't see them anytime soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u226	Thank you. Is there gonna be a duvet, or are we shutting it down? Okay, after the dot, we're adjourned.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u227	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I'll be quick. We know you're in a hurry for committees. I think Mr. Bikov is rather rhetorical. Mr. Ananiev, the European Union's foreign ministers are meeting mainly to discuss in different formats the Union's foreign policy, not what is happening inside. So far, I don't have any more. Mr. Stoynev, in the last 10 years, if I have not been in this room, there has always been someone from the DPS who has been going out and asked every six months when a prime minister or deputy prime minister will come to report what happened and to present the next six months what he is going to do. Because it's fundamental. You know that the Council, together with the Commission, is the strongest body. And that we have bad memories in the last 10 years on this topic, the question is whether we will work to have more bad memories from now on. Because the inaction of one is not an excuse for our inaction today. Dear colleagues from "We continue the Change" especially because these positions are currently within you and the representatives who are dealing with these topics are all yours. I do not wish to comment on what would happen to us as the National Assembly if this urban legend is true that there is a ban on sending strategic documents to the National Assembly on matters relating to the European Union. I hope it's not true! I'm emphasising, legend! But I do not want to believe that this is the approach to the National Assembly as a whole and to you, because part of you already know you and I see that you have the opportunity to do something about these issues. You answer it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-23.u228	Thank you. Due to running out of time, I'm adjourned. The next regular meeting will be held tomorrow at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
