ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u1	Honourable colleagues, please register. Colleagues online. Vladislav Panev? Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u3	Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u5	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u7	And Peter Chobanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u9	Registered 198 MPs in the hall and 4 online There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] For a statement please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today Bulgaria and all Bulgarians around the world celebrate an important anniversary the anniversary of the birth of the great political leader, revolutionary and fighter for the freedom of the Bulgarians from Macedonia and Edirne Thrace Gotse Delchev. Georgi Delchev was born on 23 January in an old style, or 4 February in a new one, in 1872 in the town of Kukush, then within the Ottoman Empire. Initially he studied in the Bulgarian Uniat primary school and then in the Bulgarian Exarchic secondary school in his home town. After completing it, he continued his education at the Thessaloniki Men's High School. Valentine's Day. Cyril and Methodius. There, thanks to his teacher Konstantin Velichkov, young Delchev is acquainted with the creativity and political activity of Hristo Botev, with whom he will then identify himself for years. In 1891 Delchev accepted a Bulgarian citizenship and was accepted as a Juncker in the Military of His Majesty's school in Sofia, a school which is available only for Bulgarians, with the Junckers taking an oath of allegiance except to the state, and to the prince and dynasty. Unfortunately, just a month before his graduation, he was expelled from the school because he visited a political club that was strictly forbidden to officers. As usual, however, with the great figures of history, this difficulty, rather than hindering it, reveals the true calling of Gotse Delchev, who decided to dedicate his life to the battle for the freedom of the rest of the Ottoman rule Bulgarian lands and in 1894 he went as an exarchic teacher in the town of Stip. There he met with Dame Gruev one of the founders of the Bulgarian Macedonian-Odrin revolutionary committee and was attracted to the organization, which later became the actual leader. From that time his words have remained, I quote: The time has come for us to work for Bulgaria, because we are all Bulgarians. We have to work for Bulgaria because it will come and help us. " and also: "We have to fight for the autonomy of Macedonia and Adrianople in order to preserve them in their entirety as a stage for their future accession to the common Bulgarian country. In May 1903, the reading led by Gotse Delchev faced Turkish troops near the Seri village of Banitsa, and during the subsequent battle the Voivoda was killed.. one of the worst moments in the history of IMRO. The death of the great Bulgarian does not end the legend of him or give rest to his remains. When during World War I Banitsa fell within Bulgaria, the bones of Gotse Delchev were first transferred to Xanthi, then to Plovdiv and finally to Sofia. After the coup of 1944, however, the new communist power, following its anti-national policy to create a Macedonian nation, decided to hand over the bones of Gotse Delchev to the Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, although then Macedonian Prime Minister Lazar Kulishevski defined Gotse Delchev as saying: "A Bulgarian does not matter for the liberation struggles. Over time, the personality of the great Voivoda became one of the foundations of the newly built Macedonian identity, and for this purpose its political heritage has been purposefully falsified and reversed until today, when Macedonian President Stevo Pendarovski acknowledged in an interview from 2019 that, again, I quote: Since the grave of Gotse Delchev is located in Skopje, it is a mandatory place of worship for any official Bulgarian delegation visiting the Macedonian capital, with the only unexplained exception made by the current Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. Why did we tell all this? Why did we remind of the life and causes of Gotse Delchev? Not only to honor a great Bulgarian from Macedonia, but also to show the importance of history for our present, to show that only a nation that knows, respects and keeps the memory of its heroes can be free and prosperous today and that a society that allows itself to fake history, rewrite the fates of our ancestors is not and cannot be part of the European family of shared values. God save Bulgaria, the homeland of Gotse Delchev! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u11	Affidavit? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u12	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of the National Assembly! 150 years ago, in 1872, on today's February 4th, in one then pure Bulgarian village, Kukush, one of the most significant Bulgarian revolutionaries Georgi Nikola Delchev was born. Undisputed leader of the Bulgarian national liberation movement in Macedonia and Adrianople, ideologist of the Bulgarian Macedonian-Odrin revolutionary committees, later known as the Internal Macedonian-Odrin revolutionary organization. First in a row among the well-kept fighters for national liberation of the rest of the lands after the break-up of the Berlin Congress, along with Damian Gruev, Dame Gruev, Görce Petrov, Boris Sarafov, Hristo Tatarchev, Ivan Hadzhinikolov, Petar Poparsov, Hristo Batandzhiev, Anton Dimitrov, Hristo Chernopeev, Mile Popyordanov and dozens of others so sound, pure and so close to all our names. We were thinking of setting up an organization based on the model of the revolutionary organization in Bulgaria before the Liberation, to act according to the example of Botev, Levski, Benkovski and said Dame Gruev, a partner with whom Gotse Delchev participated in a secret revolutionary club before joining the Sofia Military School. The scale in thinking and the limitless faith in the case allowed Gotse Delchev to build in Macedonia and Edirne Thrace a revolutionary organizational structure repeating in detail the 30-year-old organization built by Levski, and thus proved that with Levski they belong to a national idea, to a quest for national liberation and unification, regardless of the ways to achieve it. Today, bowing down to his work and sacrifice, we are aware of how unfair the story can be, the truth is suffering, the powerlessness is depressing. A story signed with the blood of over 200,000. Victims in wars for national unification, more than 350 thousand. banished from the native outbreaks of Macedonia and Thrace, took the only possible path back then to Bulgaria, which in the years of national devastation and universal destruction accepted them as only the real mother could do. They just had nowhere else to go. Today, Gotse Delchev is a national hero of Bulgaria and Northern Macedonia, and it cannot be otherwise because of national and family memory, which cannot be erased in spite of the decades of efforts, because the ideal of Gotse Delchev was not the one created in Europe after World War I, which caused incurable damage to Bulgaria, but ended in vain and caused suffering to thousands of its inhabitants. His ideal was another... release and a field for cultural competition among the nations. So today, despite the viciscities of time, the strikes of the last century on our fair national desires, we know that if we want to move forward, we cannot live only with the past, but no one can force us to forget and give up historical truth and our own memory, including those for which the lack of better communication and better articulation of our claims, as they say, was an obstacle to understanding us. For this reason, we of this kind support the government's approach and efforts to introduce new dynamics in bilateral relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. We believe and are convinced that comprehensive and continuous deepening cooperation in the economy, transport, innovation, culture, sport and in human relations without prejudice is beneficial to both sides and desired by the vast majority of citizens. We support and support the executive power in the portfolios we participate in to develop and secure a comprehensive action plan with measures to make tangible progress. We will do everything in our power to achieve the success of Northern Macedonia on the road to full membership of the European Union. We do not question the right to identity as it feels, but we do not accept in any way a proven replacement of historical truth. We state that we will actively support all efforts to achieve results on the unresolved political issues, and the condition is only one implementation of the 2017 Treaty, thus unlocking the membership of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in NATO. It's the only way to move forward. We also call for a greater trust between the men of state on both sides, a more natural communication, without overexcited messages and a demonstration of how much more things divide us than unite us. On the contrary, the vast majority of people feel and know exactly the opposite, and that is why even the mistrust, lack of openness and forgetting the contradictions in giving our common respect to our common hero Gotse Delchev is here or in front of his remains in the church of St. Spas. Let us look together in our common future and let us know well: there are no two ways here, either under the widely built garment of the European Union, or there as the last vote of some past times. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN, "We are continuing the Change", DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u13	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to make the following announcements. First of all, it has been notified by the Parliamentary Group of.. We continue the Change................................................................................................ Tabutov was elected vice-president of the parliamentary group and Petar Nikolaev Kulenski was also elected vice-president of the parliamentary group. In addition, according to the Fiscal Council Act and the automatic corrective mechanisms in the National Assembly, opinions have been received by the Fiscal Council on the Draft Budget Bill of State Social Security for 2022 and an opinion of the Fiscal Council on the Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Health and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We move on to item one of the agenda for today's Blitzcontrol.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u14	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u15	Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you to be sure that you have forgotten yesterday to warn the National Assembly officials who are looking after the maintenance of the website of the National Assembly, and thus lie to the Bulgarian citizens, lie to the MPs, lie to Minister Rashkov, lie to the Deputy Prime Minister, lie to the Prime Minister, lie to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria that it has been answered to my question from 15 December 2021 to Minister Rashkov. [[Laughter]] On the website of the National Assembly in the status of my question writes: answered, and hence, when we enter the content [[Read from your cell phone]] , we see that there is a correspondence clearly to you, I do not know why it is addressed to me, because it is about explaining the activities of the Ministry of Interior and clarifying some laws. And my question was another to Minister Rashkov on the grounds of art. 111 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and on the basis of art. 138 I have requested for each particular case the occasion, the basis and all the actions and all the documents for each particular case of police activity, the perversions against the Bulgarian citizens, the abuse with the honor and dignity of the vulnerable groups in the society Bulgarian citizens, which were applied during the elections in July and November. The answer should contain these documents, I do not see such documents either on the website or in the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, I would remind you to warn them to change the status of my question that it is not answered, but Mr. Prime Minister. Hold, do control, your ministers do not answer the questions of the MPs, but according to art. 90 of the Constitution, if you ever decide to execute the Constitution...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u17	The weather, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u18	... obliges the Prime Minister and the Ministers to answer the questions of MPs. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u19	And thank you, Mr. Karadaye. There's no reason to download the response received from Mr. Rashkov. [[Applause from the Council of Ministers Continue the Change.]] The correspondence is not with me, the correspondence is with you, through me. [[National Representative Mustafa Karadaye wants the floor.]] I'll give you the floor in the manner of conduct. As I told you, I've sent your objection to Mr. Rashkov, if anything further happens, I'll let you know. And please, the verb lies about using it less often. I have not received a complaint from any of the parties concerned that you mentioned to feel cheated. Here you go. Please, two minutes of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It seems that the Social Democrats, called as a parliamentary group, continue to change, are not interested in the rules, but impose their own rules. It doesn't matter to them what the Constitution and the laws of the country say, including you, Mr. Chairman, and these are national socialist primos and methods. Let me just remind you of Al. 5, Honorable Mr. Chairman, of art. 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there writes [[Read from the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly]] : "When a written answer to the question has been received, the President shall communicate it in a meeting in the parliamentary control. The date of publication of the written answer to the question on the website of the National Assembly in the section of the Parliamentary Control is considered as the date of receipt by the National Representative. Dear Mr. Chairman, I do not see the documents requested on the grounds of art. 111 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and he has the power of law. Article 111 in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, in this National Assembly, you changed it and there I will now read to you that you said and if they do not reply: "If they refuse to fulfil their constitutional obligations, they are held accountable. [[Replying: "Search! "]] It's about art. 111, which reads: "All public authorities and officials from the state and municipal administration and citizens are obliged to provide the necessary information and documents to the MPs, whether official or state secret. [[Replying: "Search! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u21	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I mean, the lyrics...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u22	And here, what you uploaded to the National Assembly website is not contained... [[Replying: "Search! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u23	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u24	...the documents I asked for. So there's no answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u25	Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u28	And in a moment, I'll bring them to you so you can meet them...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u30	...I'll be there in a minute, just to print them out the question and answer! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u31	Colleagues, otherwise you can meet them on the site. We're moving on to blitz control. [[National Representative Halil Letifov wants the floor.]] Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u32	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers! Mr. Chairman, you said you had no reason to remove or change the status of the National Assembly website. On what grounds do you consider that you have no reason to change it? What arguments? Draw out your motives and the respective Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, on whose grounds you claim this. Dear colleagues, when you enjoy such an approach, let me tell you that you enjoy the conversion of the forty-seventh People's Assembly into a rubber stamp and an extension of the Council of Ministers, because they rejoice and applaud and imitate lawlessness! Is that what you're enjoying, fellow Members?! The highest authority in our parliamentary republic is the National Assembly! This is another lie by the government, who claimed that the National Assembly would not be a rubber stamp of the Council of Ministers. Do you see that? Thank you for understanding. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u33	Let's move on to parliamentary control now. [[National Representative Zhecho Stankov wants the floor.]] Mr. Stankov, procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I appeal to you, Mr President, in connection with the powers given to you by the Rules and, indeed, with a request concerning the agenda of the public, which for more than half a year has been directed to the sector of............................. with extremely high prices of both electricity and gas, which have led to the exclusion of street lighting in hundreds of Bulgarian settlements in dozens of municipalities, seeing... [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria: "This is not a procedure! "]] Seeing the possibility of that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u35	Mr. Stankov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u36	...not to decide in time...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u37	Mr. Stankov, I'm listening to the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u38	...you have the rights to the Rules of Procedure. After we have insisted from our group for more than 48 hours that the report from the meeting on 1 February 2022 be submitted to the National Assembly, we finally see it on the website of the National Assembly, which means that if you are willing and supportive of the agenda of the public, you will agree today in relation to art. 47, para. 5 to amend the Rules of Procedure and include the so important 100% subsidy point for non-bit consumers, which will give breath and at least cancel, so to speak, the electricity regime in cities, will cancel the public transport dilution regime, will cancel the possibility, once the students have finished their inter-term vacation, to be welcomed back into warm rooms, will also cancel the possibility in nursing homes and at temples to do fundraising shares...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u39	Thank you, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u40	...which for the first time in Bulgarian history happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u41	Thank you. Mr. Svilensky? Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u42	You didn't take any part in my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u43	After Mr. Svilensky, I'll take a general attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u44	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! And I, as Mr. Karadayi, will go out every morning on this platform when GERB speculates with the prices of electricity, electricity, people and structures affected by this thing! [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] And I will remind all Bulgarian citizens that the government of Borisov, in recognition of Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova, ended the project "Belene" and now do not tell us why there is no electricity and why the electricity is expensive! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] During the government of GERB these all structures went on the free market, which is why they pay these prices. Municipalities managed by GERB pay 6 thousand. And 500 leva. for street lamp and 1500 leva. For the decoration of this street lamp, it turned out. This is what GERB is doing and now they say that there is no money and that the issue should be raised. Yes, you do! I told you yesterday that the ministers and the government are working on it and will give you the solutions. These speculations and this hypocrisy, honourable gentlemen, former ministers and deputy ministers of the GERB government, humble yourselves, be silent and listen to the government what they offer. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] When you did all this to the Bulgarian citizens, when you closed the project "Belene" when you got hospitals, Orthodox temples, schools, kindergartens on the free market, when you brought the Bulgarian society... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u45	Mr. Svilensky...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u46	...to not be able to pay his bills...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u47	...I'll respond to the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u48	...your behavior is hypocritical, colleagues. Thank you. [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria and We are continuing the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u49	Colleagues, let's keep a good voice! I found out what Mr. Stankov's proposal was. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "A" what is Mr. Svilenski's proposal?]] Quiet, please! I understand Mr. Stankov's proposal. I'm not taking advantage of my rights under art. 47, para. 5. We will enter the examination next week, we will examine what the Council of Ministers has planned, anyway within the framework of the blitzcontrol you can ask questions and we will find out. [[The National Representative Zhecho Stankov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Alexander Ivanov was a procedure. [[Relations from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov.]] No, no, please, Mr. Stankov, come on. For the personal explanation, the Member of the National Assembly must be mentioned by name and be really affected, please. We cannot make the personal explanation into a line which, unfortunately, began to be imposed as a practice in the National Assembly. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, you are for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. As chairman of today's session, you should have taken away the floor of the speaker because he at least allowed himself to tell the largest opposition party, which represents over 600 000 Bulgarian citizens, despite the elections held under heavy campaign pressure and by the ruling ministers, again kept 600 000 Bulgarian citizens... we represent them and he cannot tell the parliamentary group to listen and the parliamentary group will put conditions and place questions to the government! Mr. Svilenski, you have now promised a bright future to Bulgarian citizens, and unfortunately, today's future and everyday life of Bulgarian citizens is dark, cold and more expensive. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u51	Thank you for this procedure. Let's stop with the exchange of lines on the left and right sides of the room and move on to blitz control where we can ask our current questions to the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers. [[The National Representative Nikolina Angelkova wants the floor for procedure.]] You, Mrs. Angelkova, are you for procedure? [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a minute, guys. For the whole room, I said it on both sides!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u53	Mr. Chenchev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u54	Mr. Chenchev, can we have some quiet?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u55	Mrs. Angelkova, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u56	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! Mr. President, once again, I am addressing you? Why are you returning my question to the Prime Minister about the measures taken in the sector of Tourism? You once again explain to me that this is a sectoral policy, only aimed at the Minister of Tourism. I do not know if you have bothered to get acquainted with the direct competences of the Minister of Tourism and with what resource and what is available in the ministry itself? The questioning, according to the Rules, art. 94, the MPs are asking questions to the members of the Council of Ministers, and the Prime Minister is asking questions concerning the general policy of the government. I believe that tourism is such a policy because, in order to be able to take adequate action, especially in the current situation of a horse pandemic, at extremely high electricity prices, the sector's inability to function normally, the entire Council of Ministers is responsible, and not only the Minister of Tourism, but also the Minister of Labour and Social Policy in terms of measures for personnel in tourism, which are key; the Minister of Economy and Industry in terms of measures, economic measures for the sector, and so on. And I think it is appropriate for the Prime Minister to respond to what measures are being taken so that this sector can be protected and restored. Not to mention... [[The President reminds Mrs Angelkova that time is running out.]] One minute. A little more. Not to mention...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u57	Mrs. Angelkova, I understand your procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u58	I'm graduating. Not to mention that, instead of being granted aid, they are given loans and the aid received by the NRA is required to be reimbursed together with interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Regarding the citation of the Rules, I shall refer to art. 103 of it, which states that the dispute is being made not in plenary, but is being dealt with by the Presidential Council. That's where we'll discuss it. Here you are, challenge the return and it will go according to its procedure. We move on to the questions of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers of the Parliamentary Group. Vladimir Tabutov. Here you go, Mr. Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u60	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is related to Corridor No. 4, addressed to the Minister of Regional Development Mr. Karadjov, Lot 3.2 "Krupnik" the Tower, and specifically about the status on the permits issued, the funding that is organised for the implementation of this lot, as well as the deadline for implementing and putting into service this part of the motorway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u61	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will use some of the documents I carry with me in relation to Struma Motorway, and in particular the section that you are quoting. In this section, as you know, it is almost built, the tunnel itself will finish by mid-this year, almost begin the activities of asphalt finishing works that are inside this tunnel. However, for it to be put into service, the resulting landslides should be strengthened. And these landslides are on both sides of the tunnel, which means they're preventing it from actually putting into service. Initially last year, no power-building option was developed, but this option is not at all suitable for a lasting solution to the problem and therefore the work on it has ceased. Now a new design has begun to solve the problem of this landslide permanently, and possibly then to do the reinforcements so that the most rapid release of the movement along the entire section of Blagoevgrad to Simitli. For the current status, the project solution for the tunnel landslide after Zheleznitsa is currently developed and is expected to be strengthened by the end of the year. The post Simitli division is also contractually linked to the construction of Lot 3.1, which, however, falls within Struma's EIA. Why does it fall into Struma's EIA? Because this completion of this section is actually the beginning of the transition through the Kresna Gorge. There, as you know, we are in a situation of three possible options and this small queue of several kilometers will actually undergo changes depending on which of the three options will be chosen, because you know that there are currently three working groups that need to answer the question on which of the ideas will actually be built. In addition to what I have told you that the sub-division before the tunnel, which is a bridge facility, will be... its beginning falls within the scope of the blast that is affected by the landslide processes, and in order to complete and put into operation, it will have to be reinforced and the landslide and put into operation together with the previous section of which I spoke to you about on the other side of the tunnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u63	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Line, Mr. Tabutov, would you like? No. Thank you. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u64	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! With all due humility, as we have been instructed, I allow myself to ask the Prime Minister a question without underestimating the distribution of portfolios between the Deputy Prime Ministers, and the issue is not sectoral because it is about the overall government's governance. Mr. Prime Minister, as you probably know, you are in possession of agreed access to 50 billion. European funding for the coming years. Under one third of these funds are the funds provided for the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan, the rest are operational programmes, the Rural Development Programme, direct payments. Of course, the role of these funds is subject to various mythologies because we have a version that this money does not matter at all or that Bulgaria is totally dependent on this money. Both, and the other is not true.. That's what the numbers show. These funds are rarely more than 8% of the public expenditures in the different years 4 - 4,5% of the gross domestic product. At the same time, however, in most years, they are 65.. 70% of public investment.. the main resource for modernization of the country, the main resource with which policies can be made. Of course, access to these funds is not unconditional. And what interests me is when will Bulgaria have an approved Recovery and Sustainability Plan, Partnership Agreement and approved operational programmes? Because, let me remind you that the new programming period started on 1 January 2021. In this sense, 2021 is a zero "what part of 2022 will also be zero," when will Bulgaria have access to this money and when will companies, state institutions, local authorities also have access to these funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u65	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In answer to your question, I can directly say that the plan has been submitted to the European Commission at the moment and it is considering it. However, the transmission has taken some major changes to some of the sectoral policies. Only as an example can I share with you in the sector of the Russian gas at the moment, as you know, we have a huge dependence on Russian gas. At the same time, we have a very large dependence on energy at the nuclear power plant "Belene", excuse me. NPP "Kozloduy", and at the same time, at the moment you know the conflict that is growing between NATO and Russia, we have a very high risk of potential sanctions and potential uncertainty in gas supply. At the same time, in the Plan we found, there was a steam-gas plant, which, for example, gives dependence to increase even more of these supplies and the Bulgarian independence in energy was reduced. We, as a new government, cannot accept this type of dependence, and we have had to rework part of the Plan so that we can have more independent energy, greener energy and all this we have managed to do for a very short period and I am pleased to say that at the moment the European Commission welcomes these new changes and await their final result. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Thank you. [[(Extreme applause) (Extreme applause) (Extreme applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u67	Please be quiet in the hall. Here you go, Mr. Donchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u68	Dear Prime Minister, there was a line from a hero of Luke Besson that time didn't matter, only life matters. I'm afraid we're in the opposite situation, because time is of the utmost importance here. If you have an approved plan today, you have to negotiate 600 million per month because the deadline for negotiation is 2023, first. Secondly, if you have an approved plan and the entire package of operational programmes and money arrives hypothetically in April or May in the country, knowing the peculiarities of the investment process, they will be available to the end user around mid 2023. Finally, I am glad that you have sent a new version of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. That's great. It is not great, however, that this will probably be the first version that has been sent to the European Commission and no one in Bulgaria has seen it. This hasn't happened at all so far. Not at all! Another question is that this plan has been rewritten for more time than it has been written. But the fact that no one in Bulgaria knows what you have sent is a problem. And I very much ask, using the procedure, except to send it to the European Commission, in some way, to make it known to the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u69	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Petkov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u70	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, thank you for commenting on what time means and how well time can be used, how quickly time runs out. In this room I feel that the clock is going differently, but this is a slight comment on this subject. First, there will be public discussions. Secondly, I guarantee you [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] I guarantee you... If you want to ask one question after another, ask one after another. Secondly, I mean, it is much better to wait two or three more weeks than to spend billions that can change Bulgaria's future in a terribly wrong way for some of the policies that we found inherited from your work. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u71	Thank you. Here's a question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u72	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I develop my question, there is something like that that voters usually want someone to promise them something impossible to support. If they're told how it really is, they don't vote for it. Prime Minister, the elections have passed, we have heard many promises, really many promises. Almost half the members of the Council of Ministers, headed by you, were ministers, even a prime minister in two offices. When you became a minister, there was no inflation, there was no blackout, there was no electricity crisis, there was no gas crisis, but there was a coronavirus crisis. You are now Prime Minister and the crises are thorough. There are over 11,000 infected a day, the municipalities in distress, inflation in unseen sizes, the price of goods of primary necessity is very high. Recently the Association of Municipalities asked for a meeting and informed you, we understand that a large part of the Bulgarian municipalities cannot pay, have difficulties in paying electricity in the respective regions. This leads, of course, to various restrictions in these municipalities, difficulties in different homes, nurseries, kindergartens, electricity regime, but this also leads to an increase in domestic crime. Two days ago we heard from you that you will bind the aid that municipalities want with what the State Financial Inspection Agency has to do to check really how public resources are spent in these municipalities. My question is: how and when the Council of Ministers intends to assist the Bulgarian municipalities in order not to have difficulties in paying electricity in the relevant regions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u74	Thanks for asking. The Bulgarian municipalities are already receiving aid as part of the aid that is for non-resident consumers. We are talking about additional aid and we have held an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers and we have decided that we will make a working group that requires what funds they need. [[experience in the group of GERB-SDS, part of the MPs leave the hall]] But when we saw examples like in Sofia Municipality, where a lamp cost on one side of the street 5755 BGN, and on the other side of the same street the same lamp cost BGN 1587, and at the same time we received a desire for more financial help, we were startled. Do some of these municipalities need this extra money because they spend four times more than they should for part of their investment costs, or are they really struggling with the inability to pay these additional bills? That is why we have committed the opportunity to talk to every single municipality that needs to come to us, we will listen to them, we will be ready to help them, but at the same time we have to make sure that, as in Sofia Municipality, we do not have four times more costs than we should, because of, for example, poor public procurement. From here on out... And the other thing that is very important to state: the state has no money. We're taking that money from the taxpayers and redeploying it. If we redistribute them effectively when the lamp costs BGN 1587, that's good, but when we redistribute them and someone spends them four times more at a price of BGN 5755. And at the same time he says: we don't have enough money for lighting, we are very worried and from now on no one will be able to spend opaque money, and at the same time we are open, our doors are wide open to people who have difficulties, municipalities who have difficulties, although they have made their public procurement in the most transparent way. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u75	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! I did not receive an answer to the question I asked, but I understand on Facebook publications and on statements by municipal councillor in Sofia Municipality, you find that there is a violation in Sofia Municipality. Is this a finding of an institution that you are referring to, or is it a Facebook post? Because both you and me and each of us on Facebook have a lot of Facebook posts and findings. So, my question was precise and clear: when the Council of Ministers and how it plans to propose effective measures to support the Bulgarian municipalities, because already the Ministry of Finance with Minister Asen Vassilev has ordered verification of the Agency for State Financial Inspection to the relevant municipalities that have requested such assistance. That is, this check will last at least one month, in one month another analysis will be made whether there should be help..................... that it has come summer and there may be elections. So, Prime Minister, please answer: when and how will the Council of Ministers take effective measures to assist the Bulgarian municipalities during this current crisis? Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u78	To answer your question clearly: there is already aid of 250 BGN. of megawatt hours as aid for helping to deal with high electricity prices. At the same time, the issue is not based on Facebook, unfortunately, if it were only on Facebook, we wouldn't have a problem. Currently there is an investigation of the Ministry of Interior about these prices [[noise and lines]] Yeah, so I want to assure you... I do not see why municipalities should worry, we said: let them come with their demands and at the same time we demand what the state must do, at the same time to have a continuous check whether public funds are spent in the most transparent way. I do not see what is threatening, what is scary if everyone has spent their money in the most transparent way and have these needs to come to us. Surprisingly for us, however, we do not yet have municipalities that have come with direct requests at the moment......................I do not know if these are the very same municipalities, whether they are worried about something else. I hope not. The doors are open with us. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u79	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Mr. Gajev for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u80	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman! My procedure is in the manner of conduct, as many times in this Chamber and you yourself have made a remark to the Members of the National Assembly not to make accusations and not to read sentences from the stand. I ask you to adhere not only to the MPs but also to the members of the Council of Ministers. I think that would be correct, because speaking accusations without a final analysis, at the very least, is incorrect. By the way, whether or not there are higher prices on the lamps in Sofia Municipality, I recommend that you open today's number of Capitals, there is a very interesting analysis that disproves this article. I guess you haven't gotten to him yet. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u81	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I didn't hear a specific accuser if there was... [[(Replys from GERB-SDS:]] Sofia Municipality is at least not a natural person. However, everyone, both the MPs and the members of the Council of Ministers, must adhere to such standards. That's absolutely true. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria. Dragomir Stoynev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Vice Prime Ministers, honourable Members, my question is rather to the Minister of Finance Mr. Vassilev as a continuation of the previous question. Because, fellow Members, this is not just about municipalities, this is not just about mayors who have obviously abused the funds of the "Kozloduy" fund or the Norwegian programme, this is about public institutions performing social functions, it is about schools, kindergartens, nurseries, educational institutions, people who are really conscientious and who educate and train our children, but electricity bills are really getting extremely heavy. We welcome, of course, what is happening, that every single municipality must be checked, because what is really happening in Sofia Municipality is completely unacceptable. But Mr. Vassilev, my question is to you because this week there was a very serious PR attack, but obviously it aimed mainly at municipalities by GERB and not so kindergartens, nurseries, schools. It is important for us to know: will there be compensation for them this year, if it is envisaged in the budget, if there is a working group, because from your response we have seen that in the end up to 75% of you have already been authorised by the European Commission, all non-bit consumers to be compensated. That is to say, is compensation expected precisely for social institutions, for schools, because indeed they are in a very difficult situation. I'm putting aside that these directors we almost made financial managers. Instead of getting involved in providing a better service, they are really engaged in non-same activities. So what do you expect from now on in view of the high price of electricity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u83	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u84	Mr. Stoinev, thank you for the question. As the Prime Minister said: up to 250 BGN. at megawatt hour or up to 75% of the difference in the price of all these schools, community centers, social institutions, municipalities, will be automatically compensated with February bills for both January and February [[Applause from..We continue the Change..... BSP for Bulgaria...............................................................................................]] since we got... If you remember, this was one of the government's first actions at the end of December, after which a notification was sent to the European Union, the approval of the notification is a fact with the February accounts will be given both for January and for February on the basis of the funds that the National Assembly has allocated from the additional revenue above the budget's estimated $450 million. lv. You quite rightly said that we have turned the principals of schools and mayors into electricity traders. This is because the liberalisation that was made on the market, so necessary, did not predict how in fact all state institutions would be able to manage their energy contracts wisely. That's why there's a task force. This working group deals with two issues. The first question is: if there are municipalities where these 250 leva. At the megawatt hours are really insufficient, they can come and say, here are our bills, this is the money we have in stock, we can't pay them. Then I'll make a quick check to see if, why, how things are, and they can get extra funding. In the budget for this year in the alimony feathers, including the transfer to municipalities, there are increases precisely for overheads. Especially for municipalities, the transfer increased by 15% compared to last year, capital expenditure by 30% compared to last year in the draft budget law. As soon as it is adopted by the National Assembly, these funds will be available to them. But the more important point in the working group is to make sure that municipalities, kindergartens, schools, all those who want to, from the public sector, can buy electricity together through a common supplier who, in fact, on behalf of the state, buy electricity under long-term contracts on the Exchange. This will allow 12- or 24-month predictability of prices. It will make budgeting normal and make sure that we have a free market, on the one hand, on the other hand, that every school director does not have to become an electricity trader and understand the specifics of this activity. This, honourable colleagues of GERB, if you had done two years ago, would now have no problem with the electricity of the schools, neither with the electricity of the kindergartens, nor with the electricity of the municipalities, even the Sofia Municipality. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u85	For a cue, Mr. Stoynev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vassilev, we at BSP are extremely pleased with your response. We are also pleased with the budget we see and the steps the government is taking. Because if this compensation is short-term action, you have now explained how the state really returns to its place, how the state can perform its social functions, how the state can assist precisely those public institutions that provide social functions. It's really the government's business. This is a clear sign that this government is working in a good way, that the distortions of the past are being overcome. People really expect to have government support, whether by industry or by non-domestic consumers, by domestic consumers. We're really satisfied! The fact is that after another week we will also look at the budget, where approximately 20 billion of these budgets are for social expenses, something that greatly satisfies BSP. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u87	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, for a question on behalf of the parliamentary group of the people there is such a people.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Mr. Vassilev. Before I ask the question, I will only address some people who handle the term sense of something, and I will announce to them that my question concerns the global Law of Magnitsky and the list adopted by Decision of the Council of Ministers of 4 June. I don't know anyone on that list, and I don't have any relationship with them. I lied. I've only seen Mr Peevski as a member of the National Assembly. On 4 June a decision of the Council of Ministers is adopted to protect Bulgaria's financial system from the measures under the Law "Magnite". I will not go into details. A Temporary Commission was established to establish facts and circumstances regarding the actions and omissions of the competent Bulgarian authorities in connection with sanctions imposed on the Bulgarian natural and legal persons of the Office for the Control of Foreign Assets of the United States Ministry of Finance on 2 June on the basis of the Global Law of Magnetski for liability for violations of human rights. Chairman of this committee was the current Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova. With Komsomol's flame in my eyes I was a member of this committee, we listened, we collected documents from all state institutions in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission suspended its action due to the cessation of the activities of the National Assembly and did not come up with a report. From my presence as a member of this committee, I know what the report should be about, and perhaps it is better that the National Assembly has completed its activities so that we do not come up with a report. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It was presented by the Deputy Minister of Justice then, who I think is now Deputy Minister, and Minister Yanaki Stoilov, who is now a constitutional judge...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u89	The weather, Mr. Atanasov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u90	Sorry, I'm graduating. ... Law on measures for the prevention and protection of national security against violations related to the economic and financial security of the State. Is it working under this law by the current government and the Ministry of Justice? Because everyone's opinion was that such a law should be adopted immediately. Judgments of the Supreme Administrative Court began, which said that all the persons on the list at all and the Council of Ministers' decision were unlawful due to a lack of national law. That's my first question, whether it's working or not. My second question is whether there is a danger to the National Assembly in paying Mr Peevski's salaries as a representative of the National Assembly. Is that a violation of the Magnet Law? What measures will the government take from this point on a possible new list of "Magnitski" to protect Bulgaria's financial interests?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u91	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. I've given you twice as much time as I can. [[(Reply from the National Representative Ivo Atanasov, away from the ……]] It's an important question! Colleagues, please comply with the exposition, the overture to your questions, however, with the limitations of the Rules. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u92	Thanks for asking, Mr. Atanasov. Yes, during the first office, we had to deal with an extremely difficult situation when the global law came out and there were real prerequisites for the financial system, Bulgaria's economy to fall under very severe blows. Since there is a hole in the legislation, the decision of the Council of Ministers was adopted with a clear statement in the decision itself that there is a hole in the legislation that needs to be filled. A working group was established between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice to draft a bill on this topic. As far as I know, the Commission has begun to consider some version of this bill. During the second office, as far as I understand, there is no active work. We have now restored the working group and, as soon as possible, we intend to propose a bill that is not specific to the "Magnitski" but to external sanctions, the implementation of which would lead to serious shocks and problems in the Bulgarian banking system or in the Bulgarian economy. The question, purely legal, which is not within the competence of the Finance Ministry, is how to balance the protection of state enterprises and the Bulgarian economy as a whole, as well as the banking system, with the rights of the persons concerned who fall under sanctions from foreign countries and the persons associated with them. I expect the bill to enter here within weeks. I expect a lot of active debates, especially from some of the political forces. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u93	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Would you like a line? No. We are moving on to a question from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Mrs. Bellobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u94	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members! Happy Thanksgiving, everybody! My question is to Minister Vassilev and he is related to securing the activities of the social services in Bulgaria in relation to the increasing prices of electricity: please explain the mechanism for compensation of those services that are responsible and care for the most vulnerable groups of society. We are aware that compensation is foreseen, but I will ask you to communicate clearly the order in which they will be compensated, the mechanism and the deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u96	Thank you for the question, Mrs. Bellobradova. With the February bills, all social institutions and so on will receive compensation for both January and February. The compensations amount to up to 250 BGN. at megawatt hour or up to 75% of the price difference compared to July last year. Moreover, all ministries currently having additional needs are given additional support funds, and in the budget itself, which is currently under consideration, there is an increase in maintenance funds of about 15%, which would allow higher electricity prices to be covered within this year. So at the moment, January and February will be compensated February. If there is an additional need for funds, this may be provided upon request by the ministry concerned. So far, we don't have any. The budget generally provides for higher costs of maintenance related precisely to the high price of electricity. In addition, in the long term, as I mentioned earlier, it is envisaged that the state will make centralised purchasing of electricity so that every social home and school does not have to make separate contracts and understand this matter. This would give sustainability, since these contracts are 12- or 24-monthly, at the prices at which electricity is used, as well as predictability for the budgeting of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u97	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Would you like a line, Mrs. Bellobradova? No. From rebirth? Mr. Ganev, come in for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u98	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Prime Minister, the highest tribune in Bulgaria is right in the parliament where the laws of our country are forged. It is from this tribune that my question to you is also connected, as you, as Prime Minister, are directly and directly responsible for the work of all your ministers and Volvo or not, must bear responsibility for what they do or do not do. In this regard, before I get to the specific question, I will introduce you to a case that concerns not only a private case, but many children in Bulgaria - unfortunately, children with asthma and more precisely in a severe form of asthma. It is these children under the Bulgarian legislation, after a decision of medical persons and after duly issued documents, who are entitled not to wear masks in school. It is clearly and categorically said that they should not wear the masks in question because they are threatened with complications and not to give God something much scarier at the time they are in school. This thing is clear to the education minister. However, the education minister for whom you are ultimately responsible whether or not he or she complies with the legislation does not include the order in question to all schools that these children should not be chased because they do not wear a mask. After all, parents are signaling to the district inspectors. Nobody's taking action! Everyone says: the minister has given the order in question. It is so far that on 14 December 2021, I ask a question and inform the Minister of Education and Science about this huge problem concerning the health and life of children that children should not wear masks in school. One month, one month, the minister does absolutely nothing to change the order in question. On 14 January 2022, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 14 January 2020 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2020 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2020 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the [[Breathes heavily]] , a week later nothing followed and no one obeyed the Law in this Ministry. There's the question again, the parents are leaving with lawyers again. In this regard, my question is: You, as Prime Minister, will you make your ministers comply with the legislation, even more so when it comes to the health of our children. It's not normal to ask questions from this tribune and not have an answer a month later. I would further point out that the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works has been waiting for a third week for a written reply.............................................................................................. That is why I am asking for this case, which I have described to you, which concerns not one, but many children.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. This is rather a specific issue... on a specific policy that you should perhaps ask in another order. Come in for an answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u100	Thanks for asking. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will get to know the specifics of this issue for children with asthma, and we will see carefully what the regulation is. I am sure that the Minister of Education does everything in his ability the school process for all children with special needs to be done in the best way for them, but I will check this question and return an answer. One thing I would like to say clearly is that people with asthma At the same time, from this highest tribune, I would still like to make an appeal if we increase the level of vaccination, we will be able to reduce the risk for everyone, especially people with asthma, who are at even greater risk of this disease, so my response to you will be specific. We should try to reduce this risk of COVID-19 together, because all of us will not wear masks if we have high levels of vaccination and intensive beds are not busy, and our entire health system is not constantly overbought by the fact that many unvaccinated people enter there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u101	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Ganev, just a moment, because you mentioned Mr. Karadjov, he also wants to take an attitude. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, on this matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u102	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ganev, you asked a question in the order of personal correspondence between the MP and the Minister. There's a month's time. You'll get your answer in time. I wanted to make this clarification because of all the written questions I have received so far, I have strictly respected the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u103	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go, Mr. Ganev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u104	Mr. Prime Minister, you seem to have ignored what I said. Your Minister of Education very clearly and precisely here, after a month of delay, and at the moment the order has not been changed, said yes, the Law is clear and firm. There is a medical opinion written on this, of two independent medical professionals, which clearly and accurately says that these children................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is clear and clear, but nevertheless the Minister does not change the order! Moreover, the minister to date has not dropped this thing to any of the regional inspectorates because children are being chased and not allowed to go to school! This is stated by this tribune yes, we have a violation, but we do nothing and we will do nothing! This is unacceptable! Do you know what the joke is? The same minister informed him from this point that the child was given an alternative. Do you know what to go to school without a mask, but to sit next to an open window, on minus 10o! And that's official! The Director, the Regional Inspectorate, is giving this alternative! And here the minister says: "Yes, the Law releases the child, but they have to. " - Where is the Minister to drop this thing to regional inspectors? Where are you? Behold, from this tribune I say to you: Your ministers must obey the laws! The laws say: these children are released because there is a danger to their lives. Here we do not comment on what is the private case. The case is clear and clear. And the law says, children are in danger if they suffocate because of the mask in question, they die! That's why we have to take care of this whole thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u105	Mr. Ganev, if you please, without such extreme claims, especially when it comes to the lives and health of children. Apart from that, I will allow myself to take attitude, as Minister Denkov was here at parliamentary control and he gave you very detailed answers on this issue, and they were not exactly as you express from this tribune. However, it should not be speculated in one way or another with given answers, with information. Prime Minister, would you like to take the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u106	Thank you. Minister Denkov and I have intensive communication in connection with COVID-19 and school activities. I want to assure you that he was one of the pioneers at all this time in this crisis to be prioritized so that they would not be closed. While you were asking the second question, I already wrote to him to give me precise explanations on this particular case. So we don't have time to waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u107	Thank you, Prime Minister. Are you here for procedure, Mr. Karadayi?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the Deputy Prime Minister! Mr. President, I urge you not to allow calls for the violation of the Constitution and the laws of the country from this platform. We just heard that from Deputy Prime Minister Assen Vassilev. In the previous National Assembly, I had asked a question to the Prime Minister of the Service: on what basis was Decision No 441 "the so-called decision on the basis of which some black lists were created, which today the court declared illegal. However, the Deputy Prime Minister here from this tribune said, without making an impression on any of the MPs, in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria that the laws had not been respected, there was some appropriateness. I understand that there is new morality in these people, new justice and this new justice and new morality are not based on the Constitution and the laws of the country. These people are also breaking today by this tribune the oath they have taken to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country. Apparently, this group of people, I'm going to say, is an alliance to violate the Constitution and the laws of the country. And I will ask you, Mr. Chairman, to make remarks to such people, to interrupt them and to take away their word, because no one can call from this tribune to violate the Constitution and the laws of the country, including that of Mr. Kiril Petkov, including Assen Vassilev! Thank you. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u111	Mr. Vassilev, just a moment to take the attitude. Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you want me to make remarks to... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please, not from the spot, colleagues! You want me to make a remark to the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister not to make accusations that someone broke the laws...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u112	They broke the laws!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u113	...and you just did the same. So I urge absolutely everyone in this House not to make accusations. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] The laws and Constitution of the country should be respected by both the legislative and the executive powers. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to take an attitude. [[(Displays from DPS: This is a procedure, what attitude?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u114	I'll take an attitude, as my name has been mentioned. Mr. Karadayi, I understand that it hurts you very much that the person sitting next to you Mr. Peevski is placed on an international list of sanctions for corruption and for this the Bulgarian state has nothing to do with it. [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u115	Tell me where you worked. Where have you been, you clown?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u116	There is no relation to the Bulgarian state. [[Extreme lines by MP Delyan Peevski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u117	Mr. Peevsky, please, not from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u118	The Bulgarian state has nothing to do with this. What the Bulgarian state should have done and done within the framework of the law is to protect the Bulgarian economy from...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u119	Now we'll see the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u120	That's right, we'll see the law. If you read your decision, it says there should be a national application law.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u121	But there's no law! [[Reply by MP Delyan Peevski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u122	Right here was my call to the National Assembly to pass such a law in order to preserve the Bulgarian economy. [[(Extreme applause) (Extreme applause) (Extreme applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u123	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Peevsky, if you please, I urge you not to make accusations from the scene.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u124	There are no personal charges! [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u125	Are you here for procedure, Mr. Karadayi? Here you go. If you please, the procedure is for me not to exchange lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The lie must be exposed at any time, especially when the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister violate the Constitution and the laws of the country and...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u127	Mr. Karadaye!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u128	...they come out of this tribune to lie! Mr. Chairman, you have my procedure in the manner of conduct. Let me just tell you what this is about. First, Mr. Chairman, let me finish my work in the manner of conduct. There is no international list of administrative sanctions under one law that operates in the territory of the United States of America! And as Mr. Vassilev just said, [[Applause from DPS]] There was no law to apply, and they are now making a bill to apply foreign sanctions. Okay, but this is confirmation that in the absence of law you have broken the laws of the country! Moreover, Mr. President, in order to clarify this picture, I suggest that you take a break until you personally from the Ministry of Justice answer to my question: on what basis has that decision been taken, and from this platform to read the first sentence, claiming that there is no such legal basis! And Minister Vassilev, when he lies [[Applause from DPS]] You of this tribune must make remarks to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u129	Mr. Karadayi, I'm making a remark to you!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u130	So, on behalf of the DPS parliamentary group, I am making a procedural proposal for a break for 15 minutes to take from the Ministry the answer of the minister of the service to my question: on what basis have these decisions been taken, on what basis have the relevant actions that are falling into court today been made, and the court declared them unlawful?! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u131	Colleagues, I don't think this is the one that should happen right now... [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Wait, wait, wait! I don't think that in a blitz-control procedure, Mr. Karadye, we should be doing this kind of thing. Fifteen minutes of rest until 10.50 p.m. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u132	Honourable Members, we shall resume the sitting. Please Deputy Prime Minister Cornelia Ninova and Deputy Prime Minister Borislav Sandov... Here you go, Mr. Sandov. And Mrs. Ninova to be invited to the hall as well. Thank you. Moving on to the second round of questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u133	It's the way it's supposed to be. Three sentences I want to make.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u134	For Stefan Yanev's answer?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u136	We'll get him out. We're not pulling it out right now, it's not subject to blitzcontrol, anyway, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u137	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u138	Here you are, Mr. Karadayi, in the manner of conduct, but there is still little time left from the blitzcontrol, perhaps the better option is to hear as much information as possible within the blitzcontrol. We'll look at Mr. Yanev's answer. You have my assurance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is really very good to hear as many answers and less lies as possible. But all answers must be heard within the framework of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the laws of the country. We have taken such an oath here in this room. We have all sworn, including the ministers, to uphold the Constitution and the laws of the country as they are, even if they do not like us. And those who do not like us have an order in both the Constitution and the Rules, and we make efforts to improve them and change them. But in response to my request of 9 August, the minister of service Mr. Yanev replied that on the occasion of my question on what basis were actions taken in relation to the sanctions imposed by the United States on Bulgarian citizens and Decision No 441 of 4 June was taken, Prime Minister Yanev then replied: "The applicable national regulations are not available, there is no, that is, in violation of the Constitution and the laws of the country. And that's precisely why today we see the decisions of the court that cancel those illegal acts of these people that we see here. And therefore, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Mr. President, calls for a violation of the Constitution and the laws of the country and to apply some other justice outside the Constitution and outside the laws, it seems to me that it resembles something of the likeness of the Tsar Kirova State. [[(Noise and lines from..) We continue the Change........................................)]] Bulgaria is still a parliamentary republic and has an active Constitution and it doesn't matter which one of us...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u140	The weather, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u142	And thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]] Question from the Parliamentary Group Continue Changing is there? No question. On behalf of GERB-SDS? Alexander Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u143	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen and ladies Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Colleagues, long and irrigation over the last 10 months, a topic has been discussed in society, in the media, without, unfortunately, sticking to the facts and the legality of certain claims. So I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov and I would like a brief and precise answer. So my question, Mr. Karadjov, is: is the construction of the motorway of Hemus, Lot 1, 2 and 3, and is there payments for concluded inhouse contracts from the management of GERB? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u144	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Karadjov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u145	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I have repeatedly stated, I will state it today: the In House contracts concluded by the previous regular government are illegal. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Are they...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u146	Mr. Chairman, remind me who announced these two months ago... And who said what was legal and what wasn't... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u147	Mr. Karadaye, please! Here you are, Mr. Karadjov, for an exhibition of the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u148	I stick to the legal justification and I'll explain why they're illegal. Thank you for reminding me. This is not a qualification, this is a legal analysis that I have read, including the Legal Directorate of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u149	And the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u150	We'll get to court. The In House procedures are either petty or destructive, which, let's say, lawyers are still arguing. From there is also the controversial legal effect that would have had their eventual destruction, or if they had been insignificant from the very beginning. Although they have been concluded in the absence of any technical possibility of doing more than 80% of the real construction works, the Public Procurement Act has thus been circumvented. And once there is a circumvention of the Law, the legal action that has been carried out is also illegal. With regard to whether the work on these first sections of the highway continues, it has never stopped. In fact, during the past year, construction has been carried out on these contracts, albeit insignificant or destructive...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u151	Whoa! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u152	That's right. " Whether contracts are null or destructive, they have a legal effect. And this legal effect must be implemented. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] What's been done this past year has been signed before me. In this sense, an obligation has been raised by the Agency In this sense, the answer to your question is this: the illegal contracts concluded by the previous regular government for the In House contract were carried out in the past 2021, which is why on 22 December the Road Infrastructure Agency (RF) paid off the active and actual works carried out on the highway. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u153	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Mr. Ivanov for a line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen and ladies Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Karadjov, I'm shocked by your answer. You have either just incriminated yourself by saying that, in your view, under illegal contracts, you continue to make payments because, if they are insignificant, they may also be requested to be terminated by the interested party, and this is the Ministry of Regional Development, the Road Infrastructure Agency. Unfortunately, you did not respond in a way in which we expected the whole society to hear that the inhouse procedure, which is consistent and there is not a single remark from the European Commission, is in line with the Bulgarian Public Procurement Act, which contains the implementation and implementation of the In House procedure, which is European procedure and practice, the Bulgarian law is in line with Directive 2014/24 of the European Union and this is such a practice that is conducted throughout Europe, not to mention the world, because we are part of the European Union. You, Mr. Karadjov, said that construction continues, that payments continue and according to what you said was illegal, you are incriminating yourself. I couldn't understand why you didn't give such an answer or are placed in the uncomfortable position, which is more likely for me to continue the thesis of some election agitators today are not here, they are members of the Council of Ministers, there are some of them, forgive me, in the Chamber who mentioned that this was the the theft of the century. So with your claim and what you have not denied that you continue to pay for continuing the execution and construction of the highway. "Hemus" under these inhouse procedures, you have stated that you are an accessory to the crime of the century, and your Council of Ministers. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u155	Here you go, Mr. Karadjov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reply you gave me contained the answer to your question. You said very well that until they were proclaimed insignificant or destructive, they were operating contracts. Therefore, anyone who is going to break these contracts, and perhaps you are concerned about the state interest, I am sure that out of concern for the state interest, for the national interest and for the state budget you are asking me these questions, you are afraid that I will not pay, to fulfill these contracts and the state interest to lose 15% penalties. I'm sure you're guided by these patriotic motives. [[(Applause) (Applause) (Applause)]] , with the same motives with which these contracts have been concluded, and all the clauses in there are in favour of the performers.. 35% advances and 15% penalties for the state. So don't push me so gently, gently to the precipice that you dug. I'm not going to slip and I'm not going in that trap at all. Yeah, I keep running these contracts because it's the right thing to do, it's legal. [[(Applause) (Applause) (Applause) (Applause) (Applause) (Applause) (Applause)]] Illegal contracts take effect and we carry it out. On the other hand, you may want to end these contracts and the state to lose once, you want to lose the advances that were made on them, and also, i.e. 50% out of four billion to lose them because someone irresponsiblely put their signature on a few years ago. That's never gonna happen. [[(Shouting) Bravo! We are continuing the Change and the BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u157	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. [[National Representative Hamid Hamid wants the floor.]] One second, Mr. Hamid. Dear colleagues, since two hours have passed since the beginning of the meeting... [[Reply from DPS: "There is rest! "]] There's a break, yes, that's why the meeting will be held until 2:15. [[Reply from DPS: "Towards blitzcontrol! "]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Article 104 says: "In the first two hours of the meeting. The hearing started two hours ago, Mr. Hamid, so it's adjourned. Blitzcontrol is over due to running out of time. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] With this, the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers are free. Thank you for your participation. Mr. Vasilev, we'll start with you in a few minutes. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Karadjov said a lot of things from this tribune, only he, as an alumni of the Law Faculty... [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" What is this procedure? "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u159	To me, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u160	...you should have interrupted him at least, Mr. Chairman. [[(Clattering at banks from.. We continue the ……]] Mr. Karadjov is an alumni of the Law Faculty and he, if he sees the bankruptcy of the contracts, was at least obliged to say as a good owner of the state what legal actions he had taken to end these contracts Mr. Karadjov. You could also, Mr. Chairman, ask Mr. Karadjov, if there is such a break in the bankruptcy of the contracts, then the state does not owe any penalty. So it was nice when Mr. Karadjov gave the full answer, first of all, I say again, to me the most satisfying thing I heard is that the construction of the highway. "Hemus" because it is important for the Bulgarian citizens, for the business and for the whole of Northern Bulgaria. That was the important thing, and the other thing Mr. Karadjov said created more questions than answers. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u161	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Was this procedure or expression of attitude essentially? [[Noise and lines.]] Here you are, Minister. You're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u162	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You said very well what legal action we would take. The legal actions to be taken are well above my head in quotes, if you can imagine the role of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. They are the legal actions of the entire government and are legal actions that need to be thought through very carefully, and this is being worked out because they include a criminal part equal to a civil unit. There we work very seriously and when these risks to the Bulgarian national interest are defined, in which we have entered, thanks to these contracts, when we are told exactly the way by the elite lawyers of Bulgaria who can advise us how to get out of the trap, which is set in the past, then we will bring them to the National Assembly. And I have repeatedly stated that the knot will be untied here with you, the MPs, because these illegal contracts can only be fixed here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u163	By procedure there is a desire... in the manner of conduct. Yes, of course, Mr. Karadayi, come in. Desislava Atanasova, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To make use of it while Minister Karadjov is here, to inform him as well. Maybe he doesn't know. The most important part on this topic, Mr. Minister, is within the competence of the National Assembly, because MPs from the Ministry of Rights and Freedoms have introduced a bill for annulment of the In House procedures and this bill should rather be considered in order not to be embarrassed to explain yourself here, from this tribune. And to you, Minister, another topic. It is not good for this tribune of MPs and ministers to declare what is legal, what is illegal, who is a criminal and who is not a criminal. Because we witnessed this thing 12 years ago, a minister announced what is legal and what is not, who is a criminal and who is not, and we reached the European Court of Human Rights and Bulgaria received judgment for this thing. So I would ask you, Mr. Minister and Mr. Chairman, that we still respect the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, where the separation of the authorities is envisaged, there are authorities who say what is legal, what is not legal and what is not a crime, what is not a crime. However, when we point out specific texts that ministers violate relevant members and Mr President, and you personally, you are going to the hypothesis of art. 5, para. 2 A systematic failure to fulfil your duties, so be a little more careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u165	And we thank you for the procedure in the manner of conduct. Let's hear Mrs. Atanasova's procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct as well. And it concerns the ruling of sentences by this tribune or the proclamation of various acts adopted by the National Assembly, either by the Council of Ministers, as illegal or as insignificant. It is good that Lord Karadjov is in the hall to hear perhaps a clarification. The clarification is as follows: The Public Procurement Act in its article. 6 says how a certain type of public procurement is awarded, the so-called inhouse award. Moreover, Directive 2014/24 of the European Union in its art. Art. 12 and respectively 14 does the same thing. In this sense, the declaration of nullity of certain acts, including those of the European Union, I believe that it goes very, very far beyond the limits and powers of the activities of members of the Council of Ministers. It has become clear that the current government is paying under these contracts, the current government is operating and operating under these contracts. In this sense, it is much better, Mr. Minister, if you want a declaration of nullity, as a good owner to make it a declaration of nullity of certain acts and contracts is requested by the Bulgarian court, as the Bulgarian court has declared the decisions of the Council of Ministers on the list of Magnitski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Here the last procedures have rather turned into a follow-up of the discussion from a while ago, so maybe we should stop. Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u168	I've got procedure. Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. So far we've been listening to GERB's personal dramas. Apparently their interest in the Inhouse procedures and related public resources, circles of companies implementing them are colossal. I understand them, I don't understand you why you don't take away their word when you share their personal dramas during blitzcontrol, which has quite another idea, purpose and subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u169	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. With this, perhaps we should conclude the continuation of the discussion by the blitzcontrol and move on to regular parliamentary control. We're moving on to PARLIAMENT CONTROL: Members of Parliament, written answers to questions and questions have been received for the period from 28 January 2022 to 3 February 2022 as follows: - from Minister Aleksandar Nikolov to two questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - by Minister Asena Serbenova to a question from the National Representative Guner Ahmed and two questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - from Minister Atanas Atanasov to two questions from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmedov; to four questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from the National Representative Hristo Ivanov; - from Minister Bozidar Bojanov to a question from the National Representative Blagovest Kirilov and two questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - from Minister Boyko Rashkov to four questions from the MP Nikolina Angelkova; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Environment and Water Borislav Sandov to a question from the MPs Alexander Dunchev, Tsvetelina Simeonova-Zarkin, Miroslava Petrova and Zornitsa Stratieva; to a question from the MP Vladislav Panev; to two questions from the MP Denitsa Nikolova; to a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; to four questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - from Minister Georgi Gokov to three questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadzhov to two questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; to a question from the National Representative Petar Kanev; - from Minister Daniel Lorre to four questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - from Minister Ivan Ivanov to a question from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev; to a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; to three questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - from Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova to three questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from the National Representative Stoyan Taslakov; - from Prime Minister Kiril Petkov to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; to two questions from the MP Nikolina Angelkova; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Cornelia Ninova of four questions by the MP Nikolina Angelkova; - from Minister Nadezhda Yordanova to a question from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov; to a question from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - from Minister Nikolay Denkov to a question from the National Representative Elisaveta Belobradova; to four questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - by Minister Nikolay Sabev to a question from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; to a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; to a question from the National Representative Kostadin Stoykov and to three questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - from Minister Radostin Vassilev to four questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - from Minister Stefan Yanev to four questions from the MP Nikolina Angelkova; - from Minister Hristo Prodanov to three questions from the MP Nikolina Angelkova. Today's parliamentary control starts with debates on the questioning of the MP Hristo Gajev to the Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev on the role of the Ministry of Defence in protecting the state border and maintaining the security infrastructure. On that inquirer. No 47-154-06-8 of 14 December 2021 was responsible for the meeting on 28 January 2022, Friday. At the same meeting, 59 MPs from GERB-SDS parliamentary group submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with a draft decision. The debates are directed by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 28 January 2022, Friday. The submitted draft decision to be voted on is a draft decision submitted by 59 MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, vh. No 47-254-00-13 of 28 January 2022, registered at 13.25 I give the floor to one of the importers. Here you are, Mr. Gadget, to develop the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u170	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in the course of the question I asked you last Friday about the state and spending funds for protection of the Bulgarian border in a possible migratory wave. Now a little bit of history. During a meeting of the Forty-sixth National Assembly, even at the National Security Advisory Council, the issue of Bulgaria's readiness was discussed and the measures that the government should then accept as a possible reception of such a wave, as well as for repair and other activities related to strengthening the protection of the Bulgarian-Turkish border by Bulgaria. Within your answer, you correctly said what the Ministry of Defense had done. The activities themselves are not only from the Ministry of Defense. By the way, when voting on the update of the State Budget Act for 2021, some of the main costs that we made, one of the main things that we did then, was a vote on funds just to meet this wave. I must point out that at that time we even reached unanimity in this House. One of the few cases that have occurred when all the parliamentary groups have reached a consensus, not a consensus, but a consensus. Even the proposals for these costs have been tabled by all the parliamentary groups, which should be noted because it is important and so done when they are national security issues. Apart from the State Budget Act, we have provided expenditure and I will allow myself to read them: ............................................... 16 Costs up to 60 million And 516 thousand. lv. to ensure the operation of the departments under enhanced migration pressure, as follows: for the Ministry of Defence, 20 million And 200,000. lv.; for the Ministry of Internal Affairs.. 37 million; State Agency for Refugees.. 695 thousand. lv.; State Agency "National Security".......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And 121,000. lv.; Ministry of Foreign Affairs, half a million. Also 5 million to carry out repair and reconstruction activities on the engineering facility of obstruction type and increase the capital costs of the Ministry of Defence up to 5 million to restore the readiness to use and upgrade the capabilities for remote-controlled flight system planned for aerial surveillance of the border area of the Republic of Bulgaria. These are the texts of the State Budget Act as adopted. For us, and I suppose, and for everyone in this House, it is important what happened after the adoption of the amendments to the State Budget Act and the extent to which the Council of Ministers has fulfilled its tasks, because in the answer you said that in the months of October, November and December there were activities, the extent to which it was completed and how the funds were spent. If there are funds that have failed to be spent, what is the policy of both the official and the regular government, I say in quotes, their transfer to the budget for 2022? At least in the Department of Defense, the costs are important because they concern both the upgrade of the capabilities of an unmanned aircraft and the capital-repair repair of one of our combat helicopters. It is nice if these costs are provided for this year, and as far as I understand from your reply, they remained unused for last year. In this regard, because it comes out of the competence of only one ministry, and it is really from the competence of several ministries and the Council of Ministers itself, we have made a proposal for a decision to submit a report to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers, which will include two main things. One is the state-of-the-art state of an impeding facility along the Bulgarian-Turkish border and the accompanying infrastructure in order to know what the current state is, should we provide for additional funds in the State Budget Act 2022. If there are unfulfilled activities and the related expenditures carried out in fulfillment of the points which I read from the State Budget Act, how much are they implemented, how much are there costs that are foreseen but transferred for this year? To know if there is something we need to take as a National Assembly to ensure the security of the Bulgarian border and the capacity of the different services. We have, for a reason, given a 14-day deadline for submitting this report so that it can enter into the debates during the State Budget Act. That is, if there are measures that require financial resources, to be able to be taken between the two readings of the State Budget Act and so, as we have agreed in the front parliaments on this subject, to achieve now and to secure the state financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u171	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Before I open the discussion, I would like to mention the time that each of the parliamentary groups has in this debate: the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group of the I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of Defense, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! To be honest, I do not particularly understand the meaning of today's debate and I was quite hesitant whether it was worth the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria to be involved in this, literally for me, wasting time of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues from GERB, the questions you are asking today to the Minister and, in particular, in the Draft Decision, are already answered by Minister Yanev on 28 January in this Chamber. This also sounded in Mr. Gajev's statement, but I will remind briefly of colleagues who were not in the Chamber at the time. The inclusion of soldiers from the Bulgarian Army in the procedures for the restoration of the destroyed sections of the security facility... within 50 km total length in the section of Svilengrad and Elhovo, with remounted fallen panels, about 350 " 380" in number, approximately 27 thousand. kv. m clean vegetation on both sides of the facility, adding about 5 km of new enclosure wire, repairing infrastructure and approach roads around 50 km along with drainage channels and additional repair activities, i.e. one part of question two in the Project Decision has already been answered. I understand the concern of colleagues with regard to the value of projects carried out, it is commendable. And it would have been even more commendable if you had shown the same concern about five years ago when hundreds of millions of state resources were poured into building this fence with apparent poor functionality, ineffective functionality. This topic will not be opened, colleagues, this topic is in my opinion for the prosecution, but will it only remind me of a million per kilometer of wire?! If it were gold wire, it'd be cheaper. How did it happen? Special amendments to the Public Procurement Act were adopted which allowed to avoid competitions. They qualify the facility as an object of national security which allowed the construction procedure to happen outside the general order provided for by the law. I will not talk about this because, if I start to talk, I should also recall the way in which these orders were awarded by the district managers, the contractors, the subcontractors, the collapsed walls at the first........ unexpectedly strong rains in the region of Malko Tarnovo at the end of September. That's a quote. I will not speak, because if I do, I must remind you that it was the activists of one of the then ruling parties involved in the process of building this wall that these activists were caught in trafficking of migrants who went through this fence unhindered. That's why you couldn't talk and write, because the government declared the fence a national security object. Shortly before that, pictures appeared on the social networks, which showed that the ground under the fence in the region of Malko Tarnovo had fallen and huge holes were opened that allowed the passage of large groups of people. According to the decision, however, the dissemination of information and footage from the facility, which price exceeded, I recall, 140 million. BGN, which is not really lost, they are put away somewhere that money taken from someone, is made a completely dysfunctional fence through which he has not decided, he has not passed. Traffickers were transporting illegal immigrants and Serbs with police and army couldn't gather them all these migrants, where the fence supposedly stopped them then. The power then took measures the fence was declared a strategic object of national security importance. Why did you make that decision then? Couldn't have done it sooner. Because as long as the facility is being built, everything can be known, but when it's done, then we've already classified the information on it. Colleagues, that's when you sealed her off, and now you're asking, but I'm saying, it's right to ask. The information for each spent government lev must be public. That is why we from BSP for Bulgaria and will support the Draft Decision by making an editorial proposal that the deadline for implementation by the Council of Ministers should be extended to one month, as there is a need for further coordination between different departments. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u173	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. The editorial proposal is: the operative after the decision: assigns to the Council of Ministers within 14 days. Thank you. A line? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u174	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zafirov, you did not speak and did not mention, as I will not answer, the way and the prices at which the fence facility was launched 2013 - 2014 at the time of the Oresharski office. And I'm not going to answer you then, because there were signals to the D.A., and there the D.A. was also investigating. In the end, who has doubts about irregularities or violations, always knows what to do, namely signal the competent authorities. I will also not answer for the 140 migrants caught since the beginning of the year, because if we talk this way, it will turn out that there is a similar problem at the moment if we have to combine the two things that the protective facility does not work and migrants go. So you shouldn't mix some of the stuff, because at least you know more about it as a specialist. And I must emphasise separately that, indeed, part of the answer was received, and in the exposé itself I explained: it does not only concern the Ministry of Defence, but it concerns many other institutions: the Ministry of Interior, several state agencies, so it is nice to get the general picture so that we know what the situation is. After all, I really think this is national responsibility. And as far as the term goes, well, let's extend the period to one month if they can't be ready. This means that we will miss the opportunities in the State Budget Act, and anyway, as I see it, we will make a budget every three months, so for the update in June there will definitely be an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u175	Thank you. There's a line from Tsoncho Ganev - come in, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u176	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Zafirov! It is also nice that you pointed out the management of GERB that they were making the facility in question, to mention their coalition partners from VMRO and NFSB, because it was they and their entire formation, which was brought out in the media, were actively involved in the construction of this fence, which started and ended in the middle of nowhere and separately, that fell into many sections. Separately, let everyone be responsible because companies close to these two parties, as such information came out, were involved in the construction and they were most likely taking some... not only GERB, but also those parties, six years involved actively in the management of this country. Shame and shame that these parties did this thing, but in the end we see that the prosecution didn't bring any of them to justice, to point out those who were arrested for trafficking illegally entering our territory, again prominent functionaries of NFSB. It is important to point out these things, as we must not forget the names of national traitors.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u177	Mr. Ganev, please don't qualify people who aren't here to defend themselves. Is there a third line? No. Here you go, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u178	Dear Mr. Gazhev, you are right that the construction started in 2013, and thank you for reminding me in this room because you give me the opportunity to remind me that then one kilometer of the facility in question cost 250 thousand. lv. In other words, four times less than the price achieved in 2017 of 1 million. However, I remind you that this is what the Bulgarian Army was doing at the time. I believe that in the new approach that has now been taken with regard to the maintenance and rehabilitation of the facility, it will become clear that this is the right approach. I hope this will also become clear from the defence minister's exhibition. You say they're coming in now. Well, they're coming in. This shows once again the inefficiency of this facility at all and as a design, not only as a performance. It's a way of performing, but it's also a way of designing. Mr. Ganev, I said in my article that this was related to a party from the previous government, from the coalition. I have said and continue to believe that this is not a conversation about the National Assembly's stand. This is a conversation for the D.A.'s office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u179	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Anybody else want to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u180	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! ARCHIVENESS will support this draft decision. It will support it together with the supplement proposed to extend the deadline. However, we believe that it is a little away from the real problems that lie ahead of us. The facility itself, albeit insanely expensive, is only part of the security of our border. Only part of the duty of the Ministry of Defence is to defend the border against this invasion that we had and is currently continuing, albeit at a modest pace. It is the army's calling to protect the country from other armies, from other organized invasions. Security issues should be posed rather to the Ministry of Interior and to the services. The people of Malko Tarnovo know where the canals are, know where the paths they pass through and continue to pass all kinds of refugees in quotes. Refugees who are taken care of here by the relevant NGOs. Rather, we should call them anti-government organisations that are funded from outside and have vague goals and intentions. We believe that the main problems must be different. They should be addressed to other services and seek protection from this type of invasion across the national border not so much in the activities of the Ministry of Defence as in the activities of the Ministry of Interior and the relevant services. Of course, we will support the project because we believe that there should be transparency, we need to know what is being built and how the money is being spent, but the addressee thinks that to the least extent is being addressed to the Ministry of Defence. Also, this restraining engineering facility is only one of the protection elements. There are much more modern elements. These are the drones, these are the helicopter surveillance and all the aerial surveillance, and with all the means of aviation, so there's something to be done. There is a way in which the Ministry of Defense can defend the border, but the invasion itself, from which it is essentially called to defend, is of a completely different type and with quite different means. The way we ask and ask the question: the Ministry of Defense to protect the border from an invasion from some refugees is a bit like shooting a cannon at sparrows. Not exactly in the way it should be done, but, nevertheless, given the huge cost of this facility, which is proportionate to the costs we have incurred for aviation and any other costs, we believe that it must be supported and it must be made clear how the money has been spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u181	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Are there any lines to Mr. Drenchev? Mr. Zafirov, come in for a line. I would like to inform you that the time of the group of adults is over, but Mr. Drenchev, the opportunity for the duplicate you will have, as it does not enter in time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u182	I don't think he's gonna need the back. Mr. Drenchev, just to clarify that in fact the draft decision is written: supposes the Council of Ministers and not the Ministry of Defence. That is why I asked for a longer deadline so that the necessary coordination between the two departments can be made. The Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Council of Ministers can work out this reference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u183	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Is there another line? I won't. Mr. Drenchev, do you want a jacket? No. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Just to clarify to the room and Mr. Zafirov. It's not $250,000. lv. per kilometer, as Mr. Zafirov is trying to manipulate, and there are 450 thousand of them, which they did 2013 - 2014, and this, note, without the road infrastructure. But it's okay when you speak from this high tribune to specify. The funds that are currently being spent for Elhovo, as said by the colleague, Mr. Minister, know very well, are being spent for the facility, which is being made 2013 - 2014 by the Oresharski government. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u185	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines to Dimitar Ivanov? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I am putting an end to the debate in the absence of those who wish to speak. Honourable Members, we are going to vote. First of all, I put to the vote the editorial proposal of the National Representative Atanas Zafirov in the Draft Decision, in the operative part, to extend the period of 14 days to one month. Colleagues online. Vladislav Panev? Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u187	Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u189	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u191	Peter Chobanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u193	They voted 161 MPs in the House and 4 online " 165" total: 161 in the House and 4 online " 165" total, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the text by importer in accordance with the already adopted editorial proposal. Now I'm gonna read all of it. Project! DECISION concerning the debates on the request of the MP Hristo Gazhev to the Minister of Defence on the role of the Ministry of Defence in protecting the state border and maintaining the security infrastructure The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Instructs the Council of Ministers within one month of the date of that decision to submit to the National Assembly a report containing detailed information on: - the current condition of an engineering facility of obstruction type along the Bulgarian-Turkish border and its accompanying infrastructure; - the activities carried out and the related expenditure in implementation of art. 1, para. 5, t. 16, p. 18 and so on. 19 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 Please vote on the draft decision. Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u195	Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u197	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u199	And Peter Chobanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u201	Vote 162 MPs in the House and 4 online " 166" total: 162 in the Chamber and 4 online " 166" total, no objection and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u202	Can we take a break on behalf of the parliamentary group for 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u203	Okay, 15 minutes rest at the request of GERB-SDS parliamentary group. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. We move on to questions and questions. The first question to the Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and Finance Minister Asen Vassilev is from the MP Rositsa Kirova. I don't see Rossica Kirova in the hall. We move on to the second issue, which is from the MP Martin Dimitrov on the actual functioning of automated measuring instruments for the producers of alcohol and cigarettes. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u205	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vassilev, you have raised the subject yourself that a key reform must be made to focus on the large companies, not to do what is easier for them to pursue the hairdressers, you said I would add the sellers in the markets. This reform is extremely important. In this regard, I have a very specific question for you, because in order for this to happen, a series of measures are needed. Firstly, these administrations and control bodies must see that this is both the policy of Parliament and the government and that the current practice of chasing small traders, because it is the easiest, and to leave large companies out of control, must be stopped. Years ago, Mr. Vassilev, a group of right-wing MPs returned the controls to the excise warehouses for oil products. And that was a great success for us. However, notice, a little later we suggested that there be the same for producers of alcohol and cigarettes. The text mine, it is in the Law on excise and tax warehouses and is art. 4 t. However, to our great surprise, then the then Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov asked for a petition, it was written in the Law, it is § 9a. It is simple for all of you, colleagues, to have consent of the European Commission. I asked him many times: okay, did you want this consent? And do you know what he said to me about something unique? He said: "Mr. Dimitrov, and I have this here as a written answer, we cannot request a notification or consent from the European Commission, because this should have happened before the Law was adopted. "And then I asked him repeatedly: okay, there are or there are no controls on an automated base that give automatic data in the customs for the producers of alcohol and cigarettes? This should have been there since 2015, and he never gave a firm answer to that question. So I waited years for another finance minister to come. And already in constant quality, now is the time to ask you: are there these automated controls that we have recorded in the Law on Cigarettes and Alcohol, which we should be sending to customs in real time information what is happening and that they can on this basis carry out a very serious control of large companies, which is the reform that we all want to see with our eyes? The other important question. It should have been there since 2015. If there are them now, but they are introduced much later, it is also important, Mr. Vassilev, that we understand it. Because those people that we've put in this control and who didn't happen immediately, if there was any delay, we want to know. If you do not have an answer now, it is not a problem to tell me further, but it is important to know when this control has happened, when it has become effective and with precisely such measures we will make the key reform the focus of control to be on large companies. Not that the cubs should be left unattended, but the focus where the biggest risk to the budget is, the greatest risk of non-payment of taxes, should begin the efforts for checks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u206	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u207	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov, for the question. The short answer is no, there are no such controls. The reason is that the Ministry has met a moment only, precisely to see difficulties in submitting the notification, as these are complex systems. [[reading documents]] Thank you for paying attention to this matter. I'm hoping to give you a different answer in about a month. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u208	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Here's a line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u209	Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer, but you understand that because of such things what happened. We have agreed to have an enhanced control mechanism, however, because of a formality that we need the consent of the European Commission, notice, seven years this enhanced control mechanism is gone. Well, how do you expect there to be a good tax collection? How do you expect people in Bulgaria to see justice and say so: we small business pursue us every day or, as Mr. Vasilev said, hairdressers are subject to constant control, and for large companies, you see, seven years the text that we have adopted and which would lead to online constant control by customs to producers of alcohol and cigarettes is gone. And what will people say? Where's the justice? Mr. Vassilev, we rely on you to do what is not done for seven years as soon as possible. It's part of the big reform. Indeed, the control to be focused on large companies, for others too, of course, must have supervision, but the focus, the greatest efforts must be there. And I'll ask you again in a month or two. I hope this work that others haven't done in seven years because they didn't want to do it, you have no doubt, that's why it's not over. I have asked this Minister Goranov three or four times on this topic: why the control mechanism that we have introduced is gone and not working. And all kinds of enigmatic explanations I've heard. So we're counting on you in a month or two to say that in terms of the state starting to control the big ones and there being the focus, something significant has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u210	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. We move on to the next question, which is from the National Representative Rositsa Kirova about the intention to use geothermal sources for the production of electricity.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u211	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vassilev, colleagues! My question relates to a statement you made during the blitzcontrol in early January. It was about a question asked about the ways and specific commitments that you have made to the European Commission on the Recovery and Sustainability Plan in terms of diversification of energy sources. My question arises from the following: in light of the circumstances for some time, I have been examining the possibilities for using mineral springs in the territory of the country and in the region where I am a member so that they have maximum effect on the economy of both the region and our country, of course, and that we can derive maximum benefits. My meetings with many experts, like representatives of the Association of Mineral Waters, professors from the departments who deal with this thing, researchers and, of course, information I received from the Ministry of Environment and Water in relation to the available geothermal springs in the territory of the state, indicate that the use for electricity production of this resource would be extremely inappropriate and ineffective. Although this exotic idea has been in the public domain for many years and many governments at the beginning and many ministers are beginning to speak quite inspiredly on this subject, the result is usually zero for a very simple reason. And I will conclude my question. The temperature of geothermal waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is low. They're low, medium and high-temperature. For the production of electricity they must at least be medium temperature, or at least be in the range of 90 degrees up.. we are talking about medium temperature. Another thing that is a widespread delusion we have many geothermal sources, but most of them are thermomineral with mineral properties. They can be used for healing balneoceles and do not have such a temperature that is sufficient, and such a flow, of course, to be able to give the necessary electrical energy when removing 15 degrees to justify the use of the resource for their disclosure. In this regard, it was my question: what are the sources that have submitted this information to you, and have you done a data check and are you providing for one from now on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u213	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Yeah, we did a background check. Talks are conducted not only with Professor Shterev, whom you are most likely also talking to, but also at the end of December we invited two of the companies that have built the most such facilities -- one 350 megawatts, the other 300 megawatts on Turkey's territory -- which looked at some of the existing drilling andmorphological maps that we have, and geological maps. What they said is that specifically in southern Bulgaria the structure is extremely close to the structure of Turkey, the temperatures that you are quoting are for shallow drillings of the order of 800 to 1000 m. The probes in Turkey with similar geology are of the order of 2000. 3000 m where temperatures are significantly higher and even there have allowed not only binary technologies, i.e. to take a lower temperature, have allowed direct use of geothermal energy for electricity production. As you know, Turkey has a very similar geology, managed to make 1800 megawatts. Separately in Northern Bulgaria, we have a very different geology, which is unique for the region with us, Romania and Serbia, where, as you know, there are several water layers that have a high level of salinity that are not well investigated. But based on them, for example, in the late 1980s, greenhouses were made, heating was made, thermal use of the water was made, although not electric then, as you know, and binary technologies were not developed. What is at stake in the Recovery Plan, you will see, as we said, is also going out to public discussion, is a rather large-scale survey of the country and the resources with enough deep drilling to see what the resource is. For the time being, what we have identified is six or seven places where temperatures above 90 degrees are expected to be reached that can be used for electricity production.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u214	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u215	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Vassilev. Bulgaria is rich in thermal waters and there is no dispute in that. Our geothermal resources, however, include all types of water with a temperature above 20 degrees. And this usually includes groundwater at a depth of up to 4500 meters. These waters in other countries are not included anywhere in the mineral and thermal waters of base analysis. Eastern Turkey has high temperature waters that have nothing to do with the availability of geothermal resources in Bulgaria. However, they are located in a tectonic and seismic zone, and we all know how many earthquakes there are in Turkey. The springs used to produce electricity in Turkey and removed this high water temperature are along the Anadolu fault. It can't be compared and it shouldn't be, it's wrong, and I'm extremely concerned about those who have given you information. I used Professor Pavel Penchev some of the information, but not all of it, of course. So the evaluated geothermal resources currently in Bulgaria are 100 megawatts maximum. I'll give you the following data, you can check them out, they're easily accessible. In Northern Bulgaria there are 11 fields above 45 degrees with a total flow rate of 800 liters per second. Their average temperature is 64 degrees. In southern Bulgaria, however, there are 43 fields, their total flow rate, however, is 760 liters per second and their average temperature is 58 degrees. With a decrease of 15 degrees and optimal conditions and with maximum investment maximum we can get 100 megawatts. Therefore, my recommendation I thank you for your response.. and I hope, of course, that you will do an additional analysis, do not trust only what was originally presented to you is to invest in the revelation of those thermomineral waters that can be used for healing purposes and will have a much greater effect on the economy of both regions and the country than if we lower by 15 degrees geothermal waters and get the 100 megawatts in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Vassilev? We move on to the next question to Asen Vassilev, who is from the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova on additional remuneration for the employees in the NRA at the end of 2021. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, for the development of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Vassilev, a month ago from the information provided by the ADA, announced in the media, it became clear that the National Revenue Agency gave additional remuneration to the employees at the end of 2021. My question is as follows: what is the amount of the additional amounts paid for remuneration and what is the amount of the additional amounts paid to the National Revenue Agency's Central Management, relevant to the average statistic composition in the Central Management of the NRA? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u219	Thank you for the question, Mrs. Atanasova. In total, the amount for the NRA is 31 million. Eight hundred and forty-four thousand. And 300 leva. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. And 300,000. lv.; 2019 was 30 million. And 150,000. lv. This money is allocated to 7863 employees, or this is an average of BGN 337. to an employee a month. For Central Government, the amount is 10 million. 631 thousand. And BGN 443. 1714 employees, which is an average of BGN 517. to an employee a month. As you know, these funds are provided each year by the Budget Act, they are distributed in the form of the DMS and form part of the remuneration, which is calculated and carried out for the real work that people have managed to do. If there are any further questions, we're available. I can give it to you in writing if you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u220	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. For a line, Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Vassilev, for the comprehensive response and the comparative analysis you have done. I've never been against stimulating, financially stimulating employees when they do their job well, even on the contrary. It is apparent from the reference provided by you that in 2019 and 2020 amounts have also been paid by two million less than now. I am rather surprised by the applause from part of the hall, because in 2019 I remember that Mr. Ivanov "Hristo Ivanov," in direct inclusions in front of the building of the NRA wanted the resignation of the Director of the NRA precisely on the same occasion. In this sense, as an additional question or reply, do you think that now the Director of the NRA should also resign, since again for merit or for results financial incentives have been given to employees and how do you explain the behaviour of a member of the ruling majority? Otherwise, I am impressed by an answer to a written question from another colleague, whom you have answered that for the second and third quarter only the management of the National Revenue Agency, i.e. the Director and two alternates, respectively, received 28 thousand. And 250 leva. And 38,000. and 200 BGN, and that wouldn't be bad news, given that the NRA really focuses on the collection rate, there is an overexecution of the state budget and revenues respectively and you don't have to draw almost every week a new debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u222	Here you are, Mr. Vassilev. Let Mr. Vassilev go first. Take it easy, guys. Quiet in the room and no waving. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u223	Thank you for the support expressed for the need to pay for the results I fully agree with this philosophy. The results the NRA achieved last year are record-breaking in the agency's history. [[(Extreme applause) (Extreme applause) (Extreme applause)]] In seven months, not even for the whole, the Agency has managed to raise significantly more funds. We are talking about more than 3 billion more, and in total, together with the NRA, customs and all proceeds in the country, we are talking about revenues from over 8 more compared to 2020. Only to say that when I entered as minister of service, what I found was collection precisely according to plan, that is, the majority of this happened in the next 7 months. [[Replys: "Inflation. "]] Inflation knows when it happened November and December. About the other important thing you said about borrowing each week, well, I can tell you that this year loans have not been drawn. The other thing I can tell you is that the credit that was drawn last year is 800 million less than what you had planned in your budget without the update, which additionally gave 2 and a half billion to all Bulgarian companies and citizens. [[bourn applause from.. We continue the Change..]] The loan that is planned to be withdrawn this year is smaller than the loan that was planned last year by removing the 3 billion that are for refinancing existing debt, i.e. this year is foreseen 4.3, last year were 4.5. If you look at the mid-term programme that has been adopted with the budget that you have adopted for last year, it says that this year's debt to GDP at the end of 2022 should be 27.2%. The budget that we are importing, the debt to GDP will be 24,8%, that is, almost 3% less, on the one hand, and on the other hand you are saying that the budget was wasteful, bankrupt and I do not know what else, i.e. with less debt than you predicted last year, we will be able to make much more capital investments, we will be able to make investments in health care, in education, in the social sphere of a much larger amount and all this is due precisely to better collection and stopping leaks. Unfortunately, we haven't stopped all of them, but we're moving forward and we're gonna stop them. [[Replyes: "Bravo!" and long applause by "We continue the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u224	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Come in as per procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u225	Mr. Chairman, there is no way, but because Mrs. Atanasova asked the Deputy Prime Minister to comment on my behaviour, if I may answer it. Mrs. Atanasova, you have a good memory, but slightly selective. These statements were in the context not only of stimulating the administration, which, as you yourself said, when there are results, is commendable and good. That's right. But the results we were talking about at the time were, for example, the leak of the personal data of millions of Bulgarian citizens, for which no responsibility was taken. It was a huge scandal. I don't know if you'd agree. On this background, talking about results, it was a little weird, wasn't it, to say softly. Also the huge fiasco with H-18, which cost the business huge costs of prior adaptation for things from which the ministry itself first gave up, then brought them back and so on you made the business of monkeys. I also can't say that this qualifies as a good result, and I believe that even you will agree with me. Your memory may be anything, but this is not to hear what you just said 7 years, 7 years ago! Since 2015, when the requirement to introduce measuring instruments for alcohol and cigarettes traders has been introduced, these measuring instruments have not been introduced. How much is the financial loss for the fissure of this action? How 7 years has been motivated by the Ministry of Finance to close its eyes to this thing, although it is in the law and must carry out this commitment. Isn't that something that reminds me, for example, of the things that happened and came out in gambling? This has just become clear in the room. You obviously didn't hear it. So, take it easy on going back to the past.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u226	One second, Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, let's stick to the procedure in regular parliamentary control, which includes a question, a reply, a replica, a duplicate. Now, in the present case, there was a form of personal explanation, but this was provoked by the fact that Mrs. Atanasova addressed not Assen Vassilev but also another person. Either way, we have a lot of questions about regular parliamentary control, considerably exceeding the three hours in which questions can be answered, so I ask you to stick to the procedure more strictly, including keeping the time to ask questions, for lines, answers, duplicates, precisely in order to hear as much information as possible. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! My procedure is for you, Mr. Chairman. You should have interrupted Mr. Hristo Ivanov, who did the procedure not in the manner of conduct. You cannot speak out of this tribune of responsibilities, given that you, as chairman, are putting off our issues for the fifth consecutive week, which concern the leak of personal data to over 300 thousand. the person from the Registry Agency who is directly subordinate to the Minister of Justice. Five weeks in a row! The minister was at the Supreme Judicial Council, it was a business trip, again a business trip in Brussels, she was sick, she was behind, I don't know what. And that's your job. Not to put these issues that are subject to the agenda of the Bulgarian society, last but to the fifth, sixth, and sixth, we cannot reach them, but to order them first, because it is important that the people from here hear it. They're looking forward to parliamentary control. So my procedure is with you. I ask you very much for the next parliamentary control that the Minister of Justice be first in control to respond to the leak of the data from the Registry Agency of over 300 thousand. The guy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. With regard to ordering the issues in regular parliamentary control, the Rules provide the following: always started with the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers, they are not included in rotation. Just for today, for example, the questions to Deputy Prime Minister Grozdan Karadjov are 13. That's about two hours. Then began the rotation of the ministers. It is carried out according to the President's Decree on the appointment of the government. This is how rotation is performed and it follows its normal course. Yes, there was indeed a case in which the Minister of Justice was not here, as he led the meeting of the Supreme Judicial Council, at which the chair of the Supreme Court of Cassation was elected. [[Heckling]] Excuse me? That Friday, yes, very funny, we really didn't call her at 11:30 p.m. He's on a business trip now. That's how it really worked out. If she hadn't been on a business trip, by the way, she would have been first on the list for ministers today, but it probably wouldn't have come to her because of the many questions to the deputy prime ministers and the questioning. We continue with the next question, which is from the National Representative Ivan Totev. All right, here you go, Mr. Slavov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u229	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Please, when MPs abuse the facts and the law, as was the case with the statement made, that there has been a personal data leak by the Registry Agency for which the Minister of Justice is responsible. Please explain to the Members of the National Assembly that this is about a Law that has been operating for more than 10 years, that this is a legal norm and there is no action by the Ministry of Justice in the past 12 years to close this incompleteness in the Law. And it is now that legal action has been taken, including the introduction of the BULSTAT registry amendment bill, which solves this problem, again I say, at a legal level that has been missed 12 years. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u230	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Please do not impose any obligation on me to adjust, in substance, the speeches of the Members of the National Assembly, as it will indeed become quite difficult to conduct the meeting. Mrs. Atanasova's procedure? Maybe at some point we should move on to the questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is to conduct, and it is with regard to the parliamentary control arrangement. You can accept it as a proposal for the next parliamentary control next Friday the time for the ministers' answers, respectively the Deputy Prime Ministers, to be extended to- then until the questions are answered, because there is no point in asking more than four or five weeks of questions to be answered in one or two months. And in this regard, Mr. President, I think you should not spare so much Minister Yordanova, provided that on that Friday, when only the opposition and you were in the Chamber. [[(Repeat from.. Continue Change.... ……]] This is where the Prime Minister and Mrs. Ninova, Deputy Prime Minister, appeared. That is, they have fulfilled their obligations under the Constitution, and Minister Yordanova did not succeed at 10:30 due to any commitments to attend parliamentary control. I ask you thus to structure next week's parliamentary control, even if it is necessary to extend it by more than three hours, to have the opportunity to answer all current questions of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u232	Thank you. First of all, the extension is possible, of course, after a proposal and a vote from the House. Secondly, I cannot arrange the questions that are being asked to the ministers at will. As I said, first there's the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers, then there's rotation. Regarding the protection of the Minister of Justice, first of all, no, I do not protect it, and secondly, I firmly do not believe that it needs my protection. That's what happened to the objective circumstances, and no, she didn't let out an apology at 10:30. Here you are, Mr. Totev, for your question to Assen Vassilev, which is about opportunities for creating a cryptopay mechanism.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u233	I, Mr. Chairman, can first take the way I conduct myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u234	You didn't ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u235	I'll take it in the manner of holding..........................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u236	Ask if you can do it first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u237	May I, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u238	Come on in. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u239	No, I want to do an announcement, he...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u240	Annons? In procedure by the way of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u241	The way you're led. Mr. Chairman, last week I asked you a question about Mr. Assen Vassilev and you didn't let him go. Then I asked you the same question with another title, you just let him go...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u242	You've reformed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u243	I reformed it, yeah. I had just written a re-formulation. But the question is the same, I'll read it the same. What's the point of that? Is this strain of yours so narrow? So I'm reading the same question that's been back since last week a little pointless return, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u244	I've got two minutes to respond to you in the manner of conduct...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u245	I'll answer my question later.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u246	You have no right to answer me. I have a red button here that I can take your word for. [[Radio.]] Don't abuse me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u247	I'll vote for Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u248	Support him, Mr. Karadayi. However, it matters how the question is formulated, yes. In the first case, it did not meet the requirements of the Rules. I believe that after the reformulation, it is already responding and can be admitted. And I wouldn't say it's too narrow. The very fact how often you see here the least Prime Minister Kiril Petkov should show you the essential difference with the last National Assembly that broadcasts a regular government. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] You were not a Member of the National Assembly back then, as far as I recall, but I think that the whole society is aware of the difference, so that for the width and the narrowness you can draw your own conclusions. We're listening to you now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u249	And you say that right at a time when I have a question for Kiril Petkov and today he's gone. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u250	Mr. Totev, just to tell you your question is from this week and is answered within 14 days...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u251	Okay...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u252	...and therefore will be answered in the next sitting, as the Rules require. So here you were inaccurate in the application of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u253	We're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u254	We're listening to Asen Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u255	Mr. Vassilev, in an interview in Bloomberg, you mention there that the government is exploring opportunities to create a cryptocurrency mechanism, including in the interview you say that at the moment you are having conversations with BNB, I think the Central Bank and how it was, and how it was, cryptomarket players or something like that, was written in the short and medium term. My question: is that true? Do you have such conversations with the Central Bank with cryptomarket players? And in the context of Bulgaria's entry into the euro area and the Plan we have, does this matter in your opinion or not? And how will you define the short-term and medium-term plan for introducing a crypto payment mechanism in the country? This is information that is quite interesting at least to me and I see that for other people, who somehow could not enter the mainstream media in Bulgaria, and I therefore allow myself to ask you the question, as it is certainly an interesting topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u256	Thank you, Mr. Totev. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u257	Thank you, Mr. Totev. Yes, talks are held at European level. On 24 November last year, the Council of the European Union agreed on a mandate for negotiations with the European Parliament on two specific legislative proposals in the digital finance package. One is a regulation on cryptoactive markets and the other is a regulation on digital operational sustainability. At the moment, these conversations continue and we are an active participant. It is difficult to predict how fast European legislation will move, but these legislative proposals are expected to be adopted and come into force within this year with effect after 12 or 24 months, respectively. In view of this, the Ministry is currently doing research to see how it would affect the Bulgarian paying system, the Bulgarian banks, how much they are willing to do such a thing, and how this transition could become much smoother.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u258	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. For the line, Mr. Totev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u259	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. My question was dictated by the fact that the interview sounded somewhat more personal. It did not include this European process, so I took the liberty of asking you personally whether something outside of this European process was happening in Bulgaria, because that was the spirit of the interview. But I see that in this case we are walking along with the European process, we are doing nothing different than this. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u260	Thank you, Mr. Totev. This concludes the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister of EU funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev. Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. We move on to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economy and Industry and Minister of Economy and Industry Cornelia Ninova, to which there is a question by the National Representative Denitsa Nikolova regarding the implementation of the Industrial Parks Act. Here you are, Mr. Kullensky, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u261	My procedure, Mr. Chairman, is related to the fact that Mrs. Atanasova tried to mislead the Members of the National Assembly in the Chamber a short time ago. At this parliamentary control, when Minister Yordanova was due to appear, she mentioned that only the opposition were in the House and you. That was not the case, Mr. President, I was also in the Chamber, and my colleagues from the Chamber continue to change, so please pay attention to Mrs. Atanasova not to mislead colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u262	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Yes, there really were representatives of more parliamentary groups, but I didn't think it was that important to determine who it was by name. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, my question today is more about the strategic nature of our country's economic development. You are already responsible Deputy Prime Minister precisely for the economy and industry, and in very few cases it is from this high tribune that Bulgaria's economic development is at the heart of achieving not only growth, not only improving the standard and life of the people, but also of course, seeking convergence with the European countries and members of the European Union. In this direction is also my question, my question rather, so I formed it as a question, because there is something much deeper behind the common question, and it is related to this: in what way do we have a relatively new law in the state at this time? This is the Industrial Parks Act adopted at the beginning of last year, and according to § 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of this Law, within one year of its adoption, the Minister of Economy together with the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works submitted for approval to the Council of Ministers a list of key industrial parks of strategic importance for the balanced territorial development of the country, corresponding to the objectives and priorities of the strategic documents for regional and spatial development under the Regional Development Act. My question today is: given this provision, can you provide us with information at what stage is the preparation of the list of key industrial parks mentioned in the Law. And accordingly, can we rely on one in a short horizon of time? Because this will inevitably have an effect on the overall development from now on in terms of both the economy and the investment process of policies in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u265	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mrs. Nikolova and Dear Bulgarian citizens! It is certainly that the economy is at the heart of the development of all other policies. In order for there to be money for both healthcare and education and social policy, the economy must be developed. And industrial parks are one of the main means for achieving growth in the economy, for supporting and stimulating the Bulgarian business, for creating good conditions for foreign investment. And from now on, in the work of the economy and industry, this will be an absolute priority. Specifically, the question of the list. The law on industrial parks in its art. 19th para. 2, p. 3 obliges the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, to approve a list of key industrial parks with strategic importance for the country's balanced territorial development. Of course, when looking strategically at this issue, parks must be proportionate or evenly distributed across the country and not clustered only in large cities, because this deepens the differences between regions. On the basis of art. 20, para. 1 of the Industrial Parks Act The Ministry of Economy maintains an electronic register of industrial parks. Since the entry into force of this law until now nine industrial parks have been entered in the register and I will now tell you which are specific: 1. Industrial Park Pleven "Talish; 2. Industrial Park Sofia, Bozhurishte; 3. Industrial Park - Vidin; 4. Industrial Park - Karlovo; 5. Industrial Park Suvorovo 6. High-tech production park - Simitli; 7. Industrial Park - Shumen; 8. Industrial Park LVZ; 9. High-tech industrial park Hemus. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, over three pages the Ministry's employees have written to me how this list has not been drawn up the list which the Law obliges us to present to the Council of Ministers and offer me here from the stand to ask you for an extension of the deadline for drawing up this list. I'm gonna put that aside, and I'm not gonna ask you to. Of course, there are objective reasons why the list under the Law has not been drawn up, these are the multiple elections last year, the political instability, the change of office offices, regular ones are objective reasons, but this is not an excuse for unfinished business. Therefore, those of the employees of the Ministry of Economy and Industry, who have not done their job for a year, will bear their responsibility. And what's more, what they haven't done in a year or so, we're gonna have to do it in a month and eight days, because the deadline that the Law gives us expires on March 12th, and until then I'm committed to you, I'll do everything I can, I say, the administration that hasn't done its job for a year now for a month to do it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u266	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you are, Mrs. Nikolova, you are entitled to two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u267	Thank you for your honesty, Mrs. Ninova. And thank you for the commitment you've made here from this tribune. This list is extremely important for several reasons. On the one hand, based on this list of industrial parks, we will have the opportunity to use European funding so that we can support potential investors to create employment, to create new technological industries or high technologies in these parks. On the other hand, it is extremely important to have a balance with regard to the construction of key areas, because this is an element of the formation of a proper and long-term regional policy. So in this direction, I really hope that you will make the best possible efforts in order to have one, on the one hand, correct analysis that will contribute to having a balanced distribution of industrial parks of key importance for our country on the territory of the various regions, and on the other hand, I hope that within this short-term horizon that you define yourself, we will be able to really have the important list. My specific questions are in a different direction. Do you intend, when you draw up this list, to use a methodology and criteria that are publicly available in order for interested parties to have their respective role in the process of shaping this list? However, the list is necessary for publicity, for transparency of the process under which it is formed, and it is very critical that we have the right methodology and criteria to choose the location of these key areas accordingly. My second question is: to what extent do you think that the territory of the Southeastern region, more specific Burgas region, should have its strategic industrial park in view of the location of the region of Burgas is one of the most important for the development of the territory of the country, namely the South East region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u268	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u269	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! In addition to European funding, the development of industrial parks and industrial zones needs both national policy and national co-financing. We have discussed this issue many times in the Council of Ministers and I am counting on national co-financing funds for the development of economic zones this year. Of course, the criteria on which we will define this list will be public, at least because this list needs to be approved by the Council of Ministers, and it goes ahead of this for coordination and for public discussion. But I'm saying it's the least of the laws. In the Committee on Economics of the National Assembly I undertake to come, to present these criteria to you, to discuss them, if necessary, in advance in a calm and free conversation and to choose the best. However, I note that when defining areas or parks in the regions concerned, we must look at the issue in a complex way. You ask me about Burgas, I would ask the question of Northwestern Bulgaria, where there is a need for targeted state policy involving the construction of such a zone. We have an economic zone in Vidin, which stands, does not develop. Here is a way for the state to intervene, to invest in the Vidin zone and to start working. But keep in mind that when we define such places, we should not just look at the terrain, but we should take account of the demographic picture in particular, because one is to create a modern and developed economic zone in a region where there is no labour. You're just condemning these investments to failure. Besides the demographic picture, we have to look at the infrastructure. It's one thing to create a zone on a bare field, another is when highways, roads, there's an airport, there's a Danube bridge and so on. That is, the assessment of the determination of this list, the criteria, will look at a set of many indicators: demographics, geographical location, infrastructure and so on. Count on this to be a transparent and public conversation. I fully agree that it is key to the development of the economy and industry. As far as Burgas is concerned, you have a very well developed economic zone, although it is both municipal property and state participation, but for now this area would be defined as one of the well-developed. Of course, everything that needs additional care as a government, in order to make it even better, we are available. It's a subject that's out-of-party. It's happened to me in the last few weeks when you've asked me to take control, the favorable position to always ask me overparty questions. That's what it was like for the dams, it's for the economic zones. This also guarantees a single guarantee here in Parliament, and also outside the society, a national agreement on these issues. I am sure that no matter how many differences you have here with each other, the development of the economy as a basis for the development of our society is an absolute consensus. So the state will take care of this sector, targeted state policy, a role of the state already in the development of the economy. I expect you to understand all this to go through a quality legislative process. I will present the list as soon as possible and invite you to a discussion on the criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Would you like to express an attitude? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u271	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. In fact, you also define your approach, which is really in line with the course of regional policy, and the model that has been set up and presented in the latter, I would say, a few years in the last management of GERB, and I am glad that in this direction we can really speak outpartisanly. Because when commenting on the direction of implementing a policy for the economy, which is focused on a balanced distribution of industrial parks on the territory of the country, the really complex approach is needed with regard to the criteria according to which choice is made for where to make an investment or another, especially those of a strategic nature. Perhaps a few things to consider when you shape the criteria and methodology in terms of industrial parks. One of the things you need to take into account is that we have a lot of strategic analyses and documents in the form of projects still on the integrated territorial strategies for each region of the country, and in the framework of these analyses you can see how at present the potentials of the regions are actually brought to the fore in terms of an opportunity for economic development. So your analyses should also be based on the approach of integrated territorial strategies in terms of forming the country's balanced regional development. Another important and essential aspect in terms of industrial parks is the direction towards European funding. The line there is that there is an opportunity for industrial parks to receive their European funding in several directions. One of the directions is, of course, the National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability. There, however, you should comply with the European Commission's comment, which explicitly says that two of the zones, at least two of the areas to be implemented under the National Plan, should be in Northern Bulgaria. And at the next step to bear in mind that, as regards the Partnership Agreement, we have industrial parks of a regional and local nature, which must also be taken into account in the course of determining the list, which is in accordance with the requirements of the Law. So good luck to you. I hope we will indeed have the opportunity to comment in a very short horizon on the coming weeks and the criteria and methodology, and of course, the potential list of strategic and key industrial parks in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. That concludes the questions and questions to Cornelia Ninova. Thank you, Mrs. Ninova, for participating. We move on to the questions and questions of Grozdan Karadjov, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from the National Representative Boyko Klechkov concerning a problem with the lack of a single water operator and a water association within an administrative area. Here you go, Mr. Kletchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, according to the EU legislation, the water sector is financed by European funds only in consolidated administrative areas. There are several areas in Bulgaria that are not with a consolidated single district water service operator. One of them is Kyustendil district, where Sapareva Banya municipality refuses to consolidate. The municipality of Dupnitsa is also on its way out of the Water Association. There is the idea of creating two, if not more water associations in one area, which is contrary to European regulations. I do not take into account the correctness of the wishes of individual municipalities, but all this deprives municipalities of European funding in the water infrastructure. On the other hand, the Water and Water operator "Kustendilska voda" Ltd cannot present the adoption of the business plan by the Commission for energy and water regulation. The failure to accept the business plan has a very negative impact on the financial situation of the water company due to the non-upgrading of the price of drinking water from 2013 to date. The lack of a business plan does not allow planning investment by the water company itself for the development of the water infrastructure. The lack of the updated water price does not allow raising the salaries of the company's employees. In this way, Kyustendilska Vodvojsvod is an un preferred employer, with 80% of the employees of the company on a minimum wage. The lack of financial resources does not allow the development of projects for the construction of the water supply structure. At present, losses from the lack of an updated water price, respectively, the company's unrealised profit, amounted to more than 2 million. And 800 thousand. lv. Dear Minister, my question to you and respectively to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is: what does the Ministry provide for solving the problem of the lack of consolidation for a water association and for a water operator within an administrative area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u274	Thank you, Mr. Kletchkov. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u275	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Klechkov, everything you shared in the preamble before your question is absolutely true. Exactly the same are the European requirements as the requirements of the current laws. State policy in the water sector is aimed at achieving a financially, technically and environmentally sustainable water sector to provide high quality water services at socially acceptable prices for consumers. In the implementation of these provisions of the Water Act, the state policy for the Water and sewerage sector is defined by a Strategy for the Development and Management of Water and Sewerage in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2023 and four strategic objectives are set before the industry, namely: To build the water infrastructure in the country so that compliance with the European directives can be achieved. Secondly, to maintain the existing water infrastructure by constantly replacing and reconstructing it in order to have sustainability of the services provided. Thirdly, prices of services should not exceed the threshold of social tolerance. Currently, in order to achieve mandatory compliance with European directives in the field of drinking and waste water in the country, it is no secret to each of you that more than 13,5 billion are needed. lv. The Republic of Bulgaria does not have these funds to invest, and it is normal to expect funds from the European Commission funds. The lack of consolidation in the territory of a given area deprives all municipalities of the area of access to EU funds. That's how this vicious circle closes. In terms of consolidation, many trainings, seminars, meetings with stakeholders and many other so-called soft measures have been held in recent years. That is, by reason of the conviction to achieve consolidation of all water operators in one territory. As a result 22 of the administrative areas in Bulgaria are already consolidated. They are designed and built with funding from the European Union. Unfortunately, due to the refusal of consolidation of 17 out of 265 municipalities in the country in six administrative districts: Blagoevgrad, here is the district of Kyustendil, unfortunately Montana, Lovech, Pazardzhik and Razgrad, the water services are provided by more than one operator. These areas do not have access to European funding. The 17 municipalities are Kresna, Sandanski, Sapareva Banya, Berkovitsa, Troyan, Peshtera, Rakitovo, Velingrad, Sarnitsa, Bratsigovo, Batak, Isperih and Samuil, who do not decide to enter the district associations in the water, as well as the municipalities of Dupnitsa, Petrich, Panagyurishte and Strelcha, who then voted and refused. In some of these 17 municipalities the population is very small. They cannot generate even the means to remove the periodic accidents on the obsolete water supply network, and it is absolutely impossible to finance them to build their compulsory water infrastructure and to achieve compliance. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll keep going if you'll let me, in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u276	Of course. Here you go, Mr. Kletchkov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u277	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the things I have heard are indeed true, and this is the real state of the water sector I am talking about Kyustendil district. My satisfaction will come from my question and the way I answer, if we have, for example, a solution to an option and a way for us to finance what hasn't been done maybe for 70 years, namely to build a completely new plumbing structure. We have maybe three or four projects that are just urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u278	Thank you, Mr. Kletchkov. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u279	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, this is the problem that we are all facing: how to finance those municipalities and water operators that are outside the consolidated community, because they cannot be provided with European funding under European directives. That's why I'm doing this. 1 of the National Assembly's decision, promulgated in the State Gazette, issue 100 of 2019, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has formed an interdepartmental working group with broad representation from all interested parties to develop a draft of a new Water Act, which should arrange the development policy of the water sector, the ownership of the water systems and facilities, activities and responsibilities of the owners of public water infrastructure and so on. The main situations that we have laid down in the concept of the new law are that the water infrastructure is public property, as it is now, in an administrative area of water services to be provided by only one water operator. Here is the important moment, because for the first time by law it will create a legal obligation for all operators to be in a consolidated community. Thirdly, to reduce the regulatory burden. Fourth, water services are to be provided by public undertakings. Fifth, keep the social tolerability of the price of the water services, but change the structure of the prices. This is also the finale of my answer. Once again, I would like to highlight point two of the services provided by a water operator in an administrative area. This will be the starting point from which we will have the right to finance and those that are not consolidated at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u280	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. We are going to ask the MPs Ivan Totev and Nikolay Nankov about the policy for the implementation of the government's intention to build tunnel facilities. Here you go, Mr. Totev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u281	I thought the question would be first, so I had prepared myself for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u282	First it's asking in order.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u283	Dear Minister, Mr Chairman, colleagues! My colleague Nankov and I have prepared a question on an important issue, rather a strategic issue. But it's been a while since we deposited it, and we've heard news from Mr. Minister on it. It is said, Minister, that among the priorities of the government that were announced in the election campaign was the development of infrastructure and we see that some of the representatives of the ruling majority are announcing that the budget is extremely infrastructure-oriented. I will comment on that perhaps in the next question in a moment. Either way, you announced the commitment to build a lot of bridges, a lot of tunnels. Then in your TV appearances, although Mr. President made a remark to me that TV interviews do not involve ministers, which is nonsense, but anyway, on January 7th and 9th you made it sound that the tunnel under Shipka the project will be stopped for very objective, you said reasons: there was no project, it was an engineering procedure and so on. It's been announced that this project is shutting down. However, in parallel to this, all procedures that concern the construction of this tunnel facility, along with Gabrovo's bypass, part of which is the tunnel crossing itself, go and continue to go on both the engineering procedure and the audit procedure and the oversight procedure. Including January 17th, this is somewhere 10 days after your speech on TV that this project will be stopped, changed and so on: in 20 years we will have a four-way from Tarnovo, a highway from Bucharest to Svilengrad and so on, where there will be a tunnel with four sails. Ten days later, after all your interviews, the paperwork on envelope 2 is even opened. On January 17th, the documents were opened and the opening was scheduled at 9:30 p.m. So you talk to the media, the procedures under the Public Procurement Act are running, documents are being opened, the contract is being executed. Maybe a week after that you announced that it would remain the old tunnel. Our question was your announcement to stop or terminate the project: do you know how much the state would have lost with those 10 years of work? There are also our EIA procedures, and there is a transfer of long-distance conduits. We have found documentation since 2012 for the relocation of the long-lines. There's a hell of a lot of money in there. Our question was this: on the one hand, you say it stops. On the other hand, the procedures for the POP continue. From a third party, the analysis that had to be done before the announcement that it would stop the tunnel facility is made to give a clear answer to how much money, how much money has been spent so far. How much money will the state throw in the basket of this political, I would say, a decision? You closed the subject afterwards, saying that the tunnel would continue on the old project. Now our question is this little part of your gigantic tunnel and bridge policy: is it going to happen, or is it not going to happen this tunnel? Mr. Nankov will continue after this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u284	Thank you, Mr. Totev. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov. Mr. Totev, just let me tell you about your question to Deputy Prime Minister Grozdan Karadjov is under number 9 on the list.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u285	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Nankov, Dear Mr. Totev! Your question is a policy to implement the government's intention to build tunnel facilities. At the same time you have developed a fundamental question about the case with the tunnel under Shipka, so I will move a little bit of my written question, with your permission, and I will answer to what you talked about mostly. In my first such interview, in which I addressed the issue of the tunnel under Shipka, I really expressed my amazement, and it was shared, by many people, that the facility under Shipka peak, the first tunnel through Stara Planina is a two-band, and that is a fact. Indeed, my first wish was to stop it in this form and to extrapolate the design under the conditions of one more tube to become at least a four-band. This turned out impossible because, the next day, when I began to study the information in detail, I realized that this thing was actually prepared by the previous regular government, a two-way road that would travel around the city of Gabrovo to take out probably the traffic that came from Veliko Tarnovo through Dryanovo, and then there is a two-way bridge, there is another tunnel facility, that is to say there is no way that this newly built track could be reformed into a four-way. Then I visited Gabrovo, because people had already been worried about what would be done with the tunnel, and for good reason, I apologized to Gabrovos, and I apologized to all Bulgarians for being rash, and if the purpose of your question is to apologize to the MPs, then I do. I think it's the right thing to do when a person makes such a mistake. Regarding future plans, firstly, for the tunnel under Shipka, as you yourself said, and I do not need to repeat it, an envelope is opened 2, this is the consulting service to the construction of the tunnel, and a consulting service means supervision, after which a confirmation of the offer is requested, the offer is confirmed in writing on January 18 and is currently being prepared the contractual relationship, so that the tunnel under Shipka will be built, and for the other tunnel offers I do not know how much time I have left for me to, at the moment is being developed the preliminary route that connects Sofia's ring road with Petrohan, that is, passing along Petrohan, making tunnel passage under the Balkan Mountains, which is known as the Petrohan tunnel, and then connects with the speed road somewhere under Montana, that is the way of Montana. The third tunnel crossing is along the axis of the Black Sea Highway, where we are in an advanced phase of advanced idea design, and there are also procedures under the Public Procurement Act for a final project and part of it will be the tunnel crossing project under the Stara Planina. These are the tunnel passes you asked me about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u286	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Mr. Totev, about the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u287	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov, all the more so that you had the courage to correct yourself and apologize for the information. Many colleagues here from the ruling majority, of the other parties talk a little bit to angro, there will be time for them to apologize, but it will be a while. It's not good to get into a four-band tunnel and outrun cars, but here's the thing. The question we want to ask you: in this mandate how you imagine it, these projects that you mentioned, to what extent and phase it is possible to implement. You mentioned, as far as I heard, four tunnel passes through the Balkan Mountains, didn't you, Petrohan's, I think the Pass of the Republic had also said that it was coming on. My colleague Nankov and I very much want to ask, by the way, do you have any readiness to launch any pre-, pre-, pre-project studies for Troyan Kernare? This is a very important tunnel crossing between Northern and Southern Bulgaria and exactly the central parts of Northern and Southern Bulgaria. My specific question is: how do you imagine these facilities after four years, in which you will, for example, give to your successor, I suppose, if you do not repeat the mandate, of course, how do you imagine them, what stage of work can you do on these projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u288	Here you are, Minister Karadjov, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u289	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I have really said clearly and exactly how the priorities for tunnel crossings are arranged, i.e. the tunnels in our plans. First of all, there's the Shipka tunnel I'm talking about over time, and I've already explained that it's in the contract phase, probably when the API sign their contract, they'll let me know or, as usual, I've learned from the press, from the news. So that's not important either. The important thing is that it will be built. As I told you, there was an intensive design, that is, an extended design of the entire route from Sofia to Montana via Petrohan tunnel, like... If you are interested in the procedures, which I am absolutely sure that both you and Mr. Nankov are well aware of, the legal procedures, they pass immediately after the preliminary design, when it is known where the trail of the route will go, this EIA is initiated, if it is appealed, and if we do not declare it a national object, the current law will be on one appeal, if not, usually two appeals. That'll take at least a year. Parallelly, we could, but it is a very high risk of starting alienation procedures, which takes another year and another appeal. And a final announcement under the Public Procurement Act of design, then, after the design itself and under the Public Procurement Act, competition procedure and execution of construction. That's about three years until we get to the actual start point. This also applies to the Black Sea Highway with full force. Therefore, I have always said in my interviews even about bridges or tunnels that we will do all the quickest way to start the construction and where we can finish the construction of these facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u290	Thank you, Minister Karadjov. Mr. Totev, do you have an attitude? Here you go, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u291	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my attitude, I will address two main aspects. I'll start with admiration, as well as my colleague Totev, for admitting the wrong start at the beginning of your media statements. I won't give you advice. I really won't give you advice, but you know: my language, my enemy. It is better to act first and get acquainted with factology, then talk, but really admire what you said. Secondly, with regard to the tunnel under Shipka, Gabrovo's approach to the wrong answer to the first question of Totev, the one-way traffic on Gabrovo's road around the road is not at stake by the previous regular government. You'll check it out and you'll see it's true. The project started 2007. The first part, the first stage of the roundabout was implemented 2008 - 2009, 2012 - 2014 was designed the second stage with the bridge with console concrete and tunnel, 2020 included construction. Indeed, here you have well realized again the admiration for which you have well realized that absolutely illogical, no financial and economic analysis could prove either in terms of traffic or in terms of financial logic, economic logic, how from one tape in the direction of 20 km around a ring road we will put the movement into three lanes in the tunnel. By the way, the so-called and completed public contract is for two pipes, such are the regulatory requirements of one movement tube, one emergency which can also be used in certain situations. Secondly, you mentioned at the beginning in relation to the tunnel under Shipka that there was no secured funding. Here I am going to make a note: You will also get acquainted with the future Operational Programme "Transport" here we are talking about European funding, of course, there was the tunnel under Shipka along with the entire corridor nine "without part of Veliko Tarnovo, Gabrovo, as priority projects for funding. Yeah, the fact is, we don't have an approved program. I'm pretty sure you don't want to come from the hypothesis here, so I'm saying, I'm pretty sure you don't want to come from the hypothesis that there won't be a program, that these objects will be removed, but I'll give you something else. In the three-year budget forecast, which is currently in place and the one proposed, the tunnel under Shipka is at stake, you know, with the launch of the initial investment so that you can sign a contract with budget funding. Even that's not necessary. Under the Public Finance Act, you can conclude a contract for a given contract, if there is, provide for the necessary budget forecast and if a decision of the Council of Ministers is voted on purpose to ensure the state's commitment. I mean, your arguments that there was no funding didn't last, but you in Gabrovo, and now in the stands, you mentioned that this wasn't on the agenda. There will be a tunnel, it has the greatest design readiness and God forbid it will happen within the current term. God willing, for four years! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. There's something else I'd like to point out. You, in all your subsequent statements, have already disproved a small part of the coalition agreement that for all others recorded...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u292	Let's get this over with, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u293	...up to three tunnels under the Balkan Mountains within the four-year term is not just unrealistic to talk, but would be a really huge utopia. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u294	Thank you. We continue with the questions to Minister Karadjov. There is a question from the National Representative Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov concerning the operational state of the Republican road III-1905 Here you are, Mr. Kulkov, to state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u295	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! The third-class Republican road, which has just been reported, serves the population in the municipality of Garmen, as well as many of the inhabitants of Hadzhidimovo and Satovcha municipalities. The road is in a very poor operational state with many networked cracks, deformations, huge holes and fallen sections of the road. In early 2021, after repeated protests by the residents of these municipalities, the previous governors of GERB may have announced that they have an approved technical project and begin the rehabilitation of the road. This further burdened the budget of the municipality of Garmen, urgent replacement of the water service communications in the village of Ognyanovo, where the route in question passes and subsequently asphalting of the compromised road. Given that the above-mentioned road is very intensive and in order to avoid fatal accidents, my question to you, Mr Minister, is as follows: Is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works within this budgetary year planning to carry out the necessary actions to repair and rehabilitate that road section? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u296	Thank you. Here you are, Minister Karadjov, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u297	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kulkov, the repair program of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the period 2022 - 2025 has not yet been established. It is in the process of discussion, including waiting for the adoption of the state budget, where it is actually financed. It is currently being developed, the aim is to improve the state of the road network in the country. By the end of this week, citizens have actually given their proposals to include roads on the list by sending proposals and signals. In the draft Programme for the Repair of the Republican Road Network for 2022 road III-1905 Dobrinishte In 2021, through the Programme "Current repair and maintenance" in accordance with art. Art. 8 and art. 9 of Ordinance No rd-02-20-19 of 12 November 2012 on maintenance and ongoing repair of roads for the section from km 0 to km 13 of the third-class road was awarded and developed a technological project for repair under contract from 14 June 2019 with contractor DZTP The project is in coordination procedure at the Institute of Roads and Bridges, which has not yet been completed. Repair will improve the condition of the pavement and accessories to the road. The section is currently not included in the Main Repair Program, as there is no technical project available, and therefore there is no way to obtain a building permit. This had to be prepared in the previous years so that we could now have this opportunity and announce a procedure under the Public Procurement Act for construction works and construction supervision. We are seriously considering the possibilities for including Republican Road III-1905 in this 4-year major repair programme, depending on the date on which the project documents will come out.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u298	Thank you, Minister Karadjov. Do you have a line, Mr. Kulkov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u299	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, in fact you have given the main answer to the question that the road in question does not have approved technical projects and are now preparing, which is quite worrying for the residents of these municipalities, but since the procedure is under way now, as you have noted, for the upcoming repairs of the roads in the Republic of Bulgaria, I sincerely hope that in one of the most visited resorts in Bulgaria, the Ognyanovski Mineral Baths, and therefore for the villages Leshten and Kovachevitsa, you will find and give every effort to include the rehabilitation of this so vital road for tourism and for the inhabitants of these municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u300	Do you have a hole? No. The next question is from the National Representative Momchil Kunchev Ivanov on the construction of a bridge facility at the southern road node Veliko Tarnovo to the so-called Prisovski turns Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u301	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question is related to a specific section of the Republican road network around the town of Veliko Tarnovo, and more precisely a section of the road of the southern entrance of Veliko Tarnovo, through which the traffic from Sofia and Ruse to the Pass of the Republic and Shipka Pass passes mainly. This section of the road is known as the so-called Prisovski turns for all who live in Veliko Tarnovo, and those who pass from North to South Bulgaria along this section.. a very dangerous stretch indeed, this is a section of the road that has a very strong concentration of accidents. For the period 2010 to 2020, only about 300 road accidents occurred there. This section is really a large ulcer for all who live in Veliko Tarnovo, and for all those who pass the main traffic Sofia "Ruse" to South Bulgaria. For this reason, in recent years, there have been many promises that this section will be repaired and action will be taken to make these turns straight. This is a stretch around 2 km, which is characterized by very inverse curves with a small radius, which in turn is a prerequisite for all traffic accidents. In this regard, about a year ago, the Road Infrastructure Agency was tasked with designing an extended project for the development of detailed geological research and for the development of PSU, but to this day we have no information about what is happening with this submitted assignment. My question to you is as follows: Is there an approved by the Road Infrastructure Agency, designed an extended project with full geological research and PSU to build a new route on the road I-5 Ruse, Veliko Tarnovo, Gabrovo in a section of km 105+430 to km 107+900? One question to this question: is there a procedure in API's investment programme for the construction of this bridge facility and is there money available for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u302	Thank you. Here you are, Minister Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u303	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the short answer is In the longer part of the answer, I will repeat some of your findings, namely: Regional Road Management.. Veliko Tarnovo is currently preparing an open procedure under the Public Procurement Act for the development of an extended project with full geological research and the PSU for the construction of about 2.5 km of a new route on the road I-5 Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo" in a section from km 105+430 to km 107+900. The announcement of the procedure is provided in the Project Programme of the API for 2022 and the section is from the southern exit of Veliko Tarnovo to the beginning of the bypass of the town of Debelets and is known as Prisovski turns. The division has several consecutive reversible curves with a very small radius and when driving at an inadequate speed it is possible to leave the lane. In poor condition are the pavement and the drainage of the road, also the section defined as a section with the concentration of road accidents, and in the period 2010 - 2019 there have been 234 road accidents. With the shifting of the first-class route will secure the section, facilitate traffic in the area and increase the safety and comfort of travelers. A landslide process will also be avoided in the section from km 106+500 to km 106+535, which is further hampering the movement at the moment. For the announcement of the contract in 2021 API has prepared a job for design, which is currently agreed by the Municipality of Veliko Tarnovo. After its final approval, the Regional Road Management will prepare the necessary documentation for the public procurement for design. The future performer will have to design this extended project for a new route, perform full geological research and develop a PSU. Only after completion of all required environmental and spatial procedures could the development of a technical project and subsequent construction be undertaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u304	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u305	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I take the floor not so much for a reply, but just as to express my satisfaction with your response and what you have said that at the Road Infrastructure Agency there is a willingness to start solving this problem. This is indeed a very large ulcer for all residents of Veliko Tarnovo and at the very least with the solution of this problem many road accidents will be prevented, many lives will be saved, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u306	Mr. Secretary? You won't use it. We continue with a question from the MPs Alexander Dimitrov Dunchev and Yuri Olegov Koslov about the construction of a speedy road Sofia. Here you are, Mr. Dunchev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u307	With my colleague Koslov, with whom we are leading on behalf of the "We are continuing the Change" Sofia-region we have one question that all citizens of Samokov and the region ask us, all skiers who go every weekend, including my family, to Borovets, and all guests of this wonderful end from Bulgaria: when will the road be repaired or a speedy road between Sofia and Samokov be made? Another time that is on your mind today, but there is no way that people are interested: is there a possibility, is there a project with you, whether something is being developed on this issue, is there any assessments being made to have a speed path between Sofia, Samokov or at least for some more serious overall rehabilitation of the existing route. In short, this is our question: can anything be done so that people can travel more calmly to Samokov and Borovets.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u308	Thank you. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u309	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dunchev, Dear Mr. Koslov, in the period 2000 - 2006 were developed in front of study on a speed road connecting Sofia with Borovets resort. Since then, however, an investment intention has not been seen as a priority in the API's investment programme. In view of this, it has not developed in relation to any research and design. In the summer of 2021 due to established sections with the concentration of road accidents II-82 Kostenets The road problems that affect road safety will be taken into account by undertaking repair activities along the route. As regards the implementation of a complete repair of road II-82 in the period 2015 - 2016 a technical project was made for the major repair of the entire track with a length of over 86 km from km 0 to km 86+100. In view of the intense traffic and degradation on the road, as well as the recent significant period of time since its development, six years have passed, it is necessary to update it. In other words, despite the existence of a technical project, the past five years legally restrict us to use this project and to start the renovation immediately, which is why it is necessary to update this technical project and become up-to-date again. Our schedule for 2022 provides for the launch of such a procurement to update the technical development in accordance with the existing design rules. Then public procurement will be announced for the selection of builder and construction supervision for the main repair of this second-class road. The track of this section is characterized by constant descent and of rock masses of the fragments and falls into an area of erosion processes. On the section at km 87+182, also known as the Devil's Bridge, where the rock arches are drawn, a review was also carried out this winter on December 22, 2021 by representatives of the District Department of Roads in Sofia and by representatives of the In view of the geological risk identified, serious reinforcements are needed to ensure the resistance of rock removal. For the sustainable strengthening and stabilisation of the affected area, a project solution is needed, in line with the specific engineering and geological conditions on the terrain, which can also include events to destroy and remove dangerous rock blocks from the ground, surface strengthening of the affected area with steel mesh and ropes, anchoring and building a fire pocket wall. The Agency shall provide for a study to be carried out in 2022 on the basis of which technical design documentation is to be carried out to address the problem permanently. In view of the poor operational condition of road II-82 in order to ensure safe conditions for movement until the start of the overall repair in 2021, an ongoing repair of 18 km from the second-class road in the section 62 + 500 to 80 + 600, which will continue in 2022, has started. The destruction of the skates and the laying of a network to strengthen the section at km 77 + 182. The Emergency Repairs Programme of the Road Infrastructure Agency is included for the implementation of the strengthening of seven sections of road II-82 in the section between the Resort complex "Borovets" and the village of Raduil. Technical projects are currently being developed and the project readiness of the sites is at different stages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u310	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Dunchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u311	Thank you, Minister Karadjov, for the detailed response.. he is obviously prepared with colleagues from API. All we have to do is ask you the final question, which means for now there is no policy and vision to make a new speed road. All forces will be thrown into rehab on the road, if that's what you mean. However, in the future, what can the citizens of Samokov do and we here to work on a more sustainable, longer-term option to improve this road so that it has better speed indicators, of course, protecting the nature it needs to go through? Is there anything we can do so that in the future we can work for a more quality road speed, as no matter how much we repair it now, it is heavy, with sharp turns, risky? People rushing to Borovets, driving at 80 miles, making risky overruns. No matter how much control we have, with this desire for people to get to the mountain faster, it will always be a great risk. Is there any chance in the future that we can help with a more serious speed project?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u312	Thank you. Let's say it's a line. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u313	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, a study phase can always be started for a future project on a speedy road, but as you very rightly pointed out, the road goes through extremely difficult expansion sites, that is, it will be necessary, unfortunately, to enter parts of nature, as some of them are protected territories, which by itself suggests that it will take quite some time. In other words, between three and four years is the normal period during which it can pass from this earliest idea phase to the announcement of a procedure under the Public Procurement Act for a technical project, i.e. without ever having started. During this time, it is clear that what is more pressing is what I have told you in my response, namely to rehabilitate it in a way that is safe and safe, however, to move travelers along this path, and in the meantime, indeed, in the next work review that I have with the Road Infrastructure Agency, I will recommend experts to assign a preliminary study for a speedy path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u314	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There has been a question from the MPs Sevim Ismail Ali, Esheref Kyasim Escheref and Fatme Hassan Ramadan regarding the preparation of a project and accompanying procedures for the field surveying for the construction of the northern bypass of the town of Aytos, leading to road III-208............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Mr. Sevim Ali, you will develop the question..........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u315	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The long-awaited over 20 years of major renovation of 33 km from the Aytos Pass Provadia "Duskotna" Aytos, which has a very intense movement due to the fact that the same section is the most direct link between the districts of Burgas and Varna and that it serves daily by citizens of the municipalities of Rouen, Aitos, Sungurlare and Pomorie. A very serious problem creates the traffic of heavy goods and passenger cars throughout the year, with all this intensive traffic passing through the city of Aytos. For years this has made the road extremely risky and dangerous to the lives and health of both users and residents and guests of the city. The last serious traffic accident in this place, which rocked all Bulgaria and ended with a fatal end, was from 13 September last year, when on the Aytos Street, Hadji Dimitar, when he was going down the road from Rouen to Aytos Road, failed to stop in time and hit a sidelight car, driven by a 33-year-old man with whom the wife and their two children were moving 5 and 8 years old. Unfortunately, as a result of the tragic accident, the father and his two children died on the spot, and three others were hospitalized. In order to ensure the life and safety of the users of this road section, which after these severe tragic incidents was renamed by the people in the Road of Death, it is necessary to establish within reasonable time a bypass that will lead the movement out of the city and ensure the safety of the road users and residents of the city of Aytos. In this regard, Mr. Minister, our question to you is do you foresee in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for 2022 funds to prepare a project for the northern bypass of the city of Aytos? Are accompanying procedures and measures planned to investigate the terrain, and is there any time limit for their completion? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u316	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u317	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ali, Esheref, Mrs. Ramadan, thank you for this question. Unfortunately, I must begin with the direct answer that the preparation of a project for the design and construction of API for 2022 has not been undertaken at the moment, is not foreseen for the preparation of a project for the northern bypass of the city of Aytos. In order to start activities for the preparation and construction of such a tour, the provisions of art. 75 of the Law on the construction of the territory, namely that the elements of the transport technical infrastructure are constructed on the basis of the forecasts of the municipalities and of the detailed planning relating to the structure of the territory. At the moment, the Aytos General Development Plan does not have a lying track for the surrounding road, as it is of local use and ensures the safety of movement within the urbanised territory. In view of this, the Agency has not initiated procedures for project securing the future bypass route due to the lack of source information and vision for crossing the Aytos Municipality. Following an amendment to the General Development Plan and when including the bypass in the Agency's programme, it will be possible to take design and construction actions. I inform you that in view of the serious road accidents API has targeted and implemented a number of events to secure the sections within and outside the urbanised territory of the city of Aytos. After a serious road accident occurred on 13 September 2021 in the urbanised territory of the town of Aytos, the Road Safety and Planning Directorate of the Republican Road Network activities in the API has developed a concept to increase the level of road safety in intersections located on Republic Road III-208. The measures to increase traffic safety, including a survey to build a circular intersection at the entrance of the city of Aytos, are defined. There is also the possibility of building a circular intersection at the entrance of the city to the Asphalt base as a measure of calming the movement. The initiation and design of an existing intersection in another type of intersection in the locality is, however, within the competence of the municipality concerned, and only the construction will then be based on a dispute agreement protocol between the Agency and the municipality concerned. The safety improvement measures implemented so far include road marking and road signs limiting the maximum permissible speed of movement between the Asphalt base and the start of the locality, road signs are also installed. Two emergency stops for heavy goods vehicles with emergency braking system are defined at 90th and 91st km on road III-208. Aytos, in the direction of Aytos, which are cleaned and processed. They are expected to be signaled with road signs, road lane with emergency braking facilities with additional sign The transit through road III-208 of heavy goods vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 12 tonnes is restricted. All these measures were implemented on the basis of a survey carried out on route III-208 in the section from km 82 to km 94 by an interdepartmental commission with representatives of the State Agency. The committee's minutes shall record the commitments of all responsible institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u318	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u319	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, first of all, thank you for the answer you gave me on the subject of designing and building the northern perimeter of the city of Aytos. I will directly tell you that we are not satisfied with your answer and that this problem will be put to your attention as long as necessary until we find a real solution to this regional problem. Because this problem does not concern only the municipalities of Aytos and Rouen, but is a problem of the district of Burgas, it is also a problem of the district of Varna. I had placed this problem from the stands of the Forty-fourth National Assembly to the attention of the then Minister of Regional Development..................... Mrs Petya Avramova.............................................................. Then, I warned from the National Assembly's stand, if urgent, adequate measures are not taken, there will be another accident, God forbid, with a fatal end. Why would I say anything else? Because in October 2020, there was another traffic accident, unfortunately, with a fatal end. Therefore, after the tragic incident that you mentioned, on 13 September last year, the patience of the people was really exhausted in the region, came out of a spontaneous protest, organized by themselves. There were thousands of people there were women, children, young people, elderly people. All they want is not to be afraid that tomorrow the same tragic accident could happen in this same place. Yes, to some extent, after the protest of the people, measures were taken both by the API and by the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, putting a stationary camera to measure speed, putting a ban sign that redirects all this heavy traffic this time through the municipalities of Rouen and Pomorie. But this, in turn, creates another problem in these two municipalities, because all this heavy traffic this time passes through the settlements of these two municipalities. I give you an example in the municipality of Rouen, in the village of Prosenic, where he passes, there is a school with 300 students. And what you said yes can also be taken such short-term, short-term measures, such as the construction of two circular intersections. One, as you said, on the Asphalt base, so that the speed of traffic can be regulated, the other at the site of the incident, so that it can provide time, again I say, for the design and construction of the northern perimeter of the city of Aytos, which will solve cardinally, general this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u320	Thank you, Mr. Ali. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u321	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I address the questioners. Perhaps because of the short time we need to answer and the quick reading of the question has not become clear, but I would like to repeat what I just said on the two main questions you are asking. The Road Infrastructure Agency... regarding the surrounding road of the city of Aytos is the only one responsible only after the local municipality has defined and alienated a route and made the idea design............................................... that is the law........................................................................................................................................................................................ Only then does this thing surrender to the Agency, entirely within the competence of the local council, then we conclude a tripartite agreement with which we undertake to build it within a certain time limit. Naturally, after the conclusion is planned in the budget and so on.. there is no escape from this budgetary discipline, but this is the way anyway. I mean, I understand you're dissatisfied. I can't oblige you to be satisfied, but we don't have the ball I'm trying to tell you. It's the same with circular intersections, they're inside the urbanized territory. When the project is prepared for them, when they are drawn up... I even had a meeting with fellow citizens I don't know if you're from Aytos, but I had a meeting on my reception days with fellow citizens of Aytos. They had developed one of them, their own project for these intersections by a licensed road design company, including with an embankment inside the circle, so that if they dropped the brakes of a heavy-duty vehicle, this hose could stop them. Because the main goal is not to wait years now until it does, and if and when it does this time, but to stop the heavy machine from running down a little further, as happened to this tragic accident. So really, if you have influence and opportunities in the sweeping municipality, let both issues be handled there. Then come to the Ministry and we'll do our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u322	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[The National Representative Nikolay Nankov wants the floor.]] Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u323	I'm sorry, but I'm just taking the lead. Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With all due respect to you, Madam President, to the question Mr. Ali and to the person who answered the question, but when my colleague Ivan Totev and I asked our question in our own regard, you interrupted me at the 18th second of the time delay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u324	No, in the third minute!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u325	Yeah, I had three minutes. Thirty seconds, one more time. Colleague Ali speaks by a minute and ten seconds more than the time allowed. I am convinced that you have made this curtsy towards him not because he is from your parliamentary group, but because you are distracted it is Friday afternoon, but let the archin be the same for all MPs, for all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u326	Thanks for the remark. That is exactly what it was, but since the problem was really serious, realizing that we were slightly exceeding the time, I also gave the minister the opportunity to answer for a lot more time than it is under the rules. Question from the MPs Sevim Ismail Ali, Esheref Kyasim Esheref and Fatme Hassan Ramadan regarding the state of Republican road I-6 Karnobat Here you are, Mrs. Ramadan, to present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u327	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Members of the National Assembly! Road I-6 Karnobat "Aytos" from km 449+012 from Karnobat city to km 485+704 district Vetren is a first-class road from the Republican road network in Burgas, carrying out a transport link with the municipalities of Karnobat, Sungurlare, Aytos, Rouen and Burgas. There is a major alternative bypass route of the highway "Trakiya" in the section from the town of Karnobat to the city of Bourgas. According to my information, the last complete rehabilitation of the road section was carried out in the distant 1995s, that is, exactly 26 years ago. Dear Minister, since now several partial repairs and patchings have been carried out on the pavement in various sections of the road section, which is, of course, very necessary, but unfortunately, does not solve the problem cardinally, as there is a highly detachable pavement with cracks and deformations, with numerous failed areas on the pavement. In this regard, our question to you is: are you providing for funds in the budget of MRDPD in the current 2022, as it has not yet been accepted to carry out basic rehabilitation and repair activities of the entire road section of Republican road I-6 Carnobat Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u328	Thank you, Mrs. Ramadan. Before I give the floor to Minister Karadjov, Mr. Nankov, the information I receive from my colleagues here is 3 minutes and 51 seconds. I really thank you for the remark, but I am trying very well to all the parliamentary groups and asking questions and answering, to give opportunity. Please, Minister Karadjov, give an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u329	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ali, Mr. Esheref and Mrs. Ramadan, before I start with my answer, the short answer is that it is not possible to start it now in 2022, and not because there is no funds, but because there are no projects ready to get a building permit. That's the shortest answer I can give you. In the process of preparation and validation is the Plan-Program for repair of sections of the Republican Road Network for 2022. In it are proposed and planned for major repairs about 54 km from the Republican road I-6 Karnobat. Burgas in the sections from km 428+200 to km 445+900 and so on, in the territory of the Burgas region to not read from kilometer to kilometer. In view of the lack of project collateralisation, the repair works are not provided for in the 2022 Programme. I would like to emphasise that in order to start construction works on the first-class road, it is first necessary to declare a public procurement for a technical project on the basis of which to improve the operational state of the track, to achieve safety and comfort of movement. In the case of finished design documentation, open procedures for the selection of construction and construction supervision will be announced and the necessary repair activities will then be started. In view of what is described at this stage, it is not possible to specify an exact date for the start of the basic repair. In the absence of a technical project, it is impossible, subject to legal provisions, to undertake major repairs within the meaning of the law of this section in the current 2022. Given the importance of road I-6, namely that it makes the transport connection with the municipalities of Karnobat, Aytos and Burgas and is an alternative route of the highway of Trakia, in the last three years in the section of the territory of Burgas are renovated nearly 11 km from the track, and at present the condition of this section of road I-6 is good.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u330	Thank you. For a line? Here you are, Mr. Esheref.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u331	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, really road I-6 Karnobat "Aytos" Burgas is a first-class road and is a major and alternative tour of the highway "Trakia" in the section from the town of Karnobat to the city of Bourgas and at the same time has an extremely intensive movement, as it takes over all the city by citizens, students, workers from the municipalities of Rouen, Aitos, Karnobat and Sungurlare to the district city and to the entire South Black Sea coast. At the same time, it is part of the connection of the highway "Trakiya" with Northeastern Bulgaria through the Aytos Pass. Indeed, Mr Minister, as you mentioned, the last more serious repair of the section in question was carried out in the beginning of March 2020, but it is not complete, unfortunately, and the problem has not been solved, as the problem with the continuation of the section in question has been solved, namely the road from the exit of the district of Vetren to the beginning of the city of Bourgas in both directions. Thank you for your answer, Minister, that you do realize that it is an important road and must be rehabilitated. Our request is in the fastest order to move on to design and to take urgent measures to fully complete rehabilitation and major repair of the entire area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u332	Thank you. Do you have a hole, Mr. Secretary? No, okay. I would just like to inform my fellow Members that today's parliamentary day is until 2:30, so we will proceed to this hour. There is a question from the National Representative Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev about the road Etropole village of Yamna. Here you are, dear Mr. Chenchev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u333	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister! I'll make a slight introduction. In principle, I should not be excited about this tribune, because I am not from yesterday in the Bulgarian Parliament, but the very worrying and, of course, timely questions put by all colleagues here are important and no one disputes this. As for the question that I have put to you here, it is about, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, indeed, the following thing: for this bread and ambulance to come to this village that we are talking about. This village is three neighborhoods, located in an extremely beautiful area, for many years its nickname is Little Switzerland. All MPs can order there the village of Yamna, over the town of Etropole. What's the problem? The problem is that even now I will read to you, it is part of Republican Road III-3701, which is Etropole Black Wit. There have been checks, they have found that the road is literally impenetrable. The check is nearly half a year ago. Now there's snow there, when the snow melts, imagine what will happen to this time. I've been there at least half a dozen times with heavy machinery, because otherwise you can't get to the top of these are wonderful, decent Bulgarian people, I say it without any courtesy. Because of the Kovid pandemic, many citizens from different municipalities prefer to buy property there and this is already happening, fortunately for the village, which in this way has at least doubled its inhabitants so far. So I'm asking you this question, Mr. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. I invite you, of course, in this case not only to invite you, but to ask you: if you can next week, Monday or Tuesday before the plenary days, to go with you there, to meet the people and to meet you, first, how we will get to the top and second, to get acquainted with the conditions. In addition to the fact that the road is in a tragic state, I am ending, Madam President, there are many landslides, they are not from now on, they are years old. So there need to release money for both road repair and for strengthening these landslides. Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. And I'm sorry for the delay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. It's okay. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, let's not be petty in seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u335	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chenchev, first of all, the short answer to your question is that my personal attitude is that I realize the importance of this time and if it were up to me personally, I would even, so to speak, bypass the Law to include it in the program. Unfortunately, I also have to say what I said to my colleagues before you "We have to have a project to process it for a construction permit, and only then can we start building. There is no such to date, and the bad condition of the road, again with a short answer, has not been repaired since the distant 1984. There is no way it can be in good condition. Otherwise you are right, Republican Road III-3701 Etropole Design needs to be commissioned and procedures for the selection of a builder and construction supervision should then be announced. A specific year for the award of the necessary activities I will be able to point out after the improvement of the Agency's repair programmes. Due to the long service period, its geographical location and climatic conditions over the years along the route there are areas with very large damage to the pavement and road construction. The condition of the road from the town of Etropole to the beginning of the village of Yamna is relatively satisfactory, without major damage to the pavement and road construction, but in the next section from the beginning to the end of the village of Yamna, the road floor is in very poor condition. We have included four landslides affecting the Republican road III-3701 Etropole Yamna in the Programme for 2022 at the appropriate kilometers and their strengthening is part of the Treaty No RD-3314 of 23 October 2019. The research and design works are carried out in three intermediate stages: alternative solutions, technical design and final transmission of the development of the phase. For each of the four landslides there are already submitted project documentation at the first intermediate stage, which was examined and adopted in October 2020 at the Expert Economic Council of the API. Projects have been prepared to modify the cadastral map and one removal of a proven factual error of the sections of the road. At present, there is an order for the four divisions to amend the cadastral map and the cadastral register. To strengthen the landslides of road III-3701 project materials are presented in the second stage. They shall be examined by API experts and subsequently submitted for adoption by this Expert Council. The last fourth landslide at km 16, on 9 July 2021, the contractor submitted the project documentation at the second intermediate stage, it has been examined and has already been adopted by the Expert Council. For the four sites an open tender procedure has been announced under the Public Procurement Act for the designation of a contractor for construction supervision in the performance of the reinforcement activities. The work of the committee has been completed and a decision by the API is to be issued. For the landslides of road III-3701 there is a need to proceed with a detailed development plan, parcel plan and implementation of procedures for expropriation of land. Upon completion of all co-ordination and estrangement procedures, prior consent will be made for construction in a landslide area and permission for construction by MRDP. Then we will be able to launch the implementation of the MRI to strengthen the landslides. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just five seconds. In view of the need for technological time and compliance with all regulatory requirements procedures, the strengthening of landslides can be included at the earliest in the Construction Programme of the construction season 2023.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u336	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u337	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be very brief so that my colleague can present the next question. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, honourable colleagues, for the landslides, there will be a reaction to this issue, it is extremely pressing. It's not good for the road, though. Set up a project, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, and if we can't find the money for the emergency repairs on this road to provide ambulance access, I'll tell you again: for the bread of these decent people, then, if possible, put them in emergency design, in emergency means, so that at least we can rehabilitate in some way this time until the project is drawn up. I know you'll do what you can. We are not only responsible for you and I, we are also responsible as institutions, so that Bulgarian citizens believe in what the different institutions do. Everything has to be in their name, and I believe it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-04.u338	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Anything to add, Mr. Karadjov? I won't. Thank you. Guys, I think we should call it a day. I'm sorry we won't get to Mr. Totev's next question, but we have two minutes left. We will proceed with questions under parliamentary control next Friday. The next regular parliament meeting will take place on Wednesday at 9:00. The National Assembly's work programme will be further defined. Have a nice day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
