ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u1	142 MPs have registered. There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Under the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for the period 11 May 2022: "1." First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on recognition, enforcement and enforcement of freezing of property. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 2. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on the provision of support for Greek military formations in connection with the implementation of a Marine Patrol Air Mission. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 3. Second vote on the Treaty ratification bill (Written for offer and acceptance of tender/Letter of Offer and Acceptance.OA) for supplement and amendment No 1 (Amendment No 1) to International Treaty (LOA) BU-P-AAD.Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II rockets, related materials and services (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missiles, associated material and services)............................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Council of Ministers adopted on the first vote on 6 April 2022. 4. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers.. Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs. It's a continuation of discussion. 5. Draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the Verification of the Circumstances that led to the suspension of natural gas from OOO "Gazprom Export" and the procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers from Bulgargaz "EAD." Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Conference of Presidents decided in the discussion on this point to discuss the Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for establishing all facts and circumstances regarding the actions and intentions of the Council of Ministers regarding the supply of natural gas to the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers "Peter Petrov and a group of MPs, so in point 5, we will have one discussion and two draft decisions to set up temporary committees. 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 7. First vote on the Bill for the recovery of claims on consumer contracts. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 8. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the consideration of all memorandums and letters of intent signed by the Government for the period from 12 May 2021 to 20 April 2022. Importers 9. First vote on the Bulgarian Language Bill. Importers.. Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs. 10. Draft decision on the obligation of the Court of Auditors to submit to the National Assembly a final audit report on compliance in the conclusion and implementation of the Public Procurement Contracts of the Road Infrastructure Agency on the design, construction and operation of an electronic charging system for the use of the Republican Road Network since the beginning of the design of the system by the end of 2020. Importers 11. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Friday from 9.00 to 11.00 12. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. This is the project I proposed. Please vote. Vote 176 MPs: 114 against 35, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. [[The National Representative Alexander Simidchiev wants a procedure.]] Please come in for a procedure, Doctor, before we proceed with the proposals under art. 47, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedure for the admission of Borislav Ganchev to Deputy Minister of Justice, who will replace Nadezhda Yordanova on item one and item six of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u3	Thank you, Dr. Simidchiev. I suggest that we first take down the proposals under art. 47, para. 3 and then we will go to the points of the program and allow Deputy Minister Ganchev. The proposals under art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are, as follows, four are common. A proposal for inclusion in the upcoming weekly programme of the Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for consideration of all memorandums and letters of intent, signed by members of the Council of Ministers for the period from 12 May to 20 April, has been received by the MP Desislava Atanasova. This draft decision is included in the Programme, but Dessislava Atanasova's proposal is to be fixed as the first item in the Programme, while the Programme that we have already adopted is under point eight. We are voting for this item to be first in the Programme. This is Dessislava Atanasova's proposal. Vote 189 MPs: 88, against 89, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov for inclusion as a point in the Programme of the Draft Decision on the obligation of the Court of Auditors to submit to the National Assembly a final audit report on compliance in the conclusion and implementation of the Public Procurement Contracts of the Agency Mr. Nenkov has not specified a specific place in the Programme where the draft decision is to be fixed, so that this request is actually met. The next request under art. 47, para. 3 is from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev and it is for inclusion in the Programme of the Draft Decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the Verification of the Circumstances, which led to the suspension of natural gas from the "Gazprom Export" and the procedure for selecting alternative suppliers from the "Bulgargaz" EAD. And this draft decision is listed in the Programme under point five. Mr. Dobrev has not indicated another specific place to fix the point, so this request has also been met. The latter in the order of art. 47, para. 3 is from Petar Petrov and a group of MPs to be included in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Value Added Tax. It is listed in the programme already adopted under point four as a proposal by colleagues from the parliamentary group of parties. However, this should be the first item in the Programme. So I vote on the proposal in the part where the first vote on the bill is to be shifted as the first item in the Programme. Vote 190 MPs: 88, against 42, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. With this we have exhausted the proposals under art. 47, para. 3. I'm reading a few messages before we move on to the items on the agenda. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that, for the purpose of carrying out preparation in order to achieve full operational capabilities of the establishment of a multinational combat group, it has authorised the passage through and stay on the territory of the country of servicemen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland with the necessary equipment, state weapons and military supplies. The notification was received on 9 May 2022 with entry No 47 203 09-47 and was made available to the Defence Commission. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the Programme Budgets as of 31 December 2021 from: the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, the Commission for Protection of Competition, the State Agency for State Reserves and Wartime Stocks and the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The reports shall be made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the relevant portfolio committees. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 21 March 2022. "20 April 2022 and Protocol No 14 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 26 April 2022, at which the Report is reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on: administrative and territorial division of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021; consumer surveillance in April 2022; turnover indexes in the section of the Department of Retail Trade, excluding trade in motor vehicles and motorcycles, in March 2022; industrial production indexes in March 2022; construction production indexes in March 2022. Now we move to point one of the program: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RECOGNITION, ENFORCEMENT AND RECOGNITION OF DECISIONS FOR THE RESTRUCTURING OF IMMUNITY. And before we move on to the Report, let's put to the vote Dr. Simidchiev's procedural proposal for access to the hall of Deputy Minister Borislav Ganchev, which concerns both point one and point six. Vote 170 MPs: 161, against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite Mr. Ganchev to the hall. Please come in for an affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u4	Mr. Chairman, at the end of last week it became known, and quite extremely, literally at the last moment that our Prime Minister will be visiting the United States. Literally in the last hours of last week it was announced that his visit would aim to negotiate various policies related to the gas problem in Bulgaria. Of course, we must say that this gas problem or gas issue is created only by the policies and actions of the Bulgarian government. The question arises as to how so suddenly the Bulgarian Prime Minister's trip was suddenly imposed, bearing in mind that it was clear from February 24th that the problem of gas will also have this problem, by the way, was calculated in advance in the damage and losses that the Bulgarian economy will suffer as a result of the sanctions that we, together with the other countries of the European Union, imposed on Russia. So it remains to answer the following several questions: 1. Is this visit of the Bulgarian Prime Minister by invitation or by calling? Because if it's by invitation, when you're invited, they respect you with the appropriate protocol. The Bulgarian Prime Minister was humiliated, however, and he was not really humiliated, but our country, because he represents all of us, at least under a Constitution. The level of his meetings was also and continues to be extremely low, especially against the backdrop of the fact that just 10 days ago in the United States was his colleague, the Prime Minister of Italy, and he met with the American President. The fact that his meetings with Secretary of State Blinken were later arranged, which, by the way, turned out to be online, and some very hasty conversation with Vice President Camila Harris, is indicative of the fact that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u5	Mr. Kostadinov, it's just another name for Mrs. Harris.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u6	What was it? Kamala! I mess up animal names sometimes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u7	Well. [[shouting in the hall: "Eee! "]] Mr. Kostadinov, not from the parliamentary tribune such insults to... after all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u8	To, uh...? From this point of view, there should be no comment on anything else other than that.................................................................................................. Because more and more stubborn talk is being made and it will continue to be said that the visit is not, in fact, for the purpose of solving the gas issue, which clearly cannot be solved with supplies of liquefied gas from the United States, at least not in the near future, but rather related to instructions regarding the future policies of the Bulgarian government for Macedonia. It is increasingly said in the public that it is a deal with which the Bulgarian society should be reassured that if we raise the veto over Macedonia for the beginning of its talks with the European Union on membership, we will get some mythical cheaper gas. That's obviously not gonna happen. Rather, at the moment we are all paying a tax of gas and oil tax to Bulgarian politics, to the Bulgarian government because of their unbiased loyalty to the mythical Euro-Atlantic values. The values are very good, but the pipes do not run valuables, the pipes run energy carriers and each one is the product of many years of negotiations and many years of economic policies, which have been conducted by a series of Bulgarian governments. If the Bulgarian government currently has a clear policy on what exactly alternatives we will be implementing, it must say them clearly, but say them before us, Bulgarian citizens, those people who voted for this government and those who did not vote but sent their representatives here because these policies must be commented and must be agreed with the MPs and the National Assembly. Otherwise, it will turn out that this was not a visit, but rather a call for instruction and it will turn out to be once again what from last week, we are talking about that this government no longer represents anyone but itself, of course, purely physically does not even represent the majority of its voters who do not share its policies, but only represents those who invited him to Washington. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. However, from the parliamentary tribune, let us not afford insults to representatives of foreign countries regardless of political bias or anything. After all, this is the tribune of the Bulgarian Parliament. Here you are, Mr. Mateev, to brief us on the Legal Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote At its regular meeting held on 20 April 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Recognition, Enforcement and Delivery of Measures for freezing of property, No 47-202-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2022. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Emil Dechev, Deputy Minister, and Mr. Aleksandar Stefanov, State Expert at the Department of Law and by the Commission for Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of the Illegally Acquired Property Mrs. Svetoslava Apostolova, Director of the Directorate, Mr. Valentin Dimitrov, Head of the Department, and Mrs. Victoria Kabakchieva, Expert. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Emil Dechev, who pointed out that it introduced measures on the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders. Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 is the first instrument directly applicable in the field of mutual recognition of criminal acts which aims to facilitate the cross-border recovery of assets and to speed up and simplify the freezing and confiscation of criminal assets in the European Union. The bill establishes uniform rules on the procedure for the recognition and enforcement of freezing orders issued by a Member State, the remedies for the persons concerned, as well as the issuing and sending of freezing orders for recognition and enforcement in another Member State bound by the Regulation. The Deputy Minister pointed out that the Bill defines the district courts as a national competent authority to recognise the freezing orders in the Republic of Bulgaria and the competence of the Sofia City Court is preserved only in a limited number of hypotheses. The Anti-Corruption Commission and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property are envisaged to carry out the management of the property secured in the recognition of a freezing order issued by another Member State of the European Union. The Bill also proposes amendments to the Law on recognition, enforcement and transmission of confiscation or revocation decisions and decisions on the imposition of financial penalties aimed at determining national authorities competent to operate as issuing authority within the meaning of the Regulation in respect of confiscation orders. The procedures to be developed before those authorities shall be laid down and the rules on the appeal of the definitions shall be laid down, the decisions on the recognition and enforcement of confiscation orders accordingly. The proposed legislative initiative does not have an impact on the state budget. The project does not harmonise with European law, but ensures the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805. The bill does not contain provisions relating to the introduction of regulatory regimes. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The People's Representative Krum Zarkov took part in the discussion of the Bill, who said he would support the proposed bill given the need to introduce the measures provided for in Regulation (EU) 2018/1805. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with 9 votes for.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Now follows the report of the Commission on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption. Will any of the representatives of the Anti-Corruption Commission introduce us to the Report? Mr. Kambarev? He's gone. Mr. Bachiysky? Is there no other representative of the Commission in this House? Colleagues, one from the Anti-Corruption Commission? Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u12	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on recognition, enforcement and enforcement of freezing of property with entry No 47-202-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2022. At its meeting held on 7 April 2022, the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Counter-Corruption Commission examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Recognition, Implementation and Delivery of Measures for the Protection of Property. The meeting of the Ministry of Justice was attended by Deputy Minister Emil Dechev. The Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the recognition, enforcement and enforcement of freezing of property acts aims at ensuring the effective application of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders by giving explicit arrangements to national authorities competent to operate as issuing or executing authority within the meaning of the Regulation and the procedures which are developed before them. Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 is the first instrument directly applicable in the field of mutual recognition of acts in criminal matters and the rules contained therein apply to all freezing and confiscation orders issued in criminal proceedings. The regulation aims at optimising the procedures for mutual recognition of those acts with a view to facilitating the cross-border recovery of property and speeding up and simplifying the freezing and confiscation of assets acquired from criminal activity in the European Union. It is based on the understanding that freezing and confiscation are among the most effective means of preventing and combating crime, including terrorism and organised crime. The implementation of the Regulation is expected to result in the withdrawal of more assets generated by criminal activity. In addition to the extended scope of the added value of this act, it is also to ensure effective protection of the right of victims of compensation and the return of property. Deputy Minister Dechev presented the idea of the amendments aimed, on the one hand, to achieve decentralisation in the implementation of the Law on Recognition, Enforcement and Delivery of Measures for freezing of property, i.e. to give jurisdiction to the district courts and not only to the Sofia City Court. He argued that a more specific situation has been taken into account with regard to the countries of Ireland and Denmark, which were not parties to the original Framework Decision, on the basis of which this law was transposed, but its provisions continue to apply. There is an opportunity to satisfy the interests of the victims of a crime first and the possibility is given to the CCPCONPI to manage the secured property and to be responsible for its conservation. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Alexander Nestorov, Georgi Georgiev and Dimitar Gochev. After the discussion, the Committee on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption, with 8 votes, with 8 votes in favour, without the opposition, and 4 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on recognition, enforcement and enforcement of acts for the provision of property with entry No 47-202-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2022. Chairman: Mihail Kambarev
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. I'm opening the discussion. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm going to do a brief procedure. Our report from the Committee on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption, which is unfortunately not uploaded to the National Assembly's website in its section on this particular bill, is missing a report posted on the website, and there is also no transcription of a meeting held, which is why it was impossible for me, as my MP, to adequately prepare for today's discussion and today's discussion, I suppose, also with the other colleagues. My procedure is for you, Mr President, not to vote in today's session on this bill, to postpone it until it is uploaded to the National Assembly's website the relevant report and transcript, as the site, I have always said it is informative and is quite well guided and please vote not to adopt this bill today, to postpone the vote for another day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u15	Thank you. [[Definitions outside microphones between President Nikola Minchev and MP Petar Petrov.]] It's a good thing this isn't the leading committee after all. Otherwise it was sent via e-mails to the MPs, also reminded me, and it's on the site. Although at the point you point out, it's really gone. I don't know why, we'll check that out afterwards, but it's not an obstacle to looking at the Bill. But really why is it missing in the section of the Report where the bill is... [[Reply from MP Petar Petrov.]] We'll see why this place is missing, but otherwise the report was sent by e-mail. For speeches on the first vote? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Personally, I am divided by the spirit of this legislative proposal because, on the one hand, I find it useful to arrange for the issuance and recognition of acts of Bulgarian courts in other Member States of the European Union, such as one part of the Bill, but on the other hand, for the cashier to recognise and execute acts of security and confiscation issued by authorities of other EU Member States, I find, to say the least, the proposal to transfer jurisdiction to the district courts of the Sofia City Court. Since these proceedings deal with acts of law enforcement bodies of other, foreign legal systems, other laws, and accordingly an assessment is made whether the act concerned constitutes a crime under the Bulgarian Penal Code, it should, at least in my opinion, seek some specialization of the relevant court to also examine the proceedings. The legislative proposal is justified by a request for the unloading of the Sofia City Court from its workload in such cases, but I unfortunately did not see any statistics on exactly how many cases the GCC would unload, how much it was charged in similar cases and what the relocation of these cases would achieve in the district courts. The fact stated in the ground that the district courts of the holding of the person who owns this property, which is of interest, are to rule on extradition requests and on requests for a European arrest warrant, is not sufficient for me to justify the transfer of jurisdiction and specifically those specific proceedings. I'll tell you why, because we're talking about a completely different matter here. If we pursue efficiency on requests for collateral and confiscation, I personally believe that the decision-making body, namely the court, should be a little far away from both parties and from the person requesting the freezing and confiscation and from the person who owns such property. The aim is to achieve one impartiality and one effectiveness. I therefore believe that the current legislative order is sufficiently objective and should not be changed by transferring this competence to the district courts. With regard to the opportunities created for the protection of each person concerned and the third conscientious persons, I see that an opportunity has been created for appeal against the acts given by the Bulgarian Court of Justice, but I do not understand personally why a cassation appeal has not been included. I do not understand why it is not included and the possibility to postpone the execution of the act of the Bulgarian court against the property which is subject to security or confiscation, as is possible in other national civil courts. I know that importers will justify the bill with the desire to implement Regulation (EU) 2018/1805, which has been applied since 2020, but it still leaves one freedom in individual Member States to choose the most adequate mechanisms and procedures to apply this Regulation at national level. Again, I am referring to the part where acts of foreign courts, of foreign law enforcement bodies in foreign criminal proceedings, are applied in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thus, I cannot agree with the reasons of the importer that, I quote: The expectations are that the implementation of the Regulation will lead to the withdrawal of more assets generated by criminal activity. "This cannot also be justified by making a legislative proposal in this Law to be the body to manage and supervise the secured and confiscated property in relation to European Union member states, criminal proceedings. For me this is absolutely inappropriate, as I believe that KPCONPI cannot be a good owner of such secured and confiscated property. The CPCONPI cannot effectively carry out this activity. It was just read that this bill will not lead to financial changes for the state budget. Thus, for the first time, I hear that a free storage, management and supervision of confiscated or secured property will be carried out in Bulgaria. This, of course, is not the case, always costs in this part of it. I believe that this cannot be entrusted to KPCONPI, moreover, that its activities in recent years seem to be unconvincing to society. It's a public secret that citizens' property is confiscated, only those small fish who couldn't organise protection against such confiscation. I therefore cannot agree that it must be entrusted to this particular legislative body, as we are, to accept that the CPCONPI will manage and supervise property which is subject to freezing and confiscation in relation to requests from other countries. Because, colleagues, while we on a national scale can settle our demands and seizures, I assure you that our so-called Euro-Atlantic partners are capable of seeking their rights and will seek them from the Bulgarian state when it turns out at a later point that this property is or is not protected or disappeared. So I personally do not see the effect of this bill. Last but not least, I cannot agree with the recent voting statistics that the report, especially by the Legal Committee, has been adopted by a total of 9 votes, which is why I will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to Peter Petrov? From Alexander Nestorov. Here you go, Mr. Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Petrov, I agree with most of what you have said, but I would like to add a few more reasons why this bill does not belong now and here. First of all, very interesting is the double archin of the government, saying that KKCONPI is a bat that provides assets without a sentence, and the same bill creates the same set-up not only by Bulgarian, but also by foreign law. Secondly, KPCONPI and currently manages the secured property under the PPC. Do you know how many such properties KKCONPI manages? Zero. Thirdly, the basis of this Regulation, 2018/1805, is actually EU Directive 2014/42, which is currently subject to change, as all the working groups have been completed, there is also a report submitted to the Commission. So I'm also not much of a fan of this bill right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u19	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Is there a second line to Peter Petrov? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague Nestorov, I am pleased to see that we are still talking about the spirit of the Bill, not in substance, namely to me the spirit of legislative change is vitiated, as at least the objectives that are proclaimed with its adoption will not be achieved. Of course, when it is said that the activities of KKCONPI do not result in the desired results, it is incomprehensible why it is given the opportunity to guard, manage and supervise even more property, provided that we have nowhere seen statistics on what is happening to the current managed and managed property. Once again, our so-called Euro-Atlantic partners know how to seek their rights if this property disappears or perishes for some local, Bulgarian, native reason, conditioned by our folksychology, so to call it. I therefore believe that there are too many vices in this bill and it will not meet the objectives that are being proclaimed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any other statements on the bill? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on recognition, enforcement and enforcement of freezing of property, No 47-202-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2022. The first vote. They voted 121 MPs: 96 against 4, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. With this, we have exhausted item one of the agenda. We move on to point two of the Programme, namely: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE MINISTERAGE OF THE RECEIVED REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE MINISTERATION OF THE NATIONAL RECEIVATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF IRELAND ON THE SUBSTITUTION OF THE MILK MILITARY FORM WITH REGARD TO THE ACCEPTANCE OF THE MISSION OF MARITIME PATRUL AVIATION. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 6 April 2022 A report came in from the Defence Committee. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov, to introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on providing support for a Greek military formation in connection with the implementation of the Marine Patrol Mission, No 47-202-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 April 2022. At a meeting held on 21 April 2022, the Defence Committee examined that draft. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the Minister of Defence Mr. Dragomir Zakov. The aim of the Agreement proposed for ratification is to define the basic principles, conditions and procedures for providing support on the territory of the host country................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The implementation of Marine Patrol Air Missions in the Black Sea Region is part of the measures to adapt the Alliance's front presence. The decision on the implementation of these measures was taken at the NATO Summit in Warsaw, held in 2016. During this meeting, the member states agreed to strengthen the presence of Union forces on the territory of the Southeast flank countries. The objective of the measures for adapted front presence is to increase the commitment and contribution to the deterrent and defence potential of the Alliance in the Black Sea region, to enhance situational awareness, interoperability and the possibility of responding to threats. In the context of the implementation of the adapted front presence measures, the Greek Party declares its intention to carry out Marine Patrol Air Missions. The contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria in this case includes the provision of air traffic services and the provision of air support and air crew support to the Greek air force at Bezmer Military Airport. Vice-President Nikolay Drenchev took part in the discussion from the members of the Defence Committee. Following the end of the discussion, a vote was held in which, with 14 votes for a vote, without a vote, the Defence Committee proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on providing support for a Greek military company in connection with the implementation of the Maritime Patrol Mission, No 47-202-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 April 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's about enabling a Greek patrol plane from Bezmer Air Base to conduct reconnaissance flights in the Black Sea aquatory. It's a long deal. The bill itself, which we are proposing, comes from a member of the Board, but it also contains several anexes. I'd like to start backwards. What we ratify will also include a price signature for the services and products provided. In the Defence Committee, I asked who precisely fixed these prices, because they are quite impractical. They seem cheap to me before the current inflation and the rise in fuel prices, but at the moment they are shockingly low. I think it would not be right in this agreement to fix any prices of services offered by our machines in terms of Greek aviation, Greek aircraft in terms of fuel charging, oils, different gases that are used, discharge electricity, fire services, ambulances, etc. I think this thing should be put in a separate regulation and be subject to some update, which should take place not through a law in the National Assembly, but at a local level with an order, with a proposal prepared by the financiers at the Bezmer Air Base, and by order of the head of the base. Reference values may be used in relation to the prices at civil airports. And backwards saying, I think specifically the annexes to this treaty are too comprehensive and we should put them in a separate regulation so that they are more flexible to change if needed. It is evident that there is such a need even before this treaty is ratified. That's the smaller problem. The more serious problem is the second, there is also a third, the second problem is that, in fact, since 2016, this decision of the Alliance for Front Entrepreneurs and it is now being activated precisely in the light of the fighting actions that are taking place in the territory of Ukraine. It's more or less involved, if not directly in combat, at least by gathering intelligence. With regard to our aviation, we see how the Hellenic Republic, which is a country similar to our territory, by population, by gross domestic product, but in fact they have much better opportunities of intelligence aviation. From this point of view, as far as we are allies at the moment, it would be wise to think about it, and I will make such a proposal between first and second readings so as to discuss, possibly, and to enter into the final version, what is good for the flight This will enable us, as members of the Alliance, who do not yet have this intelligence technique, to familiarize ourselves with the capabilities of this technique, respectively, to know the limitations, and also to use the opportunities that this technique provides, and the information that this technique gathers. That's what I say in my capacity as a former officer and a man who cares about aviation. Really close attitude and participation on board the plane of Bulgarian military will contribute to improving the combat capabilities and in general understanding of the interaction of the different types of troops, of the different types of aviation in the interaction of the battlefield. This is also the second argument, which is technically along with prices, because it would not be right for the Bulgarian people to pay for NATO patrolling the Black Sea. This should be according to the terminology of the sending country, i.e. Greece. And my most important argument, which actually makes me at first reading, and perhaps at second reading, not to support this bill, is precisely the moment it is triggered. It is obvious that this plane will not patrol off the coast of Bulgaria or the coast of Turkey. It will be sent to the north of the Black Sea. He'll monitor the aquatory, monitor the Russian ships, monitor communications not only on radio stations, but on all the radio electronic systems that interact. There will be an opportunity to see far inside the territory of Ukraine and Moldova. What's a problem in this case, it's the modern war, it's as much fire, as it's information. The entry at this very moment is the activation of patrol aviation, which will take off from our territory and will scout the action, albeit indirectly, represents an indirect involvement of Bulgaria in the war. That's another step in the wrong direction. It would have been a good idea if 2016 had been realized when it was designed. Today this represents the pressure of the thin ice we walk on, pouring more weight on it, and we do not know at what point this ice will crack. So the really most sensible thing that Bulgaria could do in view of the resources it has, given the aviation it has at the moment, is not to engage further in action, albeit intelligence, that is to say, indirect fiery influence on the territory of Ukraine, but it is about intelligence actions that will obviously be detrimental to the Russian operation there. And it seems far more reasonable to me in parliamentary activity to deal with energy prices, galloping inflation, bread prices, fertilizers with things that really have a very direct bearing on the lives of every Bulgarian citizen. And Greece's patrol aviation in the Black Sea, we could safely leave it to a more back-up at a time when we could more calmly develop not only Greece's defence potential, but also take full advantage of our membership and participation in NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u25	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. There are lines from Blagovest Belev and from Lubomir Karimansky. Here you go, Mr. Belev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Drenchev, you've just given me some hope that you've had catharsis, and you've rushed to disprove me. Your speech was divided into two parts. An expert, which I respect very much and thank you for paying attention to these things when it comes to discussing them in the Commission, I think your arguments are extremely reasonable. The second part, however, brought me back to reality and reality. Please stop feeding people's fears with insane arguments that Bulgaria, by doing something, is going into war. These are acts I mean this bill. These are acts that must give the Ministry of Defence a mandate to do its job. So the most logical thing is to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. Belev. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Drenchev! I didn't mean to take the floor for a line, but I did it because of the untruths you claim from this tribune. First, Greece's gross domestic product has nothing to do with Bulgaria's gross domestic product. There's a big difference between one and the other. Make your reference and see that the two gross domestic products cannot even be compared at this stage. First, this. Secondly, if we compare households, gross domestic product also has nothing to do with it. That's why I don't accept the untruths of this tribune. The gross domestic product of Greece is far greater than Bulgaria. Please do not use things that are not clear to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u29	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Third line from Atanas Slavov. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Drenchev, my line is in the spirit of what Professor Belev says, but I will also add the following: The conclusion of international agreements and their ratification is a strictly regulated process. When we want to bring any changes to an international treaty already concluded, this can only happen in the way of a re-negotiation of the entire treaty, that is, when we are in a ratification procedure, we can make any changes, that is, we vote for or against, we accept or do not accept ratification. Is this ratification of Bulgaria necessary? You yourself pointed out as an expert in the military case that we have limited intelligence capacity, especially air reconnaissance. If it is true that this Greek aircraft will carry out reconnaissance activities, the better for Bulgaria, because Bulgaria is several hundred kilometers from the military action, not Greece. If this plane gives information to Bulgaria and NATO partners what is happening in the northern aquatory of the Black Sea, the more protected we are and this is in our national interest. So, of course, "Democratic Bulgaria" will support the Bill and I believe it is only an increase in our capacity to respond to Russia's aggressive behaviour if necessary if it is directed against us or another country of the Alliance, and it is not in any way an aggravation of Bulgarian capacity. The more we have the presence of allies in Bulgaria, the more protected we are. This is the principle in NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u31	Thank you, Professor Slavov. Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u32	Thanks for the lines. The truth is, a reconnaissance plane is an extremely powerful, extremely scary weapon. When I was piloting a fighter, we were developing a regiment exercise, 48 planes in the air, then this Greek plane in question was our potential opponent, it had very great opportunities, flying far into the Mediterranean, to see what was going on in the South European theatre of military action. He could track the planes from Gabrovo as they took off, track tanks on the ground, track trucks, track trains, monitor all communication. Our first task of doing this to us, in 1991 and until 1989, was that when such a plane appeared in southern Greece, we would do our best or he would go further so that he couldn't follow us, or attack him and bring him down. 40 planes do an operation, connect the enemy's fighters who cover it up, link it into a fight, participate to go out a couple with the missiles to succeed in hitting it, because it is a great danger in general to the opponent. Surely the Russian military, when they see this plane, won't be happy at all. They'll follow him from start to finish. I don't want to predict what they think, what they could or what plans they're making for him, but it's war there's war, people are dying there, which, thank God, we still don't. But we're always touching the stove and trying to find out if it's money. Yeah, it's hot! Yeah, we'll burn ourselves if we're not careful. That's one. The other thing is that the prices that we have offered the Greeks for fueling are from years ago. Bulgarian pensioners, Bulgarian students, Bulgarian patients will pay for a Greek intelligence plane to patrol the northern Black Sea. After all, assuming that this treaty is not suitable, if it is vicious, we could safely return it to the Council of Ministers, remake it, so that what is for a bill, is a bill, and what is by regulations, to pass things so that they are flexible to be comfortable. And lastly, the most important thing we should in any case look at our own national interest. We need to develop our armed forces, we need to develop our aviation. All right, we're NATO members! Okay, we have some intelligence aviation coming up on our feet, which will take off from Bezmer Airbase, let's bring officers into this staff, liaison officers, intelligence officers who can see what this aircraft is doing, who can use this information, which can use the Bulgarian country, the Bulgarian armed forces. We have to take every opportunity, because we're really down on our knees right now. We have a very pathetic picture in terms of aviation, not only of the fighter, but of intelligence and transportation and of any other. So we really need to take advantage of this, and this does not happen by ratifying the fist of every thought of the Council of Ministers, but by carefully looking at the details. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u33	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u34	Mr. President, it is extremely exciting in this House when it comes to Euro-Atlantic values and partnership with NATO and the European Union, but let us say what the facts are today regarding national security and how much we respect the Constitution that the Bulgarian Army guarantees our national security and integrity of our country. Currently there will be a total of seven foreign armed forces in Bulgaria. To date, four military bases with an un-known number of U.S. servicemen, as there is an airport on which airplanes are landing and taking off, and no one knows exactly what and how many people there are at the moment. Spain and the Netherlands have combat planes in Bulgaria that are on duty, according to their words, constantly. We are currently commenting on the Greek armed forces. There is a NATO decision on which a military battalion of English servicemen will be sent under the direct leadership of Italian officers, and here follows the big one - it is a national insult that even an Albanian battalion will be deployed in Bulgaria. I'm so sorry. From this tribune, I would like to say that we, as sovereign, at least under Constitution, state, have no sovereignty at all, given that we have seven foreign armed forces stationed on our territory. If tomorrow someone decides something to do with our technique and our armed forces, we in no way and the Bulgarian army could guarantee national security. That is why once again here is put to the vote from our budget to comment and to give money for a Greek plane. [[Replication from BSP for Bulgaria: "Ama Greece will pay. "]] It was very easy here for Mr. Karimanski to get up and talk about gross domestic product and to hold on to Mr. Danchev's speech, but I mean that here we are discussing prices to pay fuel and you will now approve because we at AGE will not approve this thing, prices that will subsequently need to be updated.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ganev, in one sentence you made two mutually exclusive statements. On the one hand, you claim that the Bulgarian state would pay the Greek air force. On the other hand, you claim that the prices at which they would pay their fuel were very low. Please specify what you think is leading and stop speculating that something in the budget will be wrongly paid. There's no such payment. The Greek side takes all the support of the contingent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u37	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Are there any other lines? Docent Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ganev, in your speech you made some mistakes. First, you said there would be an English battalion, then an Albanian battalion. No, there will be no English, Albanian battalion in Bulgaria. I wish there was, but there won't be. [[Laughter]] I wish there was an Italian battalion with an American battalion. Even if more allied forces in Bulgaria can, the better for our security, strengthening our own army. But there will be a multinational battle group that is now formed, with forces that are both Bulgarian and English and Albanian and Italian and American. And it is good for Bulgaria, it is good for the Bulgarian Army because it allows it to train the Bulgarian Army, allows it to raise its capacity. We have to make a note of this. At the beginning of the year, as you remember, there was talk of a NATO battalion battle group, i.e. we take a Bulgarian battalion and rebrand it simply as NATO and it increases our security. No, he's not. When we have allies, then together, training, we have the opportunity to increase our capacity and our security, so let's not speculate on the facts that are very clear. When we are in a collective military union, we are talking about collective security, we are talking about shared sovereignty, and you may forget the Constitutional Court's Decision, which says that NATO forces in Bulgaria and NATO forces are not foreign forces at all, they are allied forces and I ask that we be correct to the Constitution and to the Constitutional Court's practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u39	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Is there a third line? Here you go, Mr. Panev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ganev, when the discussions were on the state budget a few months ago, you defended the thesis that defence spending was too high and that money went to NATO in a kind of way. [[(Relations from ARGUING:) That is not true! That's not true!]] Now you're defending the argument that our army isn't fighting enough. Which one is true? Thank you. [[Breeding lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u41	Thank you, Mr. Panev. For the doppelganger, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u42	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Zafirov, you obviously didn't read the document as chairman of the Military Commission, but you didn't read anything because there is a clear and accurate price list in Annex D. It's good to read because you're the chairman of the Defence Committee. [[(Replication of Atanas Zafirov: Where does it say that the Bulgarian country will pay?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u43	Mr. Zafirov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u44	In the price list in question, there are prices in the price list attached [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria: "Why are you lying?"]] Which are way lower than what it is right now! This gives reason to this document, Mr. Zafirov, which you have not read, although you are Chairman of the Defence Committee, and you are not aware of, yet you defend it with your Euro-Atlantic values. There's a price list, prices, I'd like to say that this plane is not the hybrid car of someone from the Democratic Bulgaria. It's a plane that has huge costs, and we're gonna have to pay. With regard to the two prominent Euro-Atlantics of the Center I was going to say Bulgaria, let it be Bulgaria, see, your Euro-Atlantic values are not the values of the Bulgarian people. What you're saying is not true. [[Replies from... Democratic Bulgaria.]] That you want foreign troops to have in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian people do not want it. 45 years of communism in Bulgaria and there have been no foreign battalions for anyone, and you want foreign battalions to sit here right now. [[DB lines.]] You want us not to have national security, you want our planes to be Spanish, Dutch and all the others, but these are not the demands of the Bulgarian people. As far as the last lie expressed by this tribune of those respected by some Mr. Panev is concerned, I would like to say that aging clearly and accurately said that the money provided for the defence is many times less, and here we are talking that you want together with your coalition Euro-Atlantic partners from BSP, to give money for a foreign army and to pay for the fuel of a Greek plane to explore the Russian country, and the next moment when there are provocations, your same Euro-Atlantic partners together with your entire coalition will justify it. I don't know how! That's the difference between you and us. The fact that you're lying and explaining...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u45	Mr. Ganev, let's respect our colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u46	...that you should have this whole thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u47	Let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u48	Look, please don't interrupt me, because you didn't interrupt Panev when he was lying from that stand! At least be correct when you're interrupting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u49	But he's not insulting you, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u50	So I am asking you very much what is explained here by the BSP, by the chairman of a committee who has not read........................... hasn't read! He's going to vote, he's got a price tag, he's talking about severe incompetence. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to say again, to the Democratic Bulgaria in quotes, for them this thing that you want, we don't want it. Moreover, we will be the ones who, in a few months, will call a referendum on whether to continue to be in this thing called NATO. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u51	Mr. Ganev, I remind you that we must treat everyone in this room with respect and beyond. For a personal explanation, Mr. Zafirov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u52	I've read it, Mr. Ganev, calm down. The very fact that there's a price signature that you're waving here from this tribune, what does it say? Someone's gonna pay for that price tag. Who's gonna pay for this price tag? The Bulgarian state or the Greek side? That is why I told you that you simply contradict each other, speak lies, allow yourself an unacceptable tone for Bulgarian MP and did an honest manipulation and lie. And here I say again, since there's a price sign that you're waving around, tell me who this price sign refers to, who's going to pay for this price sign? Why are you lying from this tribune that the Bulgarian state will pay the Greek side for the maintenance of this plane?! [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria and DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u53	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. [[The National Representative Tsoncho Ganev wants the floor for procedure.]] Wait your turn, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Popov is before you, then I will give the floor to Mr. Svilensky and then Mr. Ganev also for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u54	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Please, when such a tone is held here by this tribune, Members of Parliament are offended, regardless of which parliamentary group, and it should be observed. And it's not Mr. Tsoncho Ganev who determines who's competent and who's incompetent. He should first read his papers before waving them here, because it is easily waved, but it takes effort to read the documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u55	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Svilensky, and you for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is more like it for you. I'm really asking you to take action. The plenary hall is still the working environment of the Bulgarian MPs and we need to work in a normal atmosphere. These decibels, which are placed on the speakers, or the MPs, when they are not in control, cause irreparable damage to the health of the MPs and to the media, I suppose, who record and listen. My request is to reduce the volume of the sound system. It's really unbearable on the other side. Perhaps you do not hear this thing, but all colleagues in the Chamber can confirm that the situation for work is not normal. And now, when someone talks normally, quietly, quietly, be in normal decibels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u57	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Ganev is also on trial. I hope you're not going into controversy with Mr. Zafirov, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u58	Mr. Chairman, on the contrary, it's you I'm talking about. Mr. Zafirov, I won't comment on it. There are documents, there is a price signature, its manipulations and lies in particular I will not comment on them anymore, but extremely bad impression you make when you specifically lead the National Assembly, allowing yourself no double archin, allowing yourself to have an attitude towards the opposition. Not trendy, it's a complete mockery of the opposition. Why? Because just before me, Mr. Panev told some lies, and then I got up to replicate it. Normally, I disagree, they're lies to me, and I said they were lies. You're interrupting me. I didn't insult him in any way. I said they were lies, but you're interrupting me. Let's say that this is your archin, after which it becomes Mr. Zafirov and explains that I have lied and are lying, but you look at him as a cherub and say nothing. Those are double arsins. Either you will interrupt in such a situation both sides because you are presiding over the National Assembly and you cannot afford to have double archin, or you will allow both sides to do so. In this case, once again you show attitude towards the opposition. At other times, it has happened in the same way, even allowing yourself to impose punishment in the case of me, for things for which by your coalition the same things you ignore them. On the contrary, you don't even pay attention. So I ask you very much, you are presiding, you sit at the highest post, let the arches be the same, and let you judge justly against all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. I think that's what I do. To your parliamentary group, I am only making remarks to you because you are actually allowing yourself in your speeches to violate the good tone, and you are doing it quite harshly, as you said, so you have been punished. Mr. Kostadinov, your group has no more time. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Alexandrov, for a statement you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! There is no doubt that in this environment a large part of society has serious concerns at all regarding the development of war and conflict and related to these decisions that are taken in our country, but first of all I would like to say that the prices that we have spoken about cannot be higher than the prices that are in the country concerned. Also from the SOFA Agreement, which was an Agreement of Cooperation between the partner countries and all regulatory documents regarding the presence, services and so on in a given territory, so is the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the presence of troops of such countries, a protocol which was concluded as early as 1953, the prices of these services, materials as they are in the country itself. That's how it's always worked. This is not a situation like many years ago, perhaps here some remember that the prices for hotels for Bulgarians were one thing, and the prices for foreigners were quite different, so I do not think that this is a serious argument. There are competent authorities, they have determined what prices are, and so is with regard to the Open Sky for surveillance of the territory. The second element is not necessary to regulate in a certification contract the presence of our servicemen on this plane. Let us be sure that colleagues who doubt that this can be achieved and will probably be because this is also important for our Air Force, officers, technical staff and so on, it is not necessary to regulate this inside. But in the whole context, I would like to say this: in order for the Navy of our country to carry out their tasks, maritime security missions and give this familiar picture at any moment to the forces and resources of the fleet that may react to any danger, it is necessary that there really is at any given time such an familiar picture. We have a Centre for Maritime sovereignty, which was established in 2011. It is about the performance of functions, missions and tasks, which are related not only in national terms, but also in collective terms, as far as the maritime space, our adjoining sea space, both in the air and on the sea surface, and underwater can be observed at any time. In 2019 and 2020, two more elements were created and the last element is this coordination centre that we are talking about. It is, of course, important, performing some functions, but has not yet developed its operational capacity. It cannot, throughout the sea surface of the Allied States, Romania and Turkey fully implement this coordination that is necessary. This agreement was therefore concluded as early as 2016, in mid-year July, when the situation was not like this. And this ratification comes as an element of this necessity until the full capacity of our centre is developed until it is certified, and it is not such a short process, a long process until the ability to exchange classified information in this environment is acquired. It is precisely this that requires this aircraft of patrol aviation to perform functions in this aquatoria, the adjacent zone and to exchange information with the Centre in Romania, the Centre in Turkey, so that national interests and collective interests regarding the maritime area can be protected to the greatest extent. Again, in the air, on the sea surface and underwater. What are our abilities outside those centers that I mentioned? Well, we had three helicopters, and Mr. Panchev, and the other colleagues who said that the long-standing understatement of our experience in certain operational capabilities of the Bulgarian Army, which today increasingly go on the foreground as necessary, simply with this practice, must be completed and really take strong, responsible, state decisions regarding all types of armed forces, in terms of collective planning, in order to really all that is defined in the Constitution of the Armed Forces, to be able to carry it out in national and collective terms. Therefore, I think that this agreement should be ratified and I call on it to be ratified, because it will really give another opportunity, together with those capabilities it provides to protect our security, will also give our officers, sergeants, military technical staff, aviation professionals direct access to this base Bezmer, where the aircraft will be served, for better monitoring, preparation and joint action with our southern neighbour, and our ally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u61	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Other speeches, colleagues, are there any? There are no other people who want to make a statement. I'm calling off the discussion. [[The National Representative Nikolai Drenchev is going to the stands.]] Mr. Drenchev, you? Mr. Drenchev, your group is running out of time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u62	I know there's no time. [[Reference between the National Representative Nikolay Drenchev and the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u63	Colleagues, please take your seats. I put to the vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on providing support for Greek military formations in connection with the implementation of a Marine Patrol Air Mission. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Zafirov, for procedure? Here you go. Colleagues, please remain in this Chamber as the procedure may require a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As much as we are currently discussing ratification of an agreement, not the very text of the Agreement and this ratification came at first reading, applications have been made here from the stands for changing the text of the agreement itself, which is not within the scope of the work of the National Assembly. I believe that on the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I can propose that the newly voted ratification be adopted at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u65	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Mr. Drenchev, for a reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making a reverse offer. It is obvious that the Agreement is at some level problematic.. there are many moments that can be cleared. I call on: more MPs to get acquainted with it; to get acquainted with the details; to think about what the Bulgarian interests really are, the Bulgarian goals; to reconsider it in the Council of Ministers to return to the Council of Ministers. This is an hypothesis that is possible to happen and to make such an agreement that fully corresponds to our interests, not even as much in terms of the prices that we talked about basically as in terms of the way, of tactics, of the strategy in the use of intelligence. It seems to me that this has its arguments. It may be that when the degree of tension falls a little bit, it can be considered with greater attention from more MPs to read it, to get acquainted and to think about it. From this point of view, it is quite reasonable that between first and second reading it is good to have more time. My suggestion is that we leave for a second reading at some point when we have had more time for more MPs to get acquainted with the essence of what we are about to ratify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u67	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. I merely specify that the Bill cannot be returned to the House of Presidents, he has already been passed in the first vote. On the other hand, your current statement gives me the impression that if there are going to be proposals, they will be on the text of the agreement itself, which objectively cannot happen. [[Related to the side of the microphones between the MPs Atanas Zafirov and Nikolay Drenchev.]] Wait a minute, guys. Colleagues, please don't go into controversy. Mr. Drenchev, we heard your procedure. Now let's hear Mr. Zafirov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u68	Colleagues, although I believe that the arguments I have put forward are absolutely correct, because there is no way to make changes on ratification, there is no way to return it to the Council of Ministers, as it has already passed at first reading, and of course the House may not accept it at second reading, but in a spirit of parliamentaryism, I withdraw my procedural proposal to dialogue. I am making a new procedural proposal to shorten the period between first and second readings to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u69	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Does Mr. Zafirov's new proposal have a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed proposal for proposals between the two readings to be three days. They voted 115 MPs: for 101, against 12, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT (COMMITMENT No 1) TO THE INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT (LOA) BU-P-AAD.SIDEWINDER AIM 9X BLOC II RETURNS FOR REFUNDED AND MOVEMENT (SIDEWINDER AIM 9X BLOCK II MISSILES, ASSOCIATED MATERIAL AND SERVICES) It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022. A report came in from the Defence Committee. Mr. Alexandrov, you have the floor to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Report on the Law on ratification of the Treaty (Written for offer and acceptance of offer/allower of Offer and Acceptance.OA) on supplement and amendment No 1 (Amendment No 1) to International Treaty (LOA) BU-P-AAD.Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II rockets, related materials and services (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missions, associated material and services), No 47-202-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2022, adopted on the first vote on 6 April 2022. "Amendment No 1' to the International Treaty (LOA) BU-P-AAD "Sidewinder AIM 9X block II rockets related materials and services' (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missiles, associated material and services). The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Under art. 1 has a proposal of the MP Alexander Alexandrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. Ratiment of the Treaty (Amendment No 1) to the International Contract (LOA) BU-P-AAD "Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II rockets, related materials and services "Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II" (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missions, associated material and services) signed on 20 May 2021 in the United States European Command in Europe, Bulgaria. Stuttgart, the Federal Republic of Germany, and on 9 December 2021 in the city of Stuttgart. Sofia, Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u71	Here you are for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u72	Under art. 2 there is a proposal of the MP Alexander Alexandrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. Orders on grounds of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the contract under art. 1 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u73	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. I am opening a discussion on the name of the Law, art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, I will put to the vote the name of the bill, art. 1 in the version of the Commission and art. 2 also in the version of the Commission, as it was read by Mr. Alexandrov. They voted 104 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. Please, Mr. Alexandrov, continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. "Paragraph" is the only one. The Commission shall support the importer's text for a single paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u75	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. I am opening a discussion on the name of the division as well as a single paragraph of the final provision. Is there a wish to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. I shall put to the vote the name of the subdivision which is registered by importer and the single paragraph which is also by importer. They voted 106 MPs: 79, none, abstention 27. With this, the proposal was adopted by the Law of the Second Voting. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in this row. Importers.. Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs. This is a continuation of the discussion, colleagues. Continued the discussion of a meeting held on 24 March this year. Speeches made Rumen Gechev, Hassan Ademov, Iskren Mitev and Iskra Mihaylova. I'm resubming the discussion. Are there any people who want to make a statement, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Abrovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u76	By procedure, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u77	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u78	Since the hearing today and the debates on the Value Added Tax Act have an extremely financial impact, please give half an hour's rest and allow the Minister or Deputy Minister of Finance to be present so that we can debate with them, as this concerns the finances of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u79	Mr. Abrovski, would you like to clarify a holiday on behalf of a parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u80	No, you give a break and call a minister or a deputy minister. If you don't want to give a break, then on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u81	Okay, Mr. Abrovsky. Twenty minutes rest on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u82	Colleagues, we're continuing the hearing. The Ministry of Finance is informed of their desire to be present. We do not have a clear answer, but at the same time we cannot continue to extend the rest, so I am opening the continuation of the discussion on the Bill. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As honourable Members, you know, VAT is an extremely important topic. Reducing food VAT is something that for the first time there is such a people who have proposed, and personally I have tabled as a bill in the Forty-sixth National Assembly. Unfortunately, and then, and now, in the context of the budget debate, because in the framework of the budget debate, I also made a proposal for VAT for fruits and vegetables to become 9%, I met a firm refusal by the Ministry of Finance. And as the Minister of Finance's media appearances are mentioned, so at least I realized that there would be an opportunity, I would like to suggest that this point be postponed and become the first point for tomorrow to enable the Ministry of Finance to come and participate constructively in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u84	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. I'm afraid there's no way I can do that, but if you want, the other thing we can do is plan a 11:30 break anyway, we have to give it up. We have to give it because there is an exhibition planned for 50 years Golden Varna and we could...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u85	Why don't we put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u86	Yeah, yeah, I got it. I'm just offering you an alternative, since maybe there's a chance until 12:00, when the official break is over, the Ministry will come and I would suggest if that didn't happen, then let's propose the solution. Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u87	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u88	I suggest, however, there are a few more minutes, there may be a statement in the meantime, if you wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u89	Permission procedure to vote now or after the break...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u90	I propose that after the break we make the assumption, as I do not think there are enough MPs in the Chamber to do so. Colleagues, I suggest, then, I will read the announcement for the exhibition, then I will give the official holiday and in the meantime we will ask for once again a representative of the Ministry of Finance, and we will ask for a clear answer anyway.. Will they come or not? So, at 11.30 in the Club of the National Representative will be opened an exhibition under the title of "Zlatna Varna" 50 years old. The exhibition presents exhibits of Varna gold treasure known as the oldest gold in the world, which became a symbol of Varna and Bulgaria. The exhibition is initiated by MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ, the parliamentary group of The exhibition was realized with the support of the Municipality of Varna and the Regional Historical Museum of Varna. All MPs are invited to the event. I'm calling a break until 12:00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u91	I'm resuming the hearing. We've contacted the Ministry of Finance. They have no opportunity to send either a minister or a deputy minister for the consideration of this bill. Here you go, Mr. Abrovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I support and I want you to put to the vote my proposal to change the agenda and to shift this item to tomorrow as item one to allow a representative of the Ministry of Finance to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u93	Okay. Your procedural proposal is to consider the item as item one on the agenda for Thursday. Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. I put to the vote the procedural proposal of Plamen Abrovski point four of the Programme "First vote on the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Ank Added Value Act" a continuation of the already launched discussion to be considered tomorrow as item one of the agenda for Thursday. They voted 159 MPs: 87, against 7, abstention 65. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u94	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u95	We're revising Plamen Abrovski's procedural proposal. Vote 172 MPs: 88 against 13, abstention 71. The motion is accepted. That point is due tomorrow. Here you are, Mrs. Ivanova, for a procedure before we move on to the next item of the program.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have the young people from the national youth organizations visiting us, and I would like to congratulate them. They had a youth conference. [[Applause.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Ivanova. Now we're going to point five of the program: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE EMPLOYMENT OF ASSISTANCES TO SPEND THE NATURAL GAS FROM OO Importers are Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. PROJECT OF A DECISION ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE CONSUMERING OF ALL FACTS AND FACTS ON THE ACTIONS AND FINES OF THE MINISTERING COUNCIL WITH REGARD TO THE DELIVERYS OF A NATURE GAS FOR THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importers are Petar Petrov and a group of MPs. In a joint discussion, we will consider both draft decisions for the establishment of temporary committees. I'm opening the discussion on both projects. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposal is dictated by the fact that since the end of April Bulgaria receives Russian gas again, only that it pays 30% more for it, it actually pays about 30 euros more for it. We want to find out in this temporary committee why this situation has come to light. What forced the suspension of payments from the Bulgarian side to the "Gazprom Export"? Why is it that only Bulgaria and Poland were actually stopped by today, which is not the worst in this case, but we want to understand how it happened that several gas suppliers were selected in the days immediately after the gas stopped by Russia? One of the companies is already known in Bulgaria the company MET, which he worked for until the day he was appointed director of the state company, the current director of How was this firm chosen? What are the e-mails that were sent? Why do we pay 100 euros instead of 75 euros and over 100 euros for the same Russian gas? To prove clearly in this committee, including the deputy prime minister, who claims that the gas was from the Southern Gas Corridor, that there is not a single molecule of gas from the Southern Gas Corridor and one hundred percent of this gas is Russian, only that it was passed through a Greek mediator, the "Bulgargaz" which is called DEPA, and of course, the favorite mediator of power MET. Why not use the gas trading platforms, which are two in Bulgaria - there is also a state one - there is a private one. Tenders not only for the three days at the end of April, but for the whole month of May were not published on these platforms. What else could be the goal besides taking commissions? These commissions and this price difference amount to 110 million. lv. a month. 110 million. lv. is what Bulgarian society and Bulgarian consumers will pay for this choice of intermediaries and for this way Bulgaria buys gas only in May. We believe that, with the establishment of this committee, with the disclosure of all these facts and circumstances, with a report in Parliament, at the end of the work of this committee, we can prevent future such abuses. We can impose on state-owned enterprises to comply with the highest requirements regarding transparency and competition to announce tenders for gas purchase on the relevant platforms, from which the Bulgarian consumer and the Bulgarian business will win, because surely the price will be better when there is more competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u99	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Here you are, Mrs. Mihailova, for an opinion from an importer on your draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It so happened that, within a few hours, proposals were tabled for the establishment of such a temporary committee, and the proposal of an ARRANGEMENT is actually an idea wider-wide than the proposal that has already been presented. We believe that it is imperative to set up a temporary committee to establish all facts and circumstances regarding the actions, but also the intentions of the Council of Ministers regarding the supply of natural gas to the Republic of Bulgaria. In the draft decision we have indicated three moments in particular. They are important to us in terms of what we give as a signal to the Bulgarian society, as we have seen in recent weeks and months extremely mixed speech by the representatives of the Council of Ministers. This creates chaos in society, creates uncertainty in business, including in end-users. For this reason, since we, being MPs, are getting information about what the government's post-factum intentions are from the media, we consider this to be wrong, because in fact the MPs are expressive of the choice of Bulgarian society. We believe that such an essential issue, which concerns long-term security for both business and consumers, should also be taken in line with the attitudes of the various parliamentary groups currently represented in the National Assembly. We believe that intentions are extremely important because we have seen how memorandums were made. We have learned about them through the media without them being discussed. This is happening from yesterday's headlines that we will import American gas, but no one speaks at what price. Including last week, this was actually one of the reasons why we took this step to ask for such a temporary committee, which, in whatever form it may be, it must be carried out, and on a parite principle by each parliamentary group, an equal number of MPs, which must follow all the decisions and contractual relations that the Bulgarian state is undertaking towards gas supplies to our country, the analysis of the impact of the actions undertaken by the government of Bulgaria, short-term and long-term plans in terms of gas supply. When we say impact assessment, this is something that we never once heard when it came to some of the decisions taken. In this Commission, we will have the opportunity to demand how each of the decisions is made and what will result from it, whether in long-term relations with the partners that have been selected. Something else very important, which is not commented almost and it seems so that the Bulgarian government only implements the decisions made by someone else in the European Union, in the European Commission or somewhere else, I do not want to guess, but so it seems. We believe that we should take a national responsible position of Bulgaria as a member of the European Union, but this position should be discussed through the MPs. Because when we make a decision on sanctions against the Russian Federation or about entering into new contracts with other countries, this reflects not only on prices, on contractual relations, but also, as we see already, in the international context, we are being affected by another way, we expect every moment of crisis with oil as well. Let's not have to make a temporary committee about this in two weeks. A week ago, I had the opportunity to have a national debate with representatives of all parliamentary groups. After the debate, we had the opportunity to talk about the fact that it would be most constructive for our society not to speculate in the media, not to create fears, but to be able to create a group that can, on the basis of documentmaking, figures, facts and analyses, provide answers to the Bulgarian society through us. Unfortunately, at the moment we have to give answers on the basis of media publications, because our ministers give interviews faster than they come and meet with us, which, unfortunately, we have also seen on the previous point, which should have discussed the extremely ill problem and, in fact, a hot topic in the Bulgarian society for reducing VAT rates. I call on you to support our draft decision for the reason only and only because it is wider and we could do more work for the benefit of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. I am opening a discussion on the two draft decisions to set up temporary committees. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I believe that the establishment of such a temporary committee would be of great importance to the publicity and transparency of the decisions taken by the government, as well as what is the government's vision from now on, related to the supply of natural gas to Bulgaria. I believe that this issue is important, first of all, because natural gas supplies are linked to our energy, national security accordingly. Secondly, the competitiveness of our economy depends largely on what energy resources prices are, in this case, what the cost of natural gas would be. The development of whole industries in the Bulgarian economy depends on this. I believe that in the framework of such a committee, a very important question will also be answered about why the "Bulgargaz" refused, even though it is a trader, to reserve capacity and assign this to a firm intermediary. With how much the firm intermediary expensive the supply of natural gas to the country, as this price practically pays it all consumers... I think it is important to know this. Thirdly, but not least, the Energy Act has made it very clear who defines the state policy in the energy sector and the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers. When this critical situation arose with the natural gas supply to Bulgaria by "Gazprom", the MPs and the whole society were unaware of what was happening, provided that it became clear after a month that the government was negotiating with "Gazprom" or rather "Bulgargaz" was negotiating with "Gsprom." In fact, in the framework of these negotiations, in practice, the government violated the Energy Act by not putting this subject to discussion before the National Assembly, as the Energy Act provides. 3, para. 1 of the Law. I believe that now is the time to become clear and all these questions that remained hidden then, now to come to the surface so that Bulgarian citizens can truly publicly and transparently understand what price they pay for natural gas and if they pay a higher price, who is responsible for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Let's see if there are any lines to Mrs. Petkova. I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, we are continuing the Change, I would like to say that we will support the draft decision to set up a Temporary Commission to check the circumstances that led to the suspension of natural gas from Gazprom. This committee is hoping to bring out all the real facts so that the opposition can no longer speak nonsense. We have nothing to hide, so we will support it and we will not even insist on a chair. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u105	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. A line from Iskra Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u106	Mr. Sabrutev, first of all, the opposition is multi-layered and I hope you don't mean everyone. We didn't talk nonsense, as you put it. On the contrary, we express doubts that are absolutely justified. I am glad that you still keep your word, because my conversation was with you about the need to calm the Bulgarian society. But to be concerned and to want this, there is a reason, a reason, and they come from the government. So the opposition is saying what's going on, not bullshit. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Delyan Dobrev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u108	Mr. Sabrutev, I'm waiting to hear the stupidity. It's silly that we bought from MET gas where the director of Bulgargas worked. It's stupid that this gas is 30 euros more expensive. It's a stupid thing to pay 110 million. lv. more. It's stupid that this gas is Russian. Which of the things I've said so far is nonsense? If one of these things is nonsense, I'd be happy to have you prove it in the Commission. If you don't believe me, I'll prove it to you in the same Commission. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u109	Thank you. Third line from Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Sabrutev, yes, I agree with what you said. You only missed to mention because the opposition's statement referred to more expensive gas, and today came good news from Prime Minister Kiril Petkov's visit to the US [[GRUNTING IN GERB-SDS]] who has managed to negotiate much better prices than the gas of Gazprom I think it is quite important. I hope that the Commission will not only see the current situation that has been created, but also the practices of the last 10 years, what has happened and how we have received and paid for gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. A hole? Here you go, Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Dobrev, I'll start with your line, talking about bullshit. Bullshit is what you've been telling us for 10 years that there's been a diversification of natural gas supplies. You yourself said in the public debate in question, which Mrs. Mihailova mentioned that nine years in a row over 90% of natural gas supplies come from one source, and we all remember Mr. Borisov's statements that diversification has been made and no one will be able to stop our tap! [[Voices from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] [[GERB-SDS lines]] [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] We hope that this Commission will clarify all these, I repeat, nonsense that has spoken in the public domain, and will finally give clarity to the Bulgarian people that we have been lied to that there is a diversification of natural gas supplies. The statistics for 2021 88% of the supplies belong to the Commissioner Gazprom Export. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u113	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Please, when we give ourselves qualifications as punks, let's cut that down. Mrs. Petkova, are you for procedure? Zhecho Stankov is about to make a statement, and I'm sure he'll make some serious arguments. All right, you're welcome for a procedure, Mrs. Petkova, but I'm warning you, if he takes the form of a replica to the back, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u114	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner in which you are directed. I'm going to ask you, when colleagues use words like bullshit, just take attitude, because what we're talking about is not bullshit. And when the facts speak, the government must be silent. So my procedure is with you. Please, Mr. Sabrutev, first learn that it is called diversification...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u115	He's not with me anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u116	...and if there wasn't diversification, there wasn't a single molecule of gas coming from right now!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u117	Take her word for it! Take her word!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u118	So all that we've done over the years...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u119	We get it, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u120	... at the moment gives you the opportunity to deliver natural gas to Bulgaria from different sources in times more than is the country's consumption.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u121	Mrs. Petkova, we get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u122	Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u123	Zhecho Stankov for speech. Then Toshko Yordanov and Ramadan Atalay record for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thought that the thesis that Bulgaria does not have access to sources and routes, or, so to speak, it is not diversified, today will not be present in the conversation. Why? Because 15 days ago not one, not two, not five, 15 days ago the gas of Bulgaria was officially stopped! However, the next day the gas was not stopped for business, it was not stopped until a week for domestic consumers. On the contrary, the pressure in the system is what it should be. So, so much for diversification, if we didn't have diversification, there was no way the pipes could be full right now. Another is the question, however, that the purpose of this committee is to drop all the curtains, all the fig leaves behind which are hidden colleagues from the ruling coalition, behind which the Council of Ministers is hiding. What do I mean? This committee will, first of all, want to illuminate those intermediaries who are currently selling gas to the state, whether they have accidentally reserved capacity as early as March and April, when there was a correspondence between the "Gazprom" and between the "Bulgargaz". Whether the letters received from both the Gsprom on April 1st and April 8th did not contain enough information to make it clear to the State what steps it should take, namely to protect people's interest. What do I mean? The interest of the people would be protected if the capacities of NG terminals were reserved, if the prime minister not now, but a month and a half ago or two ago is in the United States and negotiates not with politicians, but with gas producers supplies of cargo to the terminal that is in Greece. Then the interest would be protected. The interest would have been protected if the gas repository had been complete, so this committee would very carefully examine the entire scheme between the non-reservation of capacity, leaving Bulgaria without gas in the gas storage and at the same time without auction or competition, without auction or competition, notice, transparent but without auction or competition to send to certain companies letters with which to request delivery. Interesting was the fact that when someone asked the question, if I am not mistaken, the Minister of Energy, precisely from this high tribune, and asked if any supplier had complained? How to complain, Mr. Minister, as they, if they complain, you will immediately politically jump them. But our confirmed information is that the gas could be bought by dozens of euros below this price you have currently received, and another is the question that you do not even say during these 15 days at what price, at what price the Bulgarian business, Bulgarian households and everyone in the country buy their gas. Today we are the 11th of the month, one third of the month has passed, and no one knows who bakes his bread in the small bakery, how much will he pay at the end of the month for gas, taxis that drive natural gas, hot water that flows through the pipes, no one knows how to price?! I repeat, one third of the month has passed in complete violation of all the regulations for the introduction of price decisions to the KEWRC and this will also be required to enter as part of the decision and the working group to examine absolutely all the facts, not only of the executive power, of the regulators, of all the actors involved. Most importantly, here I will take account of Mr. Sabrutev's statement, we are not surprised that the ruling coalition does not want to take the lead. He does not want to take the lead because I have personal doubts that he will try to boycott the Commission's work, that this committee does not have a quorum to meet in order to achieve its objective. However, if the ruling coalition abdicates from the leadership positions, I appeal to colleagues to be able to make the decision so that we have a majority in this committee so that it is not boycotted and so that we can sit down to make the relevant decisions. Solutions to be in favor of Bulgarian citizens to protect the interest and to know what is the exact situation of the day?Why do we continue to receive gas through a mediator on the same pipe, from the same supplier with at least 30% higher price? And why haven't we had an exact price of gas in the country for over 10 days and everyone wonders what it is about? I get pictures all the time about all kinds of contraptions. Everyone's already wondering what price to price. And from now on, let's finish this and close the subject and see who's right and who's wrong and who's responsible from now on. Because above all, people here have chosen us to act the way they would if they were in our place. People are currently asking us to know why they are going to buy more expensive gas, why hasn't an auction or a competition been made and why hasn't the state reserved capacity? And this communication between "Gszprom" and "Bulgargaz" must be illuminated in order to know exactly when, specifically when, it was known that the supplies had a chance to be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u125	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. There are lines from Vladimir Tabutov, Miroslav Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Tabutov, for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u126	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Stankov! Firstly, regarding your concern that we are running away from responsibility and that you feel that this is why we do not want to take the lead and chair of the Temporary Commission, I can say that we are ready to take up such a post and are not running away from responsibility at all. We believe that it is in everyone's interest to clarify the circumstances and that is why we agree to have such a committee, and we are ready to chair it too. You, if you don't want to chair, have someone to do this thing. About the questions you asked at the end, why would you buy more expensive gas? We still don't know if gas will actually be cheaper. This has yet to be validated. About the prices that the KEWRC has to announce. KEWRC is an independent institution, i.e. from this point of view the National Assembly is irrelevant. You know that there is a technology for calculating prices, and by the way, the KEWRC were ready with a decision for the 1st to announce the price, but given the unilateral act to end the contractual relationship and gas supply by Whether there was an auction or whether the interest of the Bulgarian people was ultimately protected was also my question, if you remember, a week ago to the Prime Minister. 12 companies were invited, offers were received, the best offer was selected within the short term for which we should have reacted. And as you yourself said, 15 days ago the gas was shut down, but ultimately there is gas for everyone, and this is the most important priority I believe the government has dealt with. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u127	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. For a second line, Miroslav Ivanov, and the third line is from Ivaylo Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stankov! With regard to diversification, I cannot agree with you that the previous regular government has left the country in a situation that protects its national interests and has indeed ensured diversification, security and stability of gas supplies. And I cannot agree with you for the simple reason that many independent experts in recent weeks have clearly stated that Bulgaria was 90% dependent on a single supplier. At such high rates, there is no way to call and claim that we have diversification. On the contrary, we are placed depending on the one hand and under circumstances that no one can foresee, and the suspension of gas supplies by the Russian Federation unilaterally in violation of all the principles of law and compliance with the treaties, of course, that it will take some time for the Bulgarian country and government to take the attitude. You know perfectly well that the best prices are achieved with long-term contracts, and long-term contracts are not concluded today for tomorrow, they require time for negotiations. The Bulgarian government creates favourable conditions for conducting these negotiations, seeking to take them on behalf of the entire European Union. You don't share these things with society. With regard to the gas storage facility in Chiren. You know that in almost the whole of Europe, the levels of gas storage are identical as a percentage and that this is an absolutely normal process during the winter heating period, the rates to decrease because it keeps the price of gas lower and during the summer season they fill. So this is just another speculation on your part. I'm going to appeal to you one more time: stop speculation! Do not place all sins in the government basket, because you as an expert know perfectly well that this is not exactly the case. No one knew two and a half months ago that war would break out, no one could suspect that the Russian Federation would unilaterally stop its gas supplies in the country. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Mirchev, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Stankov, it's always fun when GERB start talking about diversification. The funny thing is because what you've diversifyed is a Turkish stream that we paid 3 billion for. lv. who won't come back. This is a pipe through which there is no branch in Bulgaria, and a pipe through which Gazprom has reserved the capacity and we cannot use it. This is your diversification. When you talk about prices, we told you before, the price from May to December will be lower than from January to April and this... [[Reply.]] That's right, it will be. And that's for sure. And when you speak and criticize the Prime Minister for having high-level meetings, think of who Boyko Borisov was negotiating with. He hasn't met Elena Kabaeva or Ala Pugachova there, he was dating Putin and Putin was negotiating these things. And then, when, especially at the time of a situation of war and force majeure, the most normal thing is in this urgent order to seek a meeting with a senior head of state in the States and not just there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u131	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Here you go, Mr. Stankov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tabutov, here you are contradicting each other with colleague Sabrutev, who came out and clearly stated: we do not even want a presidency or a governing position. I'm glad you changed your mind in a few minutes. As far as gas is concerned, once again. We, at least I don't know, you don't know if you know, we don't know, it's already 11 days, at what price does gas arrive in Bulgaria?! He's stopped by Russia. The pipes, however, are filled with gas, they all consume, but no one knows at what price. In other words, if tenders were made, were they not made!? You said 15 companies were invited. There are more than 30 licensed traders on the territory of the country alone. What would I do? I would turn to the largest American producer and owner of the largest Liquefied Gas terminal to say at what price he would deliver, because this is now extremely important. As far as KEWRC is concerned, this is not the time to wash your hands with KEWRC again, because I must mention to you that The KEWRC has no way of making a decision, with the state-owned company not saying what price it wants to be determined on the basis of the formula. It's been done 15 days of analysis of the formula. A simple formula?! You and I as intelligent people, when we sit down, in two minutes we will solve the problems and say if there is no mistake in the formula. As far as diversification is concerned. Once again, I expected that this seven syllable word will not be used today. I repeat, the gas was shut down 15 days ago, but therefore no one complains that he personally had the gas shut down. Mr. Ivanov, you had the honor of chairing the discussion with the Energy Minister and then we explained what diversification means. In 2016, for the first time in the new history, the democratic history of Bulgaria was launched another interconnector Bulgaria, Greece, which gives the chance of a billion and a half cc of gas transfer. A billion and a half at three billion U.S. consumption. We have found the existing gas connection The Tower of Siddirocastro with a capacity of 1 billion. Cube. M, and only in the direction from Bulgaria to Greece. We've upped this consumption to 3 billion. Cube. M, which gives us a six million chance at the moment. Cube. m per day, as much as consumption, to bring back on the basis of the new compressors from Greece to Bulgaria and thus to cover the entire consumption of the country. Moreover, during the time of Borisov's government the most transparent gas purchase procedure was carried out by another supplier. But notice what our procedure was? A clear tender, announced by "Bulgargaz" to absolutely all suppliers of the territory not of the country, not of Europe, on the territory of the world. As the rules were as follows: each supplier has to bid the price of Bulgargaz and the regulated price that the KEWRC determines, minus a discount rate. Do you understand? Do you understand what we had as a price? Let's see if anyone in the world can deliver us to Greek terminals at a better price. Well, the result was half a billion cubic metres of gas delivered to the Revitus. And as for stopping gas on the territory of the country, I still ask myself why is it stopped only on Bulgaria and Poland? In Poland, an effect is sought because their price under their contract with GSzprom is only at spot prices. In other words, they are currently receiving a much lower price through the German treaty and have protected the interest of the Polish people by receiving a lower price, although their Russian gas has been stopped, and we, copying from them, will currently receive a higher price because we did not negotiate initial quantities.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u133	One minute you're over time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u134	I apologize. I'm done with the last words. As for the gas storage facility, 18% in Bulgaria, 80% in Poland. Once again, I do not see the reason why three cargoes were agreed to arrive in Greece and could be landed and damaged in the warehouse, and if they were ordered earlier, we could have received TTF minus 20% just because of a species of crisis in China. Mr. Mirchev, last words to you. I respect you as a representative from Burgas because, you know, Burgas above all else. But in the end, we have five points of connectivity. Five points, and I, in order not to waste time, thank the President for the extra time, five points, which I will name you the link between the Balkan Stream and the existing gas network. Moreover, the pipeline has 8% return, each year with 8% return, and one concern, a note of concern. You said: between May and December the price will be very... Mr. Mirchev, you said that between May and December the price will be much lower...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u135	Mr. Stankov, you've got two minutes on top.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u136	...will be lower than January to May. Well, I was worried that you hadn't negotiated the May quantities yet, and we don't know at what price we're buying, and you're already going out that you bought them by December. I hope you know at least how much they're bought if you say it's lower. Last and final, thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u137	Well, she double-crossed you, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u138	Mr. Borisov, when negotiating with Mr. Putin, sent Mr. Dobrev as Minister and managed to negotiate with 22% lower gas price. When Minister Petkova was a minister, it was agreed with up to 40% lower price of gas, and now we are seeing 30% higher price on the same route than the same supplier. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, once again for the opportunity. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u139	Yes, thank you, Mr. Stankov. Thank you. Let us not, however, take from the work of the Commission, not to say everything in advance in this House, to remain for the committees. Are you here for procedure, Mr. Svilensky? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u140	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman, since you've probably been a little distracted. There is a specific point, honourable Members, it is a draft decision to set up a temporary committee. There is talk of Borisov, Putin, puppies, the United States. Let's focus on the draft decision and this debate to be held in this temporary committee, which will come up with some recommendations probably, findings and so on. And to you, Mr. Chairman, three minutes is the time for the doppelganger, and you left five minutes and 50 seconds. As important as what the colleague is saying, it is nice, first of all, to monitor the debate and everyone who has spoken so far goes beyond the subject of the point. Let's get to the point so we can go on the agenda. Otherwise we can talk about energy, here, Mr. Atalay has prepared himself here in the front row for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u141	Yes, thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Yordanov, come in for a statement. And really not... I already said that, let's leave something for the Commission, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is such a people that we will support this temporary committee, although this will be a pointless committee, as the questions that opposition colleagues are asking them were answered last week by the Minister of Energy. They repeated them now, received a response from colleagues from the ruling coalition. However, since there is clearly a political need to be used to do the opposition, we, as wide-ranging rulers, will give them this opportunity to exercise a month of activity. Second, for the chairman. I'm addressing my opposition colleagues, so when are you worse off when you don't have a chairman, or when you have a chairman? Because either way, you're dissatisfied. If I were you, I'd be more dissatisfied if I didn't have a chairman, but who am I to give you these advices, so get your head in the game and choose which one you want to suffer less. For diversification I will refrain from talking, because the people who made Turkish flow speedily, who you call it, while stalling the gas connection with Greece, what, seven, eight, nine years, should at least keep quiet on this subject. So in conclusion, yes, we will support the establishment of this committee so that you can have something to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u143	Okay, thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Iskra Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u144	Dear Mr. Yordanov, no question has been answered and will not be answered until we see something in black and white. To date, we again do not know what happens to prices. Today from this tribune there were again requests that they would be lower, but the minister what he said a week ago was something completely different. Another minister said something completely different. That is why this committee is extremely necessary for us to be convinced in documentary form, because what is happening and we all see it is one talking, and it is talking, which is absolutely diverse. Regarding what you say about the Presidency, we will propose the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u145	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Tabutov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Todorov, I agree with you everything has already been explained and you do not need to see black and white something to understand. I would like to remind everyone what the purpose of this Temporary Commission is, namely, an examination of the circumstances that led to the cessation of natural gas and not what the prices will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u147	Okay, okay. There are two committees only reminding. Is there a third line to Tosko Yordanov? There's no third line. A hole? You don't want to. Ramadan Atalay for a statement. Then there was Martin Dimitrov and then Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna try to keep what Mr. Svilensky said to fill in at least 30 minutes of time, because otherwise 45 minutes won't...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u149	Twenty-four is the maximum.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u150	Thank you. My fellow Members, this is a very serious matter. The seriousness of the supply of energy raw materials only the government could not understand. A week ago, on Friday, here I tried to explain to the Prime Minister that what is happening in the world, what is happening in the European Union, with these sanctions being taken for energy raw materials in Europe, Bulgaria must protect its national interest. The defence is that when a decision was made to stop or impose an embargo on oil, Bulgaria had to ask for a derogation for simple reasons. Now the oil supplies, the ships reach in four days, and the next ones that will come, one ship will reach in 40 days after it is loaded, and a number of other arguments that I can put them up. And I'm not the only one who knows them, they know those who deal with energy. Moreover, Mr. Sabrutev, as far as I know, has been an adviser in the Ministry of Energy, worked together with GERB and is currently against GERB. As far as I know, your wife is also advising BEH, and she's an economic director in this ministry and she doesn't have to be so violently... [[Laughter, noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u151	What does this have to do with the agenda now, Mr. Atalay?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u152	...attack the previous rulers when you took part in the advice of decision-making. That's what I meant, Mr. Chairman. Otherwise, I have nothing against Mr. Sabrutev or any other colleagues who have wept on our shoulders to become chairman of transport committees. That's how it was, and that's how it's gonna go. [[Laughter, noise, lines and applause by GERB-SDS.]] But now I'm asking you here, fellow governors, do you know why we stopped the gas supply? [[(Reply from?) We continue the Change?:? No.?)]] Do you agree with the gas we are currently receiving to reach our producers at 30% higher price? I ask the government again: How do you take it and think that the liquefied gas, which by technology a priori has 25% loss in regasification, will be lower than the pipe gas price? And I can tell you that I hope it is not a trade secret, and there are now enough large trading companies that have concluded a 40-dollar gas supply, and that means that today the Prime Minister has made a gas to deliver us at least $39 delivered to Bulgaria. Do you believe this thing? Colleagues, you are asked, I am very seriously telling you, you are asked to make it possible for Bulgaria to receive its energy raw materials at such a price as to be competitive on the European market. Today our producers have been producing their production for 13 days and they do not know what to calculate on their final production. To make it simple to understand me, the pie produced in a gas furnace is not known how much is the component of the gas of the pie. Mr. Tabutov, don't come out that you can give me a line at least. One more thing, guys. The gas, which is currently, can Bulgaria get gas from another source other than Russia? Yes, of course. What is needed? It takes time, it is necessary to know that gas, which has so far been supplied by other sources, will not be at this price at which it is currently, and it will not be cheaper than that. Nobody's saying what's going on with the gas stations, and here you have to be very careful about spelling the letters. Mr. Chairman, the last time I told the Prime Minister, I'll tell you. The gas injection at the gas storage facility in Chiren always starts from April 1st or April 15th, and today it is May 15th and there is no damage. There are as many quantities per day as it can take in six months at the gas station in Chiren. This means that we neither have contracted quantities of gas, nor do we know at what price it will come, nor do we have the technological time to inject the gas, which will be necessary for the use in Bulgaria during the autumn-winter and spring season. Gentlemen of government, are you aware of this, or are you standing at the ambrazure to protect those who do not deal with the energy of Bulgaria, those who deal with Mr. Asen Vassilev, and all others who are not aware of it, and do not leave the Ministry of Energy and Bulgargaz.Protecting the state interests to provide the gas that is needed for Bulgaria? This is what it is about, colleagues, that you also do not know why from April 1st to April 18th no one reacts to the letter sent to Bulgargaz. It is known very clearly that if the bank of Gszprom had translated the dollar values without any differences, again in the account of Bulgargaz with rubles and to transfer those funds with which the gas should be paid, which Bulgaria should receive. Colleagues, I'm not making an example of you. I'm not going out there to say how guilty you are right now. Colleagues who have thought to ask for a commission after all, if you are right, if everyone is respected, and in general the specialized Energy Act, do not worry about anything. Let's have a commission, let's hear it, let's see how and how the quantities of gas are delivered, are they contracted, why the gas that comes from Russia passes through Bulgaria and then again Russian gas returns to Bulgaria. Can you imagine if it's 30% cheaper, that's what it's all about, guys? Mr. Chairman, your attempt not to implement the Energy Act, which we have submitted with the clear aim of providing 3 billion to help the business, to help end-users of electricity, you continue to draw loans once 500 million, now 300 million. We've provided for you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u153	Is that on the Project Decision, Mr. Atalay?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u154	...3 billion, and you don't import it. In my opinion it is in the interests of Bulgaria, it is probably not for the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u155	It's not definite.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u156	I'm sorry, but I told you to cut your tail off from certain people, not to leave these funds to them, and it's better for you and easier to protect those who still collect these funds today, and you don't find the strength to submit the bill and accept it so that we can be useful. If you understand me, it'll be good if you don't understand me, next time I'll go out with the Prime Minister's manners and maybe then you'll understand me. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u157	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there any lines to that statement? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u158	Mr. Atalay, there are only two things I disagree with. One is that they don't hurt in Chiren. In fact, they started, they're already inflating, and they're pumping out this 100-euro gas, and they're putting a bomb in front of the next government, because I don't think they're going to last until winter, but the next government, when winter comes, will have to draw from Chiren's 100-euro gas. I don't agree with you. They're injecting on expensive gas. And the second thing I disagree with is that business matters what the price of gas is. It doesn't really matter to some businesses. If you make patties that cost one lev, it matters very much how much gas is and how much electricity is, but if you make ketones of 100 levs, it doesn't matter. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u159	Is there a second line? Here you go, Mr. Angov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're very skilled at handling this warehouse in Chiren, colleagues. At least you should have expanded it in time, because I returned to the things that Asen Vassilev, as a minister of service, had launched and which they were given a move, these are the reverses that you are so proud of, and that was the expansion of Chiren, but alas, the reversals you have done without any particular benefit from them so far. As for Chiren, and Mr. Dobrev, and Mr. Atalay very well outlined the reasons why he was in production mode during the heating season and what are the reasons why he is currently in injection mode and that is simple. If at the time of the heating season we had started to draw from Chiren, this instant, I apologize, we had stopped running out of Chiren and we had started to sting, this would immediately increase the prices, because Chiren had an inflated cheap gas, which was flowing into the mix. Now Chiren is in mode to inject and it is absolutely normal for residues to be injected into the gas tank. These quantities either have to be sold at spot prices, or they have to be strained. Given that we are in uncertainty of supply, but still there are supplies, the most sensible thing is that gas, which is already purchased, is to be damaged. So stop speculating with Chiren. The gas storage facility was used precisely for its purpose to balance the price during the heating season and as far as possible with its unexpanded capacity, Chiren actually did its job during this heating season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u161	Thank you, Mr. Angov. Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u162	Mr. Chairman, first let me thank Mr. Ananiev for his retreat. My goal and idea is to return the debate on what we are looking at, namely why gas supply is stopped. The reason is one, and this is the lack of diversification. And because we speculate a lot about this word for diversification, I want to make a little bit of sense of what diversification means. Diversification means reducing the risk, not technically having only the opportunity to exploit yes, technically we have had the opportunity to diversify, and no, we have not reduced the risk for the very reason that we have only one gas supplier. If we wanted to have real diversification and not stop gas, then we should have at least five or six gas suppliers to be negotiated with long-term contracts, to reduce the risk to the state and to stop one dictator gas and gas supply to Bulgaria, so that the rest we have agreed on can compensate for the losses that we will suffer from stopping the gas from this one supplier. The main reason, again, is the lack of diversification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u163	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Mr. Atalay, you have the opportunity to make a duplicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u164	Yes, thank you. Mr. Dobrev, you can look and see when the filling of Chiren began and from there you will find out how many days, nearly a month we are late. But of all the lines that have been made, perhaps, perhaps my colleague Manev for diversification. In 2009, when we had a gas crisis, I was chairman of the Energy Commission. Then, if you were in parliament or were involved in energy, you would understand what it is that there is no diversification of sources and diversification of supply routes. We cannot say today that we have no diversification of roads, of pipes, of positions where gas can be delivered. There was no opportunity to deliver gas back from Turkey, either from Romania or from Greece, and we can tell you a number of true stories about the Greek link. And right now how geopolitics... where you're going to diversify, because your diversification I understand it so - goes the Prime Minister, says in Europe together to negotiate with the entire European Union, the next morning grabs its bags and goes to America and negotiates gas. The only source with which you diversify is not the other older brother, from whom Bulgaria has withdrawn so far? Why didn't you go to Algeria? Why didn't you go to Qatar? We were going to do this together with the European Union, weren't we? Diversification understands it: to announce from the stock exchange to maintain capacity and all producers to come to claim from the producers, from sources through these pipes or with ships who can deliver what. What are we doing? What are we doing? And then the Prime Minister of Bulgaria under the laws of Bulgaria has no right to negotiate any energy raw materials. None! Colleagues, after coming here to this Parliament, I may have been the only one who came out and said: our expectations for you are very high, you are young, you are energetic, you should have entered an hour as quickly as possible, and not stand in the ambrazure to protect those who do not understand management. As it turns out, so do you. Either take over this country or leave. If you go, you'll do much better for the state. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u165	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. For a personal explanation please, Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. My personal explanation to Mr. Ramadan Atalay is regarding the claim that I have been an advisor to the Ministry of Energy and have worked with GERB. Mr. Atalay, you know very well that this is a lie and it does not suit you in white hair to tell lies from the highest tribune of this country. My experience in energy is indisputable and in no way am I hiding it. LinkedIn profile is open and anyone can read where I worked and what I worked. Mr. Atalay, you are a well-known joker, quite often playing such light jokes, and I don't know how they didn't think you were the host of the show. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u167	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. We'll continue with the next speech. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Two committees have been proposed, the establishment of two temporary committees, and the subject of one includes examining why the gas from Gazprom was stopped and to see what was negotiated, the other subject is to see at all the government's actions to negotiate new quantities of natural gas. We will support the establishment of such a committee by "Democratic Bulgaria" and it can be useful. Why do we think that makes sense? Here I heard some speeches that said: everything must be clear and public. I'm just asking you, because I'm not going to be on this committee, when you say everything must be clear and public, don't forget that road map with Gszprom. You say: everything must be clear and public, you take out the map, because you said everything, I heard you and I agree. Next, when you go to this committee, ask us to ask us............................................................................................................................................................. I asked for it in the order of parliamentary control, thought it should not be given to me, but it is a document that is important. And then it is important that the seven parliamentary groups say: if there is, if there is really an open currency risk, do you want, do you support making such a payment, an annex to the Gazprom contract or not? This committee will be very useful for each to be determined by the seven parliamentary groups to see the report, to see the risks and to say: in these risks what you are proposing. Next, I did not hear from any of you, and this committee may make a recommendation for arbitration, because we have a perfect contract with Moscow, it is unilaterally violated and, as Bulgaria was then sued for This committee may, at the end, recommend this in its recommendations. So it can also play a positive and important role, this issue needs to be settled. Do you also remember changing the delivery points from the Trans-Balkan stream to the so-called Turkish or Balkan stream because there was an opportunity to claim irresistibility? You decided not to claim damages then, changed the access points. This is also a matter that must now be assessed, was this decision right on your part, was the state wronged, was it smart, or could it have been done otherwise? Because we have a gas contract, we've had clear penalties, you've decided and you've changed the access points to draw the line on what the effect here is. Another thing, at the end of the recommendations, because this is not what I hear, unfortunately, and in the debate is very important, there is an idea for the European Commission to buy gas as a single consumer. Colleagues, this is an incredible opportunity, and it's good to see who's behind the idea. They will support her, how many groups will support her, or there will be those who will not support such an idea. Because if we want there to be no intermediaries and to achieve the best price, no one can achieve as favourable a price as the big buyer. The European Commission can be a very big buyer, makes sense in this idea. Finally, discuss and propose, if there are better options for price decisions, yes, such is the subject of one of the committees, discuss and propose, call the executive, they will say what ideas there are to provide gas, you will offer better options, if any. If there really is an intermediary somewhere, it can be avoided and this can reduce the price, offer it in black and white, but it is important for us to finally see on the idea of the European Commission buying as a single consumer and there is such a proposal in the final recommendations of this temporary committee, how you will vote. We will support such a committee and on this agenda it can be quite useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u169	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u170	Mr. Dimitrov, I do not think that this committee in her report should end with the fact that Bulgaria should be conducting an arbitration case, and I advise you not to insist on this for the simple reason that in a potentially such case across the country, it will claim that the case is political and is not the subject of a trade dispute, but is the subject of some political dispute in the Bulgarian Parliament, so be reasonable in my opinion and do not suggest it, but what I will suggest, and I hope that you will support it, because you are a person who is a competitor for competition, right? That is, I will propose from now on to ban the director from inviting any companies he considers to be them and 12 companies, just because he has decided so, and then with a resolution on the offers to write: the offer is accepted and the offer is not accepted. Do you remember that there was one such director 2005 at the NPP of Kozloduy, who sold electricity in resolutions? Now, these guys are buying electricity with the same resolutions, not electricity, excuse me, gas, with the same resolutions. That is, I would suggest that this can no longer happen as a principle and that these quantities must be bought and sold through exchanges. Two exchanges have to choose which one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u171	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Is there a second line? I won't. Mr. Dimitrov, come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u172	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dobrev, the matter has a solution. Maybe the committee, when he gets to know him, Mr. Dobrev... Mr. Atalay, don't distract Mr. Dobrev. ... The Commission, with the facts, must consider that there is a breach of the contract signed with That's enough. There is no need to explicitly write down the request for an arbitration suit, but it can find out the committee, having become aware of the facts that "Bulgargaz" paid what he had to pay, that the money was returned and that there was a breach of the contract. That's enough. There's no need for anything more to be settled and done. And as for competition, yes, of course, colleagues, there must be competition. Once again, I remind you that the best decision we have had right-wing said as yet 2017 and we insisted the European Commission as a single consumer to buy quantities, only this will not happen if Bulgaria does not state it and does not want it constantly. I would like to and I believe that we can unite around a thesis and such a theme, and if the Commission sees a persistent response from many places, it will begin to do so. She is currently exploring, as I understand it, the subject and taking the first steps in this very correct direction. If we want good prices this is the way without a doubt and otherwise on the subject: to check all possibilities for gas imports, to create competitive conditions and to choose the best opportunities, I fully agree. In this sense, such a commission can be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u173	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Aleksandar Nenkov for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Should there be such a commission? I think the same answer is yes. The big question is why? Because, colleagues, in the last few months, we have listened to all the allegations that have subsequently proved false, most precisely speaking, colleagues, we do not believe this government that it has protected the Bulgarian national interest to the full. Why? When I watch them throw themselves away with ease: "Yes, here we will now stand up to the Russian side, we will pay 20. 30% more gas, I see how the attitude towards the carriers the other day, for example, the door showed up, has no meaning to their demands, and here we do not argue about what they want and what they do not... At all the ease with which you treat Bulgarian society, business, there is a doubt in us that you are not actually defending the Bulgarian national interest, but someone else private. Why? When the war in Ukraine began, I now bothered to make a reference to the speeches of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev, your colleagues, because this scenario existed at the beginning of the war, that Bulgaria is ready to meet possible suspension of supplies from the Russian side and that this will not affect the Bulgarian economy. Yeah, well, something doesn't add up, you need to clear your doubts. Yes, on one day, Gazprom stopped gas supplies on April 27th, but this was a long process that had been carried out before. Who has worked with the Gazprom and knows what capacity these companies have, this conglomerate with exceptional professionals, prepared people, do you not believe that you can so easily fool the public that this company simply so, without any preparation, has carried out this act? It is no accident that we want to set up this committee to actually see what is the correspondence between the Bulgarian merchant Bulgargaz and Gazprom Export is, because what is it now? If you really, and the Prime Minister is right that Bulgaria has been ready and will be ready for this moment, then now it turns out that not the Bulgarian country is ready, not the Bulgarian trader is ready, not Bulgargaz. The private companies, including this MET company, were ready for this moment. Here's the big question: why? Why did it come to this? Why has Bulgargaz gave up this opportunity because he is a public supplier and he works through a certain mark-up, which cannot be more than the regulatory one, why he has refused to be this trader who will import gas for the additional quantities we need, and private companies have been ready in these weeks, which were expected to happen, which have reserved capacity for the liquefied gas of the Revitus, and in fact our country is not ready at all? One more thing, if our country were ready, Chiren wouldn't be 18%. Because if you make a reference today when the gas stopped for Poland, at the same time when the Bulgarian side was stopped, then its quantities in their gas tanks were filled 75%. Today's up-to-date information, there are 81 of them, which means that the Polish side has envisaged this risk and prepared itself for that risk. I'm sorry, but Mr. Kiril Petkov's visit to the United States of America is also very light. If he had really negotiated any new amounts of gas at a lower price, I am sure that the parameters would already be clear, but in that he would, I would, I would, somehow we are starting to lose faith at all. Now they wonder how from May to December, the price would be cheaper than it is now... I'm sorry, but it's getting more and more ridiculous. It has just come up, and Mr. Stankov, I think, pointed out that it was no accident that Bulgarghaz did not give his application for May month to the regulator, but because of a letter about the fact that there was a verification by the Ministry of Energy for pricing and because of this for May there is no price yet. Colleagues, this is a violation. The Energy Act says when and under what conditions should the regulator declare this price. Obviously you just don't like this price because you know that it needs to be higher and now in some administrative order you are trying to postpone this in time, but just keep in mind that the Bulgarian economy will suffer. Yes, in time what Mr. Dimitrov said may prove possible......the European Commission and in general the European Union can buy on general orders and supplies, but there is a very important moment here and it is the factor of time. Time! And to judge "Gszprom" and win the arbitration, it will take time that will not help us at the moment to deal with the severe economic and financial situation in which the state has fallen. These months, I think, were lost by the government. With ease, the ball is transferred to the citizens and to the business to increase the price by 20%. We suddenly became big hawks, but next week we said that we vetoed the request from the European Union and the European Commission to ban imports of Russian oil, but both sides somehow do not fit. Come on, then, if we're hawks, let's be hawks all the way down here and bankrupt what we can and that's to prove that we're stronger than everyone else. This is what I think, colleagues, requires that this committee not hear what the Prime Minister or anyone else has said, because we do not believe it, but we want to see in practice what the Bulgarian side has done, because these are treaties and they do not become fairy tales, but they do with specific letters, with documentation between the two countries. This should establish whether this committee is protected the Bulgarian interest, or whether it is just a wasted time and now we are running after the events. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u175	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Angov, for the first line to Mr. Nenkov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u176	Dear Mr. Nenkov, I think I've made it quite clear about the Warehouse. If we'd started to sting in Chiren, it would have led to a price hike earlier in the heating season. That's the reason why you didn't make that move. The risk that was taken to obtain now an increase in prices would have been fully realised if we had started to hurt in Chiren. That is, three months earlier, we would have certainly had an increase in prices, and now we may not have. As for the tossing of comments about the roads and the protests of the carriers... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u177	This has nothing to do with the subject. It wasn't replicated.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u178	I'm sorry, but it was mentioned in the statement anyway. In fact, the inclusion of the third-class road network in the toll system will bring traffic out of small towns and trucks will not bypass the big roads and drive through small towns and bully people. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "It is not on the topic. "]] It is absolutely on the subject. The reservation of the capacity that you commented on requires a financial resource that is given in booking. Without stopping the gas, there was absolutely no reason to make this cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u179	For the second line of Mr. Nenkov's speech. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Ananiev, I'll give the floor to you for a third line so we can alternate the groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u180	Mr. Nenkov, I do not agree with you that they were preparing at all for such an option. They said they were ready, but notice what they were saying in early April: If the gas shuts us down, we will cut the power.! In fact, now that I'm listening to Mr. Angov, I understand why they say that. Bulgaria, for information of Mr. Angov and other colleagues... By the way, Mr. Sabrutev really worked in the state energy sector, confirming this part of his interview. And Mrs. Petkova can also confirm because she was a minister when Mr. Sabrutev was an advisor to the National Electricity Company. But for colleagues who do not know, Bulgaria produces very little of its electricity from gas and that is not the problem. But if you stop the gas, knowing that the power exports will not stop, because you cannot stop it, it is not allowed under European rules, but the steam will surely stop because the gas is made both electricity and steam. In terms of... I had a second part of my line, but I'll say it another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u181	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. For the third line, Mr. Ananiev. Wait, Mr. Nenkov, you have a third line. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u182	It's okay. Mr. Dobrev's reply to what Mr. Sabrutev is talking about, so please be careful! [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Nenkov, you were talking about a gas price. Here your boss, Mrs. Atanasova, was throwing out that you do not take commissions in your party, but one of your other bosses, because she is the boss of all of you here, who you are, Mrs. Fandakova, very soon bought gas at a double price. Right now, she's complaining that there's no money for the carriers and the public transport, and she paid twice as much to a company. So I want you to answer here about the price that... Do you see the political hypocrisy here? In fact, when you go out on this stand, you pretend to be opposition, but in Sofia, you rule. Turns out when you're in charge, the gas is two...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u183	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u184	It's on the subject. Commissions are paid large and at the same time it is said to the state: I ask you to answer me about this case and this political hypocrisy. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u185	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I don't think it had anything to do with the subject. For a procedure in a manner of conduct? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, Mr. Ananiev can tell all sorts of jokes here from this tribune. And my colleague, who was staring at my white hair, sent me to BNR. I will give him the place because it is understood and it is seen where his expertise in the Ministry of Energy comes from, and it is from GERB, and you are not far from GERB. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u187	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. I apologize, Mr. Nenkov, here's your turn for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Ananiev, but they, people, feel it. Do you know what they feel? They feel that the price, when GERB managed, was 75 euros, and now they pay 100 euros and more euros for gas. When GERB managed, the price of electricity was about 80 BGN and today it is BGN 525, if memory serves me right. That's what people feel! You can say whatever you want, but it's the truth. Mr. Angov, where are you? Mr. Angov, it's about attitude, and it's not about carriers, it's not about any sector. It's respect for those people who actually make the money that you're wasting here lightly. That's the problem. That's the problem! This is not a specific matter for carriers. Now, I'm going to finish with this: colleagues, what is the truth? What happened to the gas, and that you're actually claiming to be prepared, but you're not. If you were prepared, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Energy, when did the Minister of Finance go to Brussels?! When the gas stopped. Why, if not before, if a month had had all the opportunity to make such shuttles, to look for opportunities for common gas supplies and so on?! That didn't happen. Why? Firstly, because I think you are incompetent, and secondly, because you were deliberately waiting for this moment to enter the new traders so that the new traders could go bankrupt because this is the long-term goal. There is no power in this world that can convince me that it isn't. That's the point. The big point is that Bulgargaz is gone. For him to remain heat efficiency, for example, because they are naturally the most difficult and there is also a social function. And all the other sweetest, to go to the merchants. What don't you understand?! You think people are retarded?! No, they're not retarded, they understand this thing. They understand in their pocket that someone benefits from it. Same as with Gemcorp. Same thing. Someone somewhere decided to sign a memorandum with this company went to trade for gas, and with the other was a memorandum, then it was a letter, then it was an email, then it turned out that they just agreed verbally. That's it! That's your transparency! This is what you do for the Bulgarian business and for the state! And you will see that people are not so blind and will realize it more and more. That's it! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u189	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Recorded for speech Stanislav Anastasov. Mrs. Atanasova, are you speaking or something?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u190	It's an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u191	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u192	Thank you, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, since there is obviously a consensus in this House that it would support such a temporary committee, I appeal to focus on the text of the draft decisions and therefore I will make an editorial proposal for a correction so that we can combine the two draft decisions, namely: in the draft decision, which is more remote and more wide-ranging, I propose that, in the title and in the first place after the word Point two of the draft decision to be point two of the draft parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ, namely: The Committee for Work consists of 14 Members of Parliament elected on a parite principle by two from each parliamentary group. The third point of the GERB project is identical to the ARCHER project. The fourth point shall be point 1.1 of the draft Parliamentary Group of ADVANTAGE and shall be as follows: The Commission shall establish all decisions and contractual relations which the Bulgarian State shall undertake towards gas supplies to the country, as well as all facts and circumstances relating to the suspension of gas supplies by... Gazprom Export........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The next item is to be a combination of the two projects for decision-making, analysis and assessment of the impact of the actions undertaken by the government of Bulgaria - short-term and long-term plans in terms of gas supply, as well as examination and analysis of documents related to the establishment of the content, parties and subject matter of the documents adopted and signed by the government of Bulgaria - Bulgargaz ЕAD, BEH EAD, the Ministry of Energy and the Council of Ministers on the suspension of gas supplies and the choice of alternative suppliers. The next item shall be that the Temporary Commission shall draw up a report on the results of its work and the facts and circumstances established. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of two months. The President and the members shall then comply with both decisions. Point 1.3 of the ARCEGATION Project, I ask you to put an additional vote, that is, to borrow a national responsible position of Bulgaria as a member of the European Union in discussing and deciding on sanctions to the Russian Federation, specifically in the part concerning gas supplies and payments, as I believe that this goes beyond the scope of the Temporary Commission and may be the subject of a separate decision of the National Assembly. Thank you. I believe you've been able to record all the editorial repairs. In practice, this is a collaboration between the two drafts of a decision that do not come into contradiction, and there was a request that they would be supported by the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Anastasov, would you like to make a statement, or should we move on to...? Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u194	Colleagues, I'm only going to steal you for a few minutes because we've heard a lot about the technical part of the debate, but there are several political ones that need to be heard and known about this situation. I'm going to start, first of all, with what diversification is, because a lot of people have been practicing in this room to talk about diversification. We know exactly what this is about. Colleagues, are we currently in this situation to make the State more precise? The simple answer is no. Because right now the government is looking for gas, whatever it is, obviously looking for even Russian, delivered through intermediaries, only if there's some gas. Why are we in this situation, colleagues? That is yet to be understood, of course. That's why this committee is being set up. It is important to break another speculation why this is happening only to Bulgaria and Poland. Because, as Mr. Stankov suggested, but I will continue the subject, obviously the reasons are quite different. Because this is not the result of the policies of the European Union and NATO, but is the result of the actions of Cyril, Asen and their government, and their sole actions, I dare say. Because if what is happening was a result, a very dangerous thesis that is being spread by the government and here in this House by the government, especially by the PP, if this situation is currently a result of the policies of the European Union and NATO, colleagues, then all the countries of the European Union should have the same problem. And we all see that this is obviously not the situation. If we are somehow punished for some imaginary help to Ukraine, I say imaginary because there is none, and it is obvious why this does not happen to all those who provide military assistance, and indeed!? I'm talking from the other side. I say this, colleagues, because Cyril and Asen are trying to give us suggestions and unfortunately, these suggestions find ground in the Bulgarian society that Bulgaria is now in some way grounded because it follows the policies of the European Union and NATO. I'll repeat that a few times. It's a deeply wrong thesis. Colleagues from the PP, with similar claims, trying to justify and hide the government's actions, you are currently destroying the trust of the Bulgarian society in the European Union and NATO and are actually creating anti-European and anti-NATO moods. I do not know whether you are aware of this thing, or are you simply hiding for your own actions behind this thesis, which is extremely dangerous and will have serious consequences for the future of Bulgaria for things that you have not achieved. Because, colleagues, you, together with the AGE, impose those in Bulgaria in a different way, but together you impose them. [[Reply.]] Together with our colleagues from AGE, yes, we pay for our pro-European and pro-Pro-Attov orientation. This is quite logical, my colleagues, because in our humble opinion, you do not understand the policies of either the European Union or NATO, nor do you know how to implement them. I'm talking about the PP special.....We're continuing the Change. Phenomenally, colleagues, entirely in the spirit of the change that happens in the dark to be safer, and apparently some of you find that much more fun. Mr. Mirchev, I'll address you if you're in the room. If you are not, go to Yes, Bulgaria and Mr. Dimitrov. Repeating Prime Minister Petkov's position and Asen's position is completely wrong as a set-up. The comparison of the Russian Federation and the United States of America and private actors there are fundamentally wrong. If we can argue here in this room, and we all know that "Gazprom" is in some way a pseudo-state firm, then this is by no means valid for overseas companies dealing with energy and where energy is a wholly private sector. From this point of view, I am very interested in Kiril Petkov in what capacity, with what private actors, what is he negotiating right now? Because it's a total nonsense, colleagues. Private actors agree with private actors, government, government. You know that very well. Once again, I would like to repeat that they are not a reenactment, our colleagues from "We are continuing the Change" and it is you who are harming the European and NATO understanding of Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens with these. The bad news is that in the Bulgarian society these obviously catch dikish, it is obvious that your extreme and extremely confused policies act extremely negatively, Mr. Ananiev, while you grin, destroying what others have achieved, bringing Bulgaria into the European Union and NATO, and some keeping them as members. At the moment, the only thing that remains as a scarecrow for you is how the consequences generated by you actually help other formations such as rebirth. An absolutely desperate move to hold this government in power, which, as it turned out, is not as surprised in this case by some political response of the Russian Federation, but rather is unprepared for the consequences of its own government's actions. It's extremely sad. Otherwise, for BSP colleagues, I understand why they are not actively involved in this debate. Yes, the MP's thesis agrees with them that the policies of the European Union and NATO are responsible for what is happening at the moment. Totally irresponsible. I'm telling you again. In the end, if they have to face reality and see that the actions of the prime minister and the finance minister have led to this state at the moment, they must explain why they are involved in this government, which will be harder for them than hiding behind the thick back of the European Union and NATO. Thank you and may the mind prevail in one of you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u195	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Here you go, Mr. Drenchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u196	Mr. Anastasov, I agree with you that the problems before Bulgaria mainly consist in the actions of the government and I strongly disagree with the relationship that you have made between PP and Resurrection. I don't think it was right for you to say exactly what AGE is thinking about the European Union and NATO. REBORN recalls Bulgaria's participation in the Warsaw Treaty was not as much given as Bulgaria's participation in the Economic Assistance Council. Those were some alliances that literally fell apart in weeks. If something like this happened, and history is what is repeated periodically, when this thing happened with the Warsaw Treaty, Bulgaria had a strong army that served to provide cover for the South European theatre of military action. Now, if such a thing happens, we will remain absolutely ridiculous, pathetic and incapable of defending ourselves not only from a well-organized enemy, but even from bandit formations we will find it difficult to defend ourselves with the available army and with the available forces and resources we have. What we have as a problem, and what we have defined as a problem, is precisely pilgrimage all the time, declared here by this tribune and everywhere, of loyalty and loyalty to these institutions. These are institutions where we have the respective allied obligations and therefore we have the need to pluck our security from them not only military but also economic and any other. RECOGNITION claims a pragmatic attitude towards these institutions. Instead of always rushing by plowing to our mother to declare some interests, as we first closed our airspace to Russian planes, we first closed our marine aquatoria to Russian ships, we should always pull the rug to ourselves. Always put the Bulgarian national interest first. Yes, of course, as long as it is part of any union interest, but we must not forget that these alliances have the property to be created, to develop, to cease to exist accordingly. And Bulgaria, I hope, is something longer. To what extent we participate in them depends only on what our particular, Bulgarian, national interest is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u197	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Second line: Alexander Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I may, first of all, an extension procedure that will grow into a replica.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u199	The procedure should be after the dot, so go with the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u200	Dear Mr. Anastasov, you neglected to mention that it was also not NATO and it was also not the European Union that sold hundreds of thousands of megawatts from Chiren on the eve of the war. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u201	Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, for a third line. Colleagues, the meeting is up to 14.20 hours, as one break was at the request of a parliamentary group of 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Anastasov, we have heard several times these, these, these yes, this is your thesis. By the way, once again the DPS is trying to play elastic between its formation and nationalist formations. In the past, it was Attack, the Patriots, now rebirth, of course. This ping pong that you have done very well, the last 30 plus years, you will obviously try to impose in the National Assembly. The question here is: can your party behave nationally? Stanislaw Anastasov [[DPS, from place.]] To you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u203	Not to us, to Bulgaria. We're in charge. You're an opposition. I hope we never have to rule with the DPS, as soon as you do, as well as you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u204	It's not about the subject. I and Mr. Anastasov's initial statement didn't hear it...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u205	Yeah, it was. It wasn't about Mr. Anastasov either.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u206	Let's all get back to the subject together.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u207	It will be difficult when we replicate someone who has spoken, to get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u208	Finish it, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u209	So it is important to have national-responsible behavior. Personally, I am delighted that you cannot work with the Change Continue, because several times you have specifically stated the PP, PP,... We continue the Change.................................. that this can only speak well about this formation that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.. can't work with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u210	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you are, Mr. Anastasov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, who can work with who? We're just about to find out. Mr. Ananiev can work with a lot of people, and in the future we know it, and from the past we know it. [[Applause and laughter by DPS.]] It's for the nationalists. My dear Mr. Ananiev, to explain to you in psychology there is one principle of extrapolation, and very harmful. I'm telling you this to protect yourself from other mistakes. A person suggests that others think like him. Well, no, it's not like that. DPS can't think like you can, absurd! Total absurdity. Now get to the point. What you're doing with the ARGUING, by the way, you spit in each other's mouths, you have the exact same tone. You claim that something is happening to us right now because of our European policies. There's nothing like that! The policies of Cyril, Asen and Nastimir are far from what the European Union and NATO are doing! That is why Bulgaria is in such a difficult situation, so we make our own actions. And as we found out at the hearing, we are currently doing uncoordinated actions with the European Union to have to send us Task Force, which will put our brains in the head about what to do with Europe and how to do it. Because obviously you don't understand it, and that's going to do a lot of damage, unfortunately. You may soon be gone, very soon...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u212	Whoa!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u213	...but the consequences of your actions, Mr. Chairman, this is the wheel of life, there is it painted on the wall in each church will stay years ahead. The damage to the pro-European and pro-NATO orientation of Bulgaria will remain with you. Because most citizens are misled that you are leading European and NATO policies. And our partners in the European Union and NATO are fully aware that you are light years away from them and they understand very well, Mr. Ananiev. And that's why no one wants to work with you except Volt. Be alive and well! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u214	For the procedure Nikolai Angov. Then for speech Dragomir Stoinev and Tsoncho Ganev. [[Noise and lines.]] By 2:20 p.m., it's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, this time the procedure is indeed a procedure in the manner of conduct. Your absence allowed it to become a sitting discussion, including MPs began to speak first names, to speak absolute nonsense, fictions, the fruit of their imagination. So, please, let's put together an effort to get this discussion into normal frames. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u216	Thank you, Mr. Angov. I agree with you completely.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u217	Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u218	Just a second. Let the debate really be on the draft solutions. At the very least, there seems to be a majority to set up at least one temporary committee. Mr. Nestorov, you were the first person to do the time extension. The next procedure in the manner of holding Mr. Nenkov wanted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u219	Not a procedure in the manner of holding the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u220	About time. [[Heckling]] Okay, we've got 16 minutes left. There's two people on the record. Maybe we'll have enough time. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be brief. We at the BSP will support the committee of inquiry. By the way, these Committees of inquiry over the years have been watched by dozens of people. Moreover, here in Parliament we also have a procedure through parliamentary control, whether it be oral or written, to obtain the necessary information. But if the opposition so much wants to have a parliamentary committee of inquiry, we will support it there is nothing wrong with that. There's been a lot of talk, a lot of political talk. I think this inquiry committee is more like a purely technical understanding of what really happened and how these natural gas suppliers appear. But there is no way we can pass up political speeches. Here the blame is thrown on the government. I think it's clear to all of us that the truth is one thing, the truth is that when there are sanctions, there will be counter-sanctions accordingly. The question is: does Bulgaria comply with the contractions or does it not comply? In the European Union, the idea is to prohibit payment in rubles and not to be paid in rubles. If other countries pay in rubles and receive natural gas, then, fellow Members, we must really think seriously. However, if European policy is not to be paid in rubles, then we have no other way to get natural gas. We are still waiting for the famous Treaty from Azerbaijan, we are still waiting for the gas connection with Greece to be built, so we have no alternative. I don't want to be a lawyer maybe to the Prime Minister, but blames the Prime Minister for what he was doing right now in the United States of America. Okay, guys, if anyone thinks that liquefied gas is put somewhere in the countries, someone's sitting around waiting for a buyer to come to book, buy and leave, it's just not like that. Look at a Germany.. how the negotiations with Qatar were blocked. Qatar wants long-term contracts, Germany wants shorter contracts and it is normal for Germany to ask for shorter contracts. Because, colleagues, we have all signed or approved, or we are adopting legislation concerning the Green Deal, which includes decarbonisation, right? Accordingly, in each country it is specific and that the Prime Minister is seeking liquefied gas from the United States of America, I, of course, see nothing wrong with that. Another is the question, though, if someone says: OK, but at what cost will it be? Yeah. The opposition, colleagues, is right in many things, especially in fairy tales that come out of the Council of Ministers and statements. They really need to be more moderate ministers in their fairy tales, and when they say something, they need to be fulfilled, not give the opposition an excuse to attack us, because in many cases they are right. Whether the government was ready or not, I believe that when you stop natural gas for a week, you must do everything you can to avoid blocking the economy. So if this gas is Russian, if it's Azeri, ultimately the goal is to find natural gas short-term and, of course, to ensure long-term. Some say that Europe should negotiate large quantities. Yes, it is very nice, in words very good sounds, only, unfortunately, colleagues, it is still difficult to achieve and at this stage each country is doing it on its own. Let's tell each other the truth and not fool ourselves. At the moment we need to find gas to sustain the economy, to provide the economy with this vital resource for its existence for the coming months, until this notorious Greek connection is finally made, while there is also Azerbaijani gas that will not be enough. And another thing, there's a lot of talk about the cost of natural gas. Let's look at the price of Bulgarian households natural gas. Because for the first half of 2020 compared to the first half of 2021 the price for households has the highest growth in Europe! For households in Bulgaria is the biggest growth! In Bulgaria, the price rose by 103%, while in Slovakia fell by minus 12%, in the Czech Republic the price fell by less than 5%, minus 1% in Portugal. And in Bulgaria, when we had security of supply, when it was cheap supply, for households the price was European statistics has increased by 103%! Why did that happen? Whether it's a change in the formula we fight in the chest doesn't matter. But these are the facts! That is, we are currently in a crisis situation and if we continue to behave this way: you see now, how it was done, how it was done, for this month, we will not solve the main problems of Bulgarian citizens. Unfortunately, countries seem to be looking for a solution to these short-term problems themselves, because for the long-term, we really need the European Union to take control of itself. Unfortunately, it's slow, it's a more clumsy machine. At this point, when our supplies are cut off, we need to look for an alternative. Yeah, right now our only alternative is liquefied gas. We at the BSP are strongly opposed if someone here starts irradiating us with shale gas, explaining what should happen and how we should use our own deposits. We had research in the Black Sea, we saw that it didn't work out, even though it was the big fanfare back then, we were told how cheap gas was flowing from tomorrow. Unfortunately, because we have natural resources, it doesn't happen. Because in politics and science there is such a science in the world that is called geography. And I want Bulgaria to receive natural gas from Norway, but unfortunately, it cannot happen. I therefore believe that we need to be a little more relaxed, looking for solutions that can lead us to find, firstly, natural gas. I personally doubt that the price that we are supposed to be talking about behind the ocean will be cheaper than the current one, but let's, when we see all the parameters, let's, when we understand exactly how it will happen, which routes will be, then let's sit down and find common solutions for the country. Because at this stage we Bulgarians, rather the political elite should be united rather than show any disagreements and small politics. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u222	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Are there any lines to Dragomir Stoinev? There are, by Delyan Dobrev and by Stanislav Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u223	I only have one quick line. Mr. Stoinev, I'm listening very carefully. You, with these exact arguments, must bring down the government immediately, tomorrow, and I encourage you to do so. As far as the deep Black Sea is concerned, do not rush to write it off, because the Turks have announced that they have $400 billion in their part of the Black Sea. The Romanians have announced that they have 80 billion, proven in their part. And it would be a pity from the south of the Black Sea to have gas, from the north of the Black Sea to have gas, and right here with us nothing. It gets a little bit like that bike story on the left, on the right... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u224	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u225	Mr. Chairman, I will also allow myself to address you very briefly, as you have missed the opportunity to give me a procedure. I'm going to ask you, when someone comes out here and wants someone else to be censored because he doesn't like what he's saying, to remind him that these are elements of the totalitarian regime and they can't be tolerated in this room. Mr. Stoinev, unfortunately, you confirmed a lot of these. But unfortunately, you too, being politically correct, because you have a political culture, I know you very well, something that the newer colleagues find harder to understand how valuable it is, repeat those who are not true. The European Union is looking for common solutions at the moment. The European Union has not been looking for them from now on, searching for them for several months, searching for them even since 2014. But I do not want to go back as far as we go back, the current government, and in particular the prime minister and the finance minister have a direct responsibility for what happened, and they must bear it. But it's extremely obvious. [[the President signals that time has run out]] that they are at the moment alone and that they are at the moment absolutely alone looking for a solution and not together with the European Union. So we cannot expect them to find a long-term solution, how to find a sustainable solution, even less I believe that it is possible to find an economically sustainable solution! If they did so together with the European Union, along with the Commission, as a joint effort, then I would be inclined to believe. But they are currently abusing the name of the European Union and NATO, involving it, generating negatives on its back, doing personal things that are their own. That's why we're in this situation right now, and the negative is paying all of us. But unfortunately, with them gone, we will continue to pay the negative from the anti-European sentiment in Bulgaria. And it will take a lot more time to explain to the Bulgarian citizens why some people along with the revival have ruined the Bulgarian image. As for information from the European Union, you know very well that it is monopolised in Bulgaria and is hiding from the National Assembly and perhaps not understood and therefore does not reach us. I'm talking about the Prime Minister personally and personally. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u226	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Is there a third line? I won't. Will there be an asshole, Mr. Stoinev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dobrev, I hope there is natural gas in the Black Sea. I assure you this will be a great success for the country, but unfortunately, we have not yet found out. As I recall, there was a great euphoria and then Prime Minister Borisov was very happy, even he himself got on the ship, explaining how this would happen, but there is still a technical time when it is discovered and when it becomes commercial this natural gas, it really does sometimes pass years, but hopefully there will be peace for the next generations, hopefully both oil and natural gas. Dear Mr. Anastasov, there are not many places where natural and liquefied gas can be found in the world. And I think that long ago there should have been talks, as you say, on the part of the European Union and even more, if they had started since 2014, there still had to be a solution. What impresses me is this failure of the talks that took place 4 days ago in Qatar with the German government. It is true, I would like to point out here that Germany wanted this gas, the Catarian gas, to be used by other Member States of the European Union, which is indeed a solidarity attitude towards this problem, and so it should be, and accordingly the Catarian State has refused. Then the European Union had to intervene here, to negotiate for example, not Germany itself, but the fact is that the more countries negotiate, and the European Union, if it negotiates as a whole, will find the most advantageous price, but we in Europe also have to ask ourselves the question how long will we use natural gas, because the policy that we are leading to a whole change in the resources that the European economy needs, do we agree with what will be the impact of war? Unfortunately, this war leads to external macroeconomic shocks on the entire European economy, it was entirely unforeseen, but I agree that solutions must be sought at European level. The Prime Minister's visit right now in the United States in search of a solution for Bulgaria I believe that at this stage, when there is nowhere else, is in the right direction, but what will be the price is already one of the most important things and how de facto purely technical will happen, because it is one thing to talk and write on the website of the Council of Ministers, it is quite another when we call the Prime Minister here in Parliament with the real facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u228	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Ganev, last statement. Three minutes to go, guys, I remind you. [[Relations from the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev.]] Are you doing a time extension procedure or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u229	Until the point is exhausted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u230	The procedural proposal is to extend the time of today's meeting until the conclusion of this point, which is the two draft decision on the establishment of temporary committees. We vote on the procedural proposal. They voted 189 MPs: 115, against 5, abstention 69. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ganev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u231	Mr President, I think that this whole debate that has been played here, we have all seen what has been said, confirms the acute need for the committee in question to be drawn up and discussed all these things that have been commented here, because different interpretations of things that are very clear to a large part of the people, but are denied, by the variety of that which should be paid in rubles, provided that no one wants to be paid in rubles, but transfer money to a bank owned by In order to clarify all the questions, the administration in the face of the portfolio ministries, to start answering really with facts and documents, because to date we see various messages from all the ministries affected by this whole case, and that is why this problem is extremely important. It is also extremely important that a representative of one of the brightly expressed pro-European and pro-NATO parties, such as the DPS, speak about the respect, respect and struggle for European directives from this tribune. I would ask you not to use this thing because it is, to put it mildly, falsely, not to say the right word, because it is we who, for each of the bills with which we are wasting our time, are not supporting it. It is therefore important that we draw up the committee in question, and I cannot understand the fear in a large part of the people here, the point that is in our proposal, namely in the committee to discuss taking a national responsible position of Bulgaria as a member of the EU in discussions and claims of decisions regarding sanctions to the Russian Federation and specifically in the part concerning gas supplies, this thing frightens the House and you want to vote separately. I'll tell you why. Because six of the parties that are in parliament will vote against, so that these Euro-Atlantic values are not affected, which Mr. Anastasov avoided mentioning and saying that all six parties, except for aging, confessing, and here you have declared it, have no shame. No, it's embarrassing, but it's not embarrassing for you to say it, yet these are your political messages from all six parties. That is precisely why I call, apart from setting up the committee, to discuss this point in committee, because it is important, we are a parliamentary republic, we are not prime minister, we are not presidential, we are not a kingdom and we are not dominance, it is important in Parliament to discuss this thing and Parliament to give a clear and precise position and resolution what a national responsible position to take in these discussions. Because you have all seen, it has just been commented that the so-called Euro-Atlantic values, when they reach ultimately for money, Germany goes to Qatar and starts negotiating supply conditions. Today she refused, when Russia stops the gas supply tomorrow, she will go and sign her contract. They don't care about anything else and they don't care about Bulgaria, and there's nothing wrong with them, they look at the interests of their business. Our duty as MPs in the Bulgarian Parliament is to protect the national interests of the Bulgarian business and the Bulgarian national interests, and not community interests, as stated during the crisis with the virus the health minister, as subsequently, when the crisis broke out with the price of electricity, Minister Vassilev explained that we have Community interests for the liberalized market and what we wanted from the age, to get Bulgaria out of the liberalized market? And when it was said to him, he said: but then you will ask for an exit from the European Union. Well, yeah, we're gonna ask for a referendum. I therefore call on you to support the creation of the committee in question and to clearly and precisely vote here on a resolution in which to say what and how to stand as our government's positions, because our government, since it was created, has been defending any other interests, but not national ones. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u232	Are there any lines to Tsoncho Ganev? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. First, we will proceed to the vote on the editorial amendments proposed by Desislava Atanasova in the Draft Decision on the establishment of a temporary commission, which was submitted by Peter Petrov and a group of MPs. We will then move on to voting on the two main proposals. In the order of entering the first is GERB-SDS, the second is of rebirth. I will now read the editorial proposals of Desislava Atanasova in the draft decision of Petar Petrov and a group of MPs. Dessislava Atanasova's editorial proposals are as follows: In the title after the word, please add a comma and the word "agreements." Then in t. 1 after the word.......................................................................................................... Again in t. 1 after the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Point two in the Draft Decision to be as follows: The committee of study consists of 14 Members of Parliament elected on a parietal principle by two from each parliamentary group. Point 3 shall be: "Selects a guide and a composition of the Temporary Committee of inquiry as follows: Chairman:... Members:... Point 4 shall be: The Commission is examining and establishing all the solutions, agreements and contractual relations that the Bulgarian State is undertaking towards gas supplies to the country and which is in practice the text of 1.1 comma:.. as well as all the circumstances related to the suspension of gas supplies from OOO. Gazprom Export.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Point 5 shall be: The Commission is analysing and preparing an impact assessment of the actions undertaken by the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, short-term and long-term plans regarding gas supplies. 1.2 of the basic project. Point 1.3 of the basic project to be dropped. Point 2 of the basic project to be withdrawn Point 3 of the basic project shall be renumbered to item 3. 6 and acquires the following version: The Commission shall examine and analyse all documents relating to the contracts, anexes and letters signed by the members of the Council of Ministers concerning the supply of natural gas to the Republic of Bulgaria from 1 January 2022, as well as the documents relating to the content, parties and subject matter of the documents adopted and signed by the Ministry of Energy and the Council of Ministers concerning the suspension of gas supplies and the choice of alternative suppliers. Point 4 shall be renumbered as t. 7 and acquires the following version: The Commission shall draw up a report on the results of its activities and the facts and circumstances established. points 5, 6 and 7 are deleted; Point 8 acquires the following version: The committee in question shall be elected for a period of two months. These are the editorial proposals of Desislava Atanasova. Please, voting mode. Vote 196 MPs: 104, against 83, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. We are rethinking Dessislava Atanasova's editorial proposal for changes to the draft decision tabled by the rebirth. They voted 196 MPs: 86, against 83, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Now we move on to the main proposals. First I will read the project submitted by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs because it was not read at the beginning: Project! DECISION on the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the Verification of the Circumstances that led to the suspension of natural gas from the OOO (Gazprom Export) and the procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers from Bulgargaz (EAD) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It sets up a Temporary Commission for the Verification of the Circumstances that led to the suspension of natural gas from OOO (Gazprom Export) and the procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers from Bulgargaz (EAD). 2. The temporary committee consists of 14 Members of Parliament elected on a parietal principle by two from each parliamentary group. 3. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Committee of inquiry as follows: Chairman:... Members:... 4. The interim committee shall establish all facts and circumstances relating to the suspension of gas supplies from the OOO "Gazprom Export" and the procedure carried out by Bulgargaz "EAD" in order to provide alternative natural gas supplies. 5. He examined and analysed the documents related to the establishment of the content, the countries and the subject of the documents adopted and signed by the Bulgarian Ministry of Energy and the Council of Ministers on the suspension of gas supplies and the choice of alternative suppliers. 6. The interim committee shall draw up a report on the results of its work and the facts and circumstances established. 7. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of one month. This is Delyan Dobrev's proposal and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. Vote 202 MPs: for 202, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] The motion is accepted. The next proposal to set up a committee will read it again. ? RESPONSIBILITY? establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances concerning the actions and intentions of the Council of Ministers regarding the supply of natural gas to the Republic of Bulgaria. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Set up a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances concerning the actions and intentions of the Council of Ministers regarding the supply of natural gas to the Republic of Bulgaria concerning: 1.1. Tracking all decisions and contractual relations that the Bulgarian state is taking towards gas supplies to the country. 1.2. Review and analysis of the impact assessment of actions undertaken by the government of Bulgaria, short-term and long-term plans regarding gas supplies. 1.3. Taking a national responsible position of Bulgaria as a member of the European Union in discussions and decision-making regarding sanctions against the Russian Federation and specifically in the part concerning gas supplies and payments. 2. In its work, the Temporary Commission may attract specialists, request data, reports and opinions from suppliers, gas carriers, companies, state regulators and all participants in the natural gas supply process to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, to hear and require a report from members of the Council of Ministers, whose powers are the decisions on the issues. 3. The Temporary Commission shall examine all documents relating to the contracts, letters and letters of intent signed by the members of the Council of Ministers, as well as to those relating to the supply of natural gas to the Republic of Bulgaria by analysing the content, parties, subject matter and appropriateness of the clauses in the signed contracts, anexes and letters of intent and whether they correspond to the Bulgarian national interest. 4. The temporary committee shall complete its work with a report within three months of its establishment. 5. The interim committee shall consist of 14 Members of Parliament elected on a parietal principle by two from each Parliamentary Group and shall be headed by a Chair and two Vice-Presidents. 6. He elected as Chairman of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances concerning the actions and intentions of the Council of Ministers in relation to the supply of natural gas to the Republic of Bulgaria... 7. He elected as Vice-Presidents of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances concerning the actions and intentions of the Council of Ministers in relation to the supply of natural gas to the Republic of Bulgaria... 8. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of three months. This is the proposal of Peter Petrov and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. Vote 198 MPs: 70 against 71, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. Revoting! Vote 194 MPs: 68 against 70, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. We move on to completing the composition of the Temporary Commission, which was established under the draft decision of GERB-SDS, two from each parliamentary group. We're continuing the Change? Nastimir Ananiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u233	Dear Mr. Chairman! On behalf of the parliamentary group we continue the Change.We nominate Radoslav Ribarski and Vasil Stefanov as members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u234	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of GERB-SDS, we nominate Mr. Delyan Dobrev and Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. Mr. Delyan Dobrev for Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u236	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u237	We nominate Mr. Stanislav Anastasov and Mr. Ramadan Bajram Atalay from the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u238	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u239	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, we nominate the gentlemen Dragomir Stoynev and Vladimir Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u240	Thank you, Mr. Popov. There are such people who nominations? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From the parliamentary group there is such a people as members of the Commission we nominate Mr. Ivo Atanasov and Mrs. Snezhanka Trajanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u242	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we nominate the members of the Energy Commission Vladislav Panev and Ivaylo Mirchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u244	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mrs. Mihailova, for nominations by your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u245	We nominate Angel Georgiev and Tsoncho Ganev from the parliamentary group of arbitrarors as members of the Commission by making a proposal for President of the Commission Angel Georgiev because otherwise we will continue to watch the media theatre of GERB with the support of part of the ruling coalition. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u246	Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the "We continue the Change" by the two nominated colleagues we nominate Vasil Stefanov as Chairman of the Temporary Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u248	It's your turn to nominate the chairman. Come on in, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u249	Mr. Chairman, I have the reverse procedure of Mr. Ananiev not because of him personally. Look, to make an inquiry committee to investigate the government, and the chairman to be from the ruling coalition, this par excellence is absurd, it can't happen. If this happens here, we immediately say that we are making a commission to mask all those abuses and anti-European policies of the PP. There's no need.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u250	Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman! The passions got hot. The PP didn't have a candidate for chairman, but apparently when they heard my name, they got worried. [[Voices by "We continue the Change": "Eee!", applause by GERB-SDS.]] In this regard, and in order to have peace and consensus in plenary, I withdraw the nomination for President. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u252	Mrs. Atanasova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I am also surprised by some reactions, but we really do insist on transparency, publicity and clarity for decisions made. In view of the rejection Mr. Delyan Dobrev made for his position as chairman of the committee, I propose Mr. Delyan Dobrev and Mr. Daniel Mitov, by proposing Mr. Daniel Mitov as chairman of the committee. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u254	Here you go, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the light of the circumstances, I, too, would like to recuse myself from Mr. Ananiev's proposal to be President of the Temporary Commission. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-11.u256	Anybody else want to make a statement? I won't. We have two nominations for the President at the moment. One is Daniel Mitov's and the other is Angel Georgiev's. Let us vote first on the membership. Point three is as follows: "Selects a guide and a composition of the Temporary Commission as We'll pick the chairman in a few minutes. ???????????????????? I read all nominations: Radoslav Ribarski, Vasil Stefanov, Daniel Mitov, Delyan Dobrev, Stanislav Anastasov, Ramadan Atalay, Dragomir Stoinev, Vladimir Marinov, Ivo Atanasov, Snezhanka Trayanska, Vladislav Panev, Ivaylo Mirchev, Angel Georgiev, Tsoncho Ganev. We vote 'em enbloc. Vote 198 MPs: for 197, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We're going to vote on the nominations for chairman. We'll vote them alphabetically on their first name. First, we vote on Angel Georgiev's nomination for President of the Temporary Commission. They voted 141 MPs: 18, against 63, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on Daniel Mitov's nomination as Chairman of the Temporary Commission. Vote 179 MPs: 166 against 2, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. With this Mr. Mitov was elected President of the Temporary Commission. Before I close the session, I read a message: On 9 May 2022, the National Assembly received a request from Ms. Krasimira Filipova as Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, under the Order of the Prosecutor General of 3 May 2022 to grant permission to continue the criminal proceedings against the MP Rena Encheva Stefanova in pre-trial proceedings No 496/2021, according to the description of the CCC, prosecutor's file No 24355/2021, according to the description of the SGP, for a crime under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3, proposal last, letter.......................... proposal 2.............................................................................. Point 1 (b) of Article 2, in conjunction with point 2 of Article 1, 342, para. One, proposal three of the NK. By letter dated 10 May 2022, the President of the National Assembly informed the National Assembly of the request and the opportunity to familiarise himself with the attached materials. On 11 May 2022, by written consent, the national representative Rena Encheva Stefanova informed the President of the National Assembly that she agreed to continue the criminal proceedings at the request. By letter, the President of the National Assembly has notified the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consent given by the National Assembly, applying a certified copy of the written consent. The next regular meeting will take place on 12 May 2022, Thursday, at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
