ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please register. Registered 126 MPs. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Before we begin the blitzcontrol, I give the floor for a declaration by Hristo Ivanov on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u2	Mr. Chairman, thank you. My fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, I will take some time before the beginning of the parliamentary session for a declaration, but it seems important to me. The Russian war against Ukraine is a logical conclusion to the long-standing attempts of the Putin regime to revise the international order and impose its hegemony and development model in Eastern Europe. For decades the Kremlin has been pursuing this goal throughout the region through a wide range of instruments for intimidation and demoralization, propaganda public opinion processing, economic dependence, erosion of institutions and corruption of management elites. Bulgaria is among the most affected by this type of hybrid penetration of countries in the region. A series of governments closed their eyes to this threat and directly or indirectly, with actions or omissions, served Putin's policy on our territory. February 24th should serve as a moment of truth for society and especially for our political class. Bulgarian politics must undergo a serious change through a clear purpose and the will to unite around the national interest. The plaque removal of all forms of vulnerability, penetration and influence by the Kremlin regime must be derived as a major national task within a systematic deputisation policy. The government is making significant efforts in this direction, but in our opinion they do not represent a comprehensive and consistent political course of the ruling majority. The ruling coalition is sinking into small brawls, fluctuations, inefficiencies and lack of clearly defined priorities in the face of the crisis, unlocked by the Russian invasion in Ukraine. The opposition, even in those parts that are declared systematic and Euro-Atlantic, is attacking with populism governance even when it is trying to deal with inherited forms of Russian influence, such as the rapid release from Moscow's energy dependence. In our society, there is the illusion that Putin's war can somehow be ignored or left without consequences for us. The venom of Russian propaganda is spreading, the suicidal lie prevails that the inclination of a head to the Kremlin and the turning of eyes from the crimes Russia is committing will somehow spare us the need to defend our freedom, values and our European way of life. After our unsuccessful effort to reach an agreement within the ruling coalition around a clear and decisive position in support of the Bulgarian interest, the Ukrainian people will be able to resist the Russian aggression, we of the "Democratic Bulgaria" understand that we need to change our approach. We believe that the elimination of Russian influence in our country should be declared as our main task and as a leading criterion for assessing the work of the government, the coalition majority and the National Assembly as a whole and of the meaning of their existence respectively. We bring out the following priorities: 1. The security sector: increasing the capacity of the security services to counter all forms of Russian influence and hybrid impact on Bulgaria, including through the implementation of a program to check the employees of the special security and loyalty services to the Bulgarian state; assessing the effectiveness of the different units and implementing a comprehensive program to increase their capacity for counter-intelligence and fight hybrid attacks, propaganda and disinformation; strengthening the security council's capacity to coordinate and control the work of the services; strengthening the parliamentary control over the work of the services. 2. Defence: implementation of an ambitious programme for the decisive modernisation of the Bulgarian Army through investment in human capital, re-arming, development and cooperation within NATO, including a programme for the accelerated acquisition of new weapons and equipment; full use of the opportunities for the acquisition of arms by our allies against the provision of our obsolete platforms; readiness for defence spending to reach, and, on specific readiness and to exceed 2% of the gross domestic product in 2023 at the latest; creation of an investment fund for re-energisation and sustainability of defence funding; increased pay in the army; development and maintenance of multinational forces on our territory; strengthening the Allied Combat Group; continuation of the joint Air Polysling with Union participation; optimization of the Maritime Security Coordination Centre in Varna as an element of NATO and the EU networks; creation of an accelerator between the Ministry of Innovation and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Industry, the academic sector for the implementation of the most advanced technologies in defence and the whole sector. 3. Diplomatic relations: a phased application of the principle of proportionality in the number of the Bulgarian mission in Moscow and Russian in Sofia by the end of this year. 4. Energy: to make a national goal of achieving zero dependence of the Bulgarian energy sector from Russia, including by continuing and providing broad parliamentary support for providing gas supplies from sources independent from Russia; to make full use of all opportunities related to the Green deal; to achieve independence from Russia of oil supplies and to ensure that the activities of 5. Penalties and exceptional measures: the development of a Bulgarian package of sanctions against the Russian Federation and specific natural and legal persons related to Putin's regime, and of special instruments for their effective implementation on our territory, including a freezing instrument and assume-no control over assets of the Russian Federation and other sanctioned persons; instruments for tracking, controlling and lighting financial flows from Russian sources, including media and political or public organisations in Bulgaria; the possibility of stopping Russian-related capital from entering strategic sectors; the elimination of all investor privileges of sanctioned and related persons; the ability to take control of strategic sites currently controlled by Russian Federation or Putin regime, for example on the coast or part of critical infrastructure in the country. 6. Economics: policies aimed at ensuring national energy independence should be accompanied by measures to support those affected by possible adverse economic effects when carefully targeted during time, subjects and size. 7. Justice and Anti-Corruption: Corruption is a key portal for the penetration of Russian influence in various aspects of our public and institutional life, and deputinization requires reform and effective judicial bodies, as well as for the prevention of corruption. This is why judicial reform is a key element of deputisation policies, including an accelerated implementation of the coalition agreement on the reformation of the Commission on Prevention and Fight against Corruption (CPKCONPI), a new cycle of consultations on the establishment of a parliamentary majority to amend the Constitution in order to reform the Supreme Judicial Council and the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria; consultations on the possible formats for the implementation of the parliamentary quota procedures in the Supreme Judicial Council and the composition of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council in so far as they require a constitutional majority of two thirds. 8. Media and public life: countering Russian propaganda, false news and other forms of hybrid influence in the media, social networks and public life in guaranteeing democratic character and legitimate freedom of speech; ban on using the symbols of the Putin regime and Russian aggression in Ukraine. We will demand that these priorities be embedded in a government management programme, as well as reflected in the majority legislative programme and adequately secured in the budget update. Accordingly, we will initiate the negotiations with the mandates of "We are continuing the Change" and the other coalition partners in this direction. We believe that these priorities should become the basis for a broad political consensus to ensure broad parliamentary support for their implementation. Accordingly, we will begin consultations in the National Assembly on the adoption of a declaration to outline these priorities and to seek broad support for them. We will also propose other specific parliamentary instruments for seeking dialogue and common action in these directions. Each of the above priorities will be complemented, developed and will become the basis for specific legislative proposals and other actions with appropriate parliamentary instruments by We know clearly that the country needs decisive action, not another election, and that is why, as we have so far, we will not speculate with ultimatums and threats that we will leave the government. We declare in the name of what we are ready to support and state exactly how we intend to work for its stability and success. We are convinced that responsible politicians and MPs will understand that, after 24 February, we cannot fail to adapt our programming priorities and the formula of majority management and parliament to new realities. It's time for responsibility and dialogue, not another discord and drama. Adopting the above priorities is not just the correct response to threats to our homeland by the Putin regime, it is also the best possible basis for forming effective reformist governance with a clear focus. Breaking up with the Putin model of influence and influence of Russia in Bulgaria means the country to decisively exit the swamp, means a real fight against corruption, means a real recovery of the institutions, means ambitious modernisation and unleashing the potential for economic development. At this difficult time we have an age-old chance to free Bulgaria from some of the toughest and most stubborn burdens that have hindered its progress. Let's do it! Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Before we move on to the blitzcontrol, I tell you that the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in the implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of a plane with crew members of the Swiss Air Force. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, permissions to fly over the country's airspace should be granted to the countries concerned after a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas. The Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notification was received on 11 May 2022 with entry No 47-203-09-48 and was submitted to the Defence Commission. I find out: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. As part of the members of the Council of Ministers who participate in the blitzcontrol have a commitment in a national forum, so within the framework of the blitzcontrol we will have to be a little more flexible. Deputy Prime Ministers Grozdan Karadjov and Borislav Sandov can be here by about 10:00 and the Prime Minister will come around 10:00 to 11:00. All three have a commitment at this national forum, so first we will start with the questions to Grozdan Karadjov and Borislav Sandov. We begin with the questions to Grozdan Karadzhov. I won't miss any questions for anyone. Are there any questions for Grozdan Karadzhov? No, okay. Are there any questions from the group of GERB-SDS to Grozdan Karadjov? No, you don't have one for Mr. Karadjov. Thank you. Does the DPS have any questions? I won't. Both of your questions are to Kiril Petkov. You're not going to Grozdan Karadjov. Okay. BSP? You don't either. Is there a question for Grozdan Karadzhov? I won't. Mr. Karadjov, thank you for participating in today's blitz control. [[Applause.]] I'll see you later today. Is there a question for Borislav Sandov? I won't. Is there a question from GERB-SDS to Borislav Sandov? I won't. We heard about the DPS. BSP doesn't have one. Is there a question for Borislav Sandov? Is there a question for Borislav Sandov? I won't. Mr. Sandov, thank you. There are no questions for you in today's blitz control. [[Applause.]] I say again, Kiril Petkov will be here around 10:00. Is there a question for one of the Deputy Prime Ministers present? There is. Here you are, Mr. Mitev, for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Five months since the ministers swore an unprecedented situation of global and internal crises, and yet the facts are facts. The fact is that last month's industrial production index is up 20%. The fact is that with average European inflation of 12% Bulgaria managed to maintain 10% inflation. [[Voices from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] The fact is that the budget is surplus. The fact is, out of 33 billion. The debt is 31, which is a diminishing debt. My question is to Mr. Vassilev. Mr. Vassilev, what are the factors of the Bulgarian economy that you are currently observing that allow this growth of the Bulgarian economy despite the harshest opposition despite the most absurd proposals of the opposition and despite all the crises we are going through? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u5	Here you are, Mr. Vasilev for an answer. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u6	Thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u7	Quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u8	I see there's some excitement in some of the groups, if you don't want an answer... In the last five months, we have witnessed several very serious crises. One started at the end of last year with an increase in energy prices. The second major crisis that we have seen, of course, is the war in Ukraine, which has led, on the one hand, to significantly more difficult and expensive supplies, especially for the Black Sea states. You know, and ship bonuses and some of the ships refuse to enter the Black Sea, and on the other hand, led to serious problems with stockpiling and building materials, as well as on the world markets where Russia and Ukraine export, also led to quite serious quakes due to a shortage of raw materials. What we observe in the Bulgarian economy is actually an increase in production, and it is significant. The increase is over 20%. The same thing applies to exports. This is largely due to Bulgarian companies and Bulgarian workers that they have done their job well and have been effective. What the government has managed to do with the help of parliament is to provide relatively stable prices for the main energy sources. For example, the price of electricity. September-October last year for the business was about 240 "250 BGN." megawatt. The price of electricity after compensation for January, February and April is about 220 BGN. In March, around 250 were higher, but we managed to maintain electricity prices after the large-scale compensation programme at the autumn levels last year. The price of household electricity is at the levels of July last year, and this is unprecedented in Europe. There is no European country that has preserved its main energy source, as for us is electricity, at the levels that were at the end of last summer. In most European countries, these rates are up 20 to 30%. The price of gas, which is the imported energy source, has risen throughout Europe. So are we. That we didn't take the entire amount of Azeri gas, limited the ability to keep the price of gas somewhat, because the Azeri gas is on an oil-indexed formula and there the growth is significantly smaller. The gas that was coming from Gsprom is 70% TTF, 30% oil, which means that with the rise in prices on European exchanges there the price jumped dramatically, talking between three and four times. However, the government has put in place a compensatory scheme for domestic consumers and in terms of the price of gas paid, we have managed to keep price levels relatively decent, and despite the interruption of gas supply, the price levels currently stated in the KEWRC are similar or slightly lower than those that were April months. So what the government has done is to ensure a reasonable environment and not prevent business from working and ensuring predictability of basic energy resources. From then on, all the credit belongs to the Bulgarian business and to the Bulgarian workers. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u9	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. There's no line. Does GERB-SDS parliamentary group have a question for any of the attendees? Desislava Taneva, come in. Here you are, Mrs. Taneva, for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u10	My question is to the Prime Minister, but since he is absent, I will ask him to Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u11	He'll be here at 10:00, Mrs. Taneva, if you want to ask him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u12	But the Deputy Prime Minister is generally directly dealing with the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u13	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u14	Mr. Vassilev, my question is about the purchase of wheat by the media on March 4th to ensure the food security of the country worth 1 billion. And 100 million. lv. A little chronology. On 9 March following this media announcement, the Minister of Agriculture confirmed all this at a hearing in the Committee on Agriculture, said what types of grain are we talking about. tons of wheat, 350 thousand. A ton of sunflower, and there was 400,000 corn. the tone in the original version. Announcements prices at which the state will go on the market were then 15% lower than the market, to date this rate is already twice as high. I say chronology. On April 4th, your representative in the management of the Ministry of Agriculture, Deputy Minister Hristnov, confirmed the same intention of the state, confirmed the same prices and said on April 4th that after 10 days the purchase of wheat began. I'm going back a little bit further after April 4th, I'm just giving the chronology as confirmation that within each week there was an announcement from the authorities that it entered the market. These are quantities of wheat, which currently represent more than half of the availability at the moment, which is record for any year. At the same time, at the beginning of March, a massive check was started after the announcement of the purchase of all operators of grain exporters. Exports were endlessly difficult, operators began to pay penalties on the international contracts they had. An action that is absolutely unacceptable, and I hope it will not happen again. At the same time, prices continue to grow. The first company, which was designated a buyer by the State, unclear why a commercial company was designated, refused the opposition was indicted. A second company was defined, there is a ruling by the Council of Ministers [[Heckling]] I'm done. My question, Mr. Prime Minister, before the start of a campaign we are, every announcement of your power affects this completely free and transparent market to interference of power: if the state buys the amount, because there is no data from the media about it so far, if not, does your intention remain in force, so announced, by the amount of funds, by types of grain and at prices that have already been announced. wheat and 1,400 leva. for the sunflower?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. But I remind you that questions may not contain a request for detailed numerical data.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u16	They're already represented.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u17	Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u18	Thank you for the question, Mrs. Taneva. First of all, a few details. The checks shall not be carried out in relation to the announced intention of buying-in but shall be carried out in relation to the stocks to be seen by the State, first of all, and stocks of stocks and the possibility of fraud with them, second. And they were dictated by the war in Ukraine because we had to be absolutely aware of what stock there is in the state reserve, do these stocks really exist in the state reserve and what other grain stocks there are in the country. I suppose we all agree that the war in Ukraine, given that Russia and Ukraine are two of the main exporters of grain, would lead, as well as to a significant shortage of grain worldwide and an increase in prices. From this point of view, it was absolutely necessary for the Bulgarian government to be aware of what grain there is in the country, to make sure that there is enough grain to ensure the benefit for the next year The conclusion is that there is! From now on, there's no merchant who's fine enough to be afraid of checks. They have neither been invasive nor in any way imposed on him additional burdens, as you say. Neither have we adopted new legislation, nor have we adopted new regulations, nor have we made new procedures. The only thing the Bulgarian authorities have done is to comply with all existing procedures and legislation. If this is unprecedented as a burden for the Bulgarian business, my question should rather be addressed to this part of the Chamber: why is it unprecedented, why have we not so far respected the legislation and procedures that have been adopted? [[Applause from.. We continue the Change.............................................. Noise and lines by GERB-SDS.]] About the answer to your question directly. There is a decree by the Council of Ministers for 1 billion. And 100 million. lv. That 1 billion. And 100 million. lv. are provided and translated to the company concerned. It has the means, from now on I personally cannot tell you how far the Ministry of Agriculture has reached with the organisation of the purchase of the grain. As far as I know, they have plans, but I don't follow them on a daily basis. As a finance minister and as Deputy Prime Minister, my task was to ensure that there is enough grain in the country, to ensure that there are funds for the deployment of such a programme, there are funds to be voted by the Council of Ministers. There is a Minister of Agriculture who is from now on operationally engaged in bringing this programme into action in the best way to protect the interests of both Bulgarian consumers and Bulgarian farmers who need feed to produce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u19	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u20	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I don't know what the hall applauds you when you didn't understand! A ship may not leave the country for export without the relevant documentation and inspection. What was done was to delay this export to ensure the remaining grain, but this is another topic. I understand from your answer that you continue and claim to continue this operation. It is an absolute failure and cannot be in favor of anyone, nor will it be successful. You can't buy any grain on these terms. Your campaign announcement is important. Since the money is indeed provided, the company has not yet recorded the increase in its capital, it has not even stated it. I appeal to you to make any sense of this at all. We had a conversation when you were at the hearing, I think, in the Committee on European Funds if then, Mr. Vassilev, even half the money you had given immediately as State aid to livestock farming, it would have bought grain at already 30% lower prices. It's a pointless operation, the only thing it can lead to is spending a state resource, practically drained. Because I don't know if you can imagine this quantity there is a multinational operator in Bulgaria that can manage and store. It's practice, it's experience, it's rules. Very please, I call on... I hope that those who are already in control of your quota have entered into the essence of matter, this cannot happen, it is a failure. The funds are available, give them to those affected as soon as possible, so that they can make an estimate of the activity. You can't buy at this price any ton. And another announcement. I know there's a line now and you're gonna answer me politically, but I'd love for the sector to actually answer what you're gonna do. Yesterday, a message came out from the Transport Commissioner for Joint Corridors in connection with 21 million. tonnes of wheat lying in Ukraine must be exported urgently. There are road maps to the app, you're probably familiar with it. In these road maps Bulgaria is deeply affected. I am giving you a proposal that is of much greater benefit to the sector. There is also the port of Varna. Remove these batteries from the Recovery Plan, turn on the port of Varna to be competitive at Constanta...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u21	Why didn't you do it when you were in power?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u22	One ship 80,000. The tone goes out for a day, here for a week. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u23	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u24	Ms. Taneva, first of all, one comment. Port of Varna and the export corridors did not appear in these maps by accident. They showed up on these maps because we've been working on it for two months. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] It is no coincidence that after the talks with Ukraine, when you voted on the Decision on Ukraine's assistance, there is a point specifically related to export logistics that they need for the simple reason that their ports are currently closed and cannot be used. So, in fact, a basic aid that Bulgaria is providing in very close cooperation with the government of Ukraine and Romania is an opportunity to export Ukrainian goods and products, including grain, a small part of which is in Odessa. As for the port of Varna, the recovery plan has been made. As you know, for the port of Varna, let me just say that instead of paying some 450 million. lv. for extrusion of Varna in order to reach Varna West and to pay these funds under an inhouse order which is absolutely illegal under the ADFI report and is given to the prosecution, these same 450 million. lv. could be given to improve the infrastructure of the port of Varna. However, they were not given to the port of Varna, they were given to some Russian subcontractors to improve the infrastructure of the private ports during the extrusion. My question is: why? Why? As for whether the Ministry of Agriculture and respectively at what prices it will buy the grain, I said again: the Ministry of Agriculture is working on it. As regards whether these funds can be granted as State aid, the maximum amount of State aid is given, which is allowed by European rules. We have requested additional exceptions and everything we have received as exceptions is also given. You know better than I do, we cannot go to give additional subsidy and additional State aid beyond the existing European frameworks. Everything there is within, and everything we have received as exceptions, is powered by funds. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u25	In the manner of conduct! Procedure! Absolutely!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u26	Yeah, well, let's hear the procedure in the manner of conduct, but let's not be a continuation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u27	No, Mr. Chairman, believe me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u28	I trust you for the moment, I hope it stays that way.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u29	You certainly have your doubts. Mr. President, I am making a note to you, despite my extremely high appreciation for you as Chairman, for not making a comment about Mr. Vassilev, who came out of the subject of my question. We talked about the opportunity that is being given to us, and it will be in connection with the situation very relieved to change the battery project with the possibility to raise the capacity of the port.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u30	Okay, thank you for the procedure, Mrs. Taneva. [[Replications of Deputy Prime Minister Assen Vassilev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u31	Oh, you can't! And one more thing! [[Replications between MP Desislava Taneva and Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev. Laughter by.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u32	Okay, we're moving on. We've learned from the DPS that the two questions are for Mr. Petkov. Mr. Gutsanov, are you with a question from your parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! I would be happy to have a debate on the port of Varna and discuss what and how should be done, but now my question to Mr. Vassilev is another. There is no one who is not fully aware or more fully aware of what our country's real economic situation is in Europe and how our fellow citizens are going through. A heavy, difficult state, huge pressure on the economy, affects every single family. In this regard, my question is this. We commented several times in the Chamber, in committees, that an update of the budget is pending. Has the preparation for this budget update started? What measures do you provide to ease the state of every Bulgarian household? Can you think about raising the minimum wage of 760.. 770 BGN, proposals that several of us from BSP for Bulgaria.?............................................................................... Or, if not, there's a minimum threshold of an indeterminate minimum that will also ease the lives of families. Can you think of a ceiling of certain goods, especially of a first need, in order for people to have certain security? And the energy aid we're talking about, the households, the people, the business, the economy, how you see them in this budget update so that we can actually preserve the economy. God willing, even if we take a step forward in this difficult situation and especially ease the lives of Bulgarian families. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u34	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u35	Thanks for asking, Mr. Gutsanov. The situation is difficult especially for the Bulgarian families, especially for the poorer of them. As for the economy, what we see is growth in production, growth in exports, but we are currently at the highest level of exports in the history of Bulgaria. For March we have a record month in the whole history of Bulgaria as exports. We have an increase in production compared to pre-crisis levels, compared to 2019 even, not only to the age of a horse. As I explained earlier to the previous question, this is largely due to the fact that Bulgarian companies and workers have organised themselves well, and as far as the government and the National Assembly have helped, it is that we have succeeded by increasing the compensation programme, which happened January month. The European Union has given us a derogation for keeping electricity prices at September-October levels last year, which is also unprecedented in Europe. Household prices, electricity prices are at July levels last year. You yourself know what has happened in all countries, including our neighbouring countries - Greece, Romania and so on. All this gives the Bulgarian companies competitiveness. Yeah, their situation isn't easy. But what we have also talked to employers is that levels of energy sources, as they were in 2018, not only in Bulgaria, but nowhere in the world will there be. Bulgarian companies have adapted to this reality quite successfully. We can see they're taking you out a lot. [[Reply from DPS.]] We import oil, Mr. Chobanov. [[Reply from Peter Chobanov.]] But as far as the specific questions you're asking are concerned. The minimum wage has been raised since April 1st, as we know. It was raised by 11%, which is about the inflation rate at the moment. Families were exempted from a number of costs.. costs for kindergartens were borne respectively by the state budget to municipal budgets, sectoral salaries were also significantly raised, you know, in the education sector, in the health sector. At the moment, the ministry of ministry is under review, so there are other key sectors where, by reorganising, there will also be an increase in pay. We see an increase in average salary and in business. The measures that can and should be given are currently being discussed, as you know, as part of an anti-crisis package and an anti-inflation package. Life and health, at the beginning of next week will be officially announced all measures. They include a combination of cost relief for both business and the most affected groups of citizens and that they remain more money in the pocket of the most affected groups of citizens so that they have more resources to meet their needs. In conclusion, what I want to say is that the situation is difficult and it is difficult throughout the world, not only in Bulgaria. But what we see is that at the level of energy sources Bulgaria managed to preserve the levels that were from last summer and autumn, which gave a competitive advantage to the Bulgarian companies and allowed Bulgarian citizens to feel less shock in the bills coming along the line of pleasure and construction materials especially at the moment. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. For a line, Mr. Gutsanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! I am pleased with the answer, but I would also like to make an appeal to you, indeed, in the update to be made, all possible measures will be taken to alleviate the lives of households. Inflation is very strong and hopefully to be stopped, not to get to larger sizes, something that is not up to us. These are global and European tendencies, once and twice, you know that Bulgarian pensioners over 2 million of our citizens are in one condition, which is not the most enviable. I ask you, as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, to make sure that when the update comes in here, every Bulgarian family feels that the government has thought about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u38	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. You don't want a hole, Mr. Vassilev. Here you are, Mr. Alexandrov, for a question from "There is such a people."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! Minister Vassilev, my question relates to the fact that about two weeks ago the updated average annual budget forecast of the Ministry of Finance by 2025 came out. Although this is a forecast and it cannot be talked about a trend, it is the impression that for 2023 and for the following, the defence costs that are being planned are being spent in two directions. The first is the purely military budget, and the second is the costs, to say them under a line, in the state budget, which is primarily capital expenditure and related to modernisation. So the costs that are in the military budget for 2023 have a substantial reduction of those that are for this year by about 200 million, but in general they have been transferred to costs under a feature and the overall increase is visible, not to mention figures. The point is that, since this interests troops and personnel, this reduction is in the purely military budget, which could be in three directions. This is above all the costs that are from the capital costs of the Ministry of Defence or the cost of maintenance, in order to be most likely to be able to consolidate expenditure in the Ministry of Finance in order to better implement modernisation projects, but on the other hand, if these are expenditure related to the capital costs of the Ministry of Defence's budget, there is a danger or at least a view that they may disrupt the activities of the Ministry of Defence's management in relation to the flexibility of some small projects from the Ministry of Defence's portfolio. We hope that these costs are not linked in the third main direction, which is for staff. Please comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u40	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u41	Mr. Alexandrov, thank you for the question. The answer is actually very simple. In the budget of the Ministry of Defence as capital expenditure, projects are bet on which the Ministry of Defence has stated that it is ready to implement and pay back in the relevant year. If it is not ready to implement and pay back the projects, they shall be placed in the central budget and, where appropriate, when ready to implement and pay back, the central budget shall be used to repay them. What is seen is the transfer of expenditure from the defence budget to the central budget, because there are projects of a nature for which they are not ready to be implemented and paid out in the relevant year, and that is why they enter into the central budget. When it is ready to be implemented and paid off, of course, they go to the budget of the Ministry of Defence, that is, the Ministry of Defense has given us fewer projects in future years, which is also normal, for which it is ready to be implemented and paid off. Given the situation, we have provided a lot of buffers in the central budget so that, eventually, when these projects materialise, we have provided funds for them so that they can be given to the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Here you are, Mr. Alexandrov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u43	Thank you for your answer, Minister. This was important to emphasise because, on the one hand, raising the management of modernization projects to a higher level, and on the other hand, the application that these would not be funds taken from staff and personnel funds was important to hear from you as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u44	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. From the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? No question. Here you are, Mr. Ganev, for a question from the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u45	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vassilev! Today in this room a short time ago, a representative of your party said loudly that inflation at this time is about 10%, which is an absurd one that I will not comment on. However, you have repeated several times that the business is so exported because you have made electricity at the levels that have been since autumn, since summer, and at the same time this business pays three to four times higher electricity bills. I do not know exactly how and what accounts you think and which data you show for only specific days or for a specific month, because for the entire period the business pays colossal bills for electricity, in times higher, but I will also not analyse it myself. Most likely the people who listen to you, when they look at their accounts, will draw their own conclusions. Against this background I am sure that in the Ministry of Finance and you in particular know very well what the real picture with family, micro-, small and medium-sized business is, big, big business in Bulgaria and what is the raging inflation real. We all see what food prices are in stores, and we all see that everything has risen in times more. Aside from all of this, in the past week and in general since this parliament was established, the ruling coalition together with GERB and DPS have repeatedly declared their Euro-Atlantic orientation and their firm support for the introduction of the euro. As long as Bulgaria entered and applied for entry into the so-called waiting room for the euro, without the mandatory analysis that the BNB should do, and this governor, who is currently a manager and refuses to commission such an analysis, so that the government before you and you as a ruling coalition can see what the benefits, risks and cons for this thing are. So, on this whole background, the introduction of the euro and this plan, which you discussed at your coalition council, is, to put it mildly, demagogy for us and for a large part of the Bulgarians, because today there was a statement by one of the prominent world scientists in the economy, Steve Hanke, who said that Bulgaria should not introduce the euro, especially that we under contract have no obligation to do it exactly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u46	The weather, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u47	My question to you is: as a government and you as Deputy Prime Minister, do you continue to sit behind that Bulgaria at this time from 1 January 2024 should introduce the euro as a bargaining chip in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u48	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u49	Mr. Ganev, thank you for asking. Just to say that there is no increase in the total price background in the country in times. I won't! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] There is an increase in prices, but they are not in times. The other thing you said about electricity is the price for the business for September and October, the weighted average that the business paid, and the price that the business paid, weighted average, at megawatt hour in January, February and April, they are the same. Specially for March we have an increase of 240 BGN. at BGN 200,50, because there the compensation, when imposed on prices, led to effective prices slightly higher than the prices that were for September and October. These are the prices of megawatt hours paid by business. The prices of megawatt hours paid by the population have not changed since 1 July last year as they were on the July account last year, and they are on the bill now. So if someone's up five times their bill, the only way that's gonna happen is if they've made five times more consumption. Especially for people and for families just the prices have not been touched, regulatoryly they have not been touched, no one has raised them. Now, about your question about the euro. The plan we discussed was public since 5 July last year. On 30 June last year, it was adopted by the coordination council, and on 5 July last year it was published for public discussion. So this plan, the entire population has seen it, continues to see it, has it now uploaded to the website for public discussion and has received some technical remarks about some of the deadlines that are not related to the date of its introduction. This plan explains clearly and in detail the technical work that needs to be done in order to introduce the euro on 1 January 2024. You are absolutely right that this technical plan does not replace this to make a document on the full effects of introducing the euro on the Bulgarian economy. This document is actually what we discussed at the coalition council about this document in the Ministry of Finance and BNB. I think it was done a long time ago, and now it can be renovated, done again, and launched also for public discussion, and someone will say: 'Yes, these are the effects on the economy of introducing the euro.' I mean, since there were various opinions that the plan clearly states that the euro is being introduced at the current rate - BGN 1,95583. for euro, i.e. there is no change in course and is introduced at the existing exchange rate. The target date is 1 January 2024. You asked me if we were behind the euro being introduced. The answer is yes. The main reasons are three. The first reason is that de facto with the currency board we have already introduced the euro into the economy. When the European Central Bank printed euro and this created inflation, this inflation comes to Bulgaria. We do not have the opportunity to print more or less leva so that we can manage this monetary policy. This is the board. If we had this opportunity, if we didn't have a board, this would be a very different discussion. But we have a board, and I believe that no one in this room wants to remove the board. If we are not going to remove the board, we have de facto adopted the euro. From now on, entering and adopting the euro, this gives us a place in the room where decisions are made on what policy should be, because now, with the board, we follow this policy without being able to influence the decisions made on its formulation. By adopting the euro, we will have the same effect that we now have with the board, but with the slight difference that we will be able to influence how this policy is formulated. Our voice will be heard inside this room, and this is extremely important, especially in these severe crises and especially in this difficult situation, as you know, which requires very brave and unconventional solutions in both economic and political terms, which are taken throughout the world and not only in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev, for your comprehensive response. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Is there a line? Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u51	Mr. Vassilev, I will not qualify some of the things you said as a lie. I'm gonna leave the judgment to the people who are listening to us right now and listen to us for what you just said. I will just mention that an analysis over the years to enter the so-called waiting room, there is no written reply from the Governor of BNB at all. As for what you're talking about again about the price of electricity and you spent a lot of time, I say again: I didn't start analyzing this because we don't have parliamentary time. Business does its own math and watches its own invoices. I'd also qualify that with a proper word, but I'd say it's not true. As far as the euro is concerned. Look, the last countries that entered the euro area have currently a record inflation rate of the euro area itself has a record inflation rate. What you want to do and what you are giving as income is, to put it mildly, utopia for a very simple reason - just a few days ago the official discussion and decision of the biggest countries in the European Union, which said they would take and agree such decisions, that small Member States could not veto strategic decisions relating to fiscal, health policy and accession, and the enlargement of the European Union. So to explain that you will have a rather influence on the decision-making of the European Central Bank and on any other decision related to monetary and fiscal policy, let's put it mildly, let's not use the word lie again, but it is utopia.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u52	Use it three times. Maybe you'll get a note.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u53	My opinion and the opinion of the ARRANGEMENT on this is that it is unacceptable and we have no moral right to bring Bulgaria into the euro area. Moreover, Bulgaria should not in any way enter the euro area in any way, but should be asked whether it wants to go there, because these are extremely important and strategic decisions that do not concern only your mandate as a minister or this Parliament, nor the next, and these are decisions for years to come, on which the Bulgarian people should rule. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. Just to say that while we are dealing with this utopia, whether we should enter the euro area or not, yesterday at a hearing in the Financial Commission it became clear that you as principal and the Council of Ministers as principal of the Bulgarian Development Bank are discussing guaranteeing loans to Ukrainian refugees. I'm sorry, but this is demagogy. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u54	Here you are, Mr. Vassilev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u55	I will not use political qualifications as demagogy, although what I just heard is exactly that. Now let's get back to the issue of the euro, because this is the central topic. What has Bulgaria done with the Currency Board right now? Bulgaria has said: we accept all decisions of the European Central Bank against monetary policy, because there is no way to print a lev without it having a euro guarantee. That is, how good or bad is the policy of the European Central Bank, this effect is with us, whether we have adopted the euro or not. So if ARRANGEMENT does not offer to remove the Currency Board, this effect will continue to remain with us. Whatever inflation the European Central Bank makes, it automatically comes to Bulgaria until we have a Currency Board. If you're proposing to remove the Currency Board, say so yourself. If we have the Currency Board, all decisions of the European Central Bank reflect directly and directly on the Bulgarian economy. As to whether when we are in the room with a voice and an opportunity to vote and an opportunity to talk, we can change European policy, the answer is: we can. I give you the freshest example of the policy on the oil embargo. We have a voice.. we have requested and we will receive the same exceptions from the oil embargo as the other European countries receive. If we didn't have a voice, we'd get handles. So when it is important for Bulgaria, when we know how to defend our policy, we can protect our interest. If we are not in the room where the decisions are made, there is a very nice saying: "If you are not sitting at the table, you are part of the menu. " - We do not want to be part of the menu, but we want to sit at the table. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Mr. Karadaye, for a procedure in the manner of conduct? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the change continues from bad to worse, according to the model of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u58	I guess I'm guilty because it's procedure in the way of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u59	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna have to ask you not to interrupt me so you can understand that the problem is you. Mr. Chairman, according to the GERB model the ministers usually have more important matters than to appear in the National Assembly in a parliamentary republic such as Bulgaria, but we understand that. This power began and thus was created in violation of the Constitution and the laws of the country. Usually, Mr. Chairman, according to your terminology, their actions are represented by some factual inaccuracies that we heard earlier in Mr. Ivanov's declaration. Mr. Ivanov made a declaration urging media capital to be tracked in order to see who is making what propaganda and who is dependent on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u60	Mr. Karadaye, it's still a procedure in the manner of conduct. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u61	Mr. Chairman, it is in the manner of conduct. You should have told Mr. Ivanov and reminded him that three months ago on February 14th, a nice date and holiday, there was a question asked to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Kiril Petkov: who, what funding and what capital is there in the media in Bulgaria with which they operate, whether and how they were provided with State and European funds, whether these funds were delivered by direct negotiation or by public procurement, including whether among the criteria there are requirements to be present in the register of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria, as is the requirement of the Law? The question is from 14 February and is asked by the Bulgarian MEP Mr. Ilhan Kucuk from DPS - Renew Europe, President of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u62	The weather, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u63	Mr. Chairman, to Mr. Ivanov you should have told him:...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u64	I'll ask him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u65	Yeah, but if one more time...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u66	Mr. Karadaye, you've already been thirty seconds over time by procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u67	...break me up, Mr. Chairman, I don't think you'll understand why you're there.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u68	Quiet, please! Mr. Karadaye, the procedure is for me. I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u69	Mr. Chairman, and three more times you interrupt me, but I'll finish my speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u70	You're already over time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u71	But one more time, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u72	Come on, finish it, but please! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To tell myself the sentence: You should have reminded Mr. Ivanov that if he is sincere and insists on accuracy and what he said in the declaration, he should rather leave this power, which is not transparent, does not implement the Constitution, does not comply with the laws of the country, so that Bulgaria can really take a democratic path, because there are some suggestions in the public space that a circle called "Capital" is financed by state and foreign funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u74	Mr. Karadaye, I'll take your word for it. This is a declaration, not a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u75	This publicity we have been waiting three months to see and not just for them, but for everyone to see who is on the media market in Bulgaria. But once again, Mr. Chairman, remind me that the Constitution and the laws of this country must be implemented on your suggestion perhaps, until the Prime Minister arrives, to announce a break. We'll wait for him. Obviously Bulgaria will no longer be a parliamentary republic, but it is a prime minister, but it is a matter of Constitution, and it is not a matter of measure or sensations of anyone. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u76	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u77	Mr. Chairman, the way you're being led. This is absolutely outrageous! Coming out man and four minutes... absolutely empty claims to make these absolutely empty without any argument and... [[Voices from DPS: "Hey! "]] [[Noise and shouting from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u78	Order, please! Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u79	... You let him talk for four minutes?! It's a total abuse! Abuse! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u80	Mr. Letifov? [[Definitions between the MP Halil Letifov and the Chairman, away from the microphones.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. The chairman just warned me to watch what I say. I'm gonna stick to the whole procedure. Mr. Chairman, measure with an archin. You left the deputy prime minister to be factually inaccurate more than the time he's been told by the rules. Of course, we understand that for the Council of Ministers Constitution, laws and Rules of the National Assembly do not apply to them. Then you let one of your people, I was going to say a group, forgive, fellow party, go out and treat the president of a 32-year-old parliamentary group and a party that stands the way of Bulgaria as a value in NATO and the European Union, with disrespectful attitude. Tell you what, Mr. People's Representative, you have not grown up with your behaviour, with your actions, with your merit for the country, so that you can have a similar attitude towards the country's democracy in its fight for democracy, for defending the path to NATO and the European Union, which you are now reaping with the combine. You've come ready, mate! Ready! Understand it! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u82	Just one thing to say. Unfortunately, these procedures coincided precisely with a visit to the plenary. We're sorry about that. Welcome! Mr. Karadaye, your procedure has taken the character of a declaration. [[Reply by National Representative Nastimir Ananiev: "Absolutely. "]] It's not admissible. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev. Let's stop these procedures and get back to the questions. By the way, the Prime Minister is on his way, so you will have the opportunity to ask your questions to him, as I said at the beginning.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. In fact, in two aspects. First of all, yes, you're right. Half of Mr. Karadaye's statement was a statement. He has the right to take a declaration instead of responding through a procedure of Hristo Ivanov, and to state the position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. What Mr. Letifov said that a member of the Council of Ministers could take the floor in 10 minutes at any time. [[Noise and lines.]] He can have it in the Service in ten minutes. [[Noise and lines.]] It's in the Rules of Procedure, so please read what it says. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] It's explicitly in the Rules of Procedure that thing. So there is no need to speak with an edifying tone to the MPs who are here for the first time to set an example with a one-manage 30 years back in the transition, which is not an example in general to set it as an example, so a little more calmly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u84	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Wait a minute, Mr. Karadaye. First of all, for what I said, I'm holding on to it, your procedure was a declaration. In fact, you just didn't get a statement because during the blitzcontrol, you couldn't make a statement, so you disguised it in the form of a procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay. Second of all, yes, the Minister may take... [[Replys from DPS: "There was a declaration.]] But before I started the blitzcontrol, associate professor Chakarov. To Mr. Ananiev. A member of the Council of Ministers may take the floor at any time, but if it is not on the agenda, then the groups shall be entitled to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u85	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u86	Mr. Karadaye, is it necessary to continue with the procedures?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u87	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u88	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So the procedure was important. Here, you have just defined the conduct of the ministers in this Chamber. They're still coming. There are various procedures in which they can take the floor: when they have to answer questions.. to answer questions; when they take the floor for a statement as Minister.. to take the floor for a statement as Minister. Thank you and excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u90	Thank you. After this lyrical detour of 10 minutes, we can continue with the questions, I hope.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u91	[[DPS, from place]] : Aren't you going to announce a holiday not on behalf of the group, we do not want, but on your proposal we have blitzcontrol.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u92	Wait a minute. The second question from.. We continue the Change......................is it to any of the people present? No, okay, I get it. It's the Prime Minister's. The second question from GERB-SDS "Is there to any of the attendees, or is it to the Prime Minister? And you've got him at the premiere, I understand. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Just a second! If there is one person present, why would it be necessary? From the BSP for Bulgaria to the second question? No, okay. From "There is such a people " a second question? No. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? No. From rebirth? Not either. Then I'll rest until Kiril Petkov arrives for 15 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u93	I'm resuming the hearing. In order for a question is the parliamentary group of.. We continue the Change. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u94	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is, of course, related to the topic of gas, which is quite current at the moment, and affects all Bulgarian citizens and business. My question is to Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. In principle, we all know that war affects Europe's economy, but this sector is particularly affected by what is happening. Even when the good news from the United States came about the contracted liquefied gas, we immediately felt the hybrid pressure on social networks and not only. Other forms of protest, unfortunately, were also activated by political entities. But my question is not about the liquefied gas, it's about the Azeri gas, Mr. Prime Minister. It is said that we will start to receive the full contracted quantities of Azeri gas in September or October. Is this true? Is there any way this could actually happen sooner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you go, Mr. Petkov for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is a very important issue because energy security depends on our diversified natural gas supplies. As you know, we have been able to negotiate very good prices, very below European market prices, from the US, but the good news today is that what has so far been linked to the implementation of the Greek link, in order to have supplies of Azeri gas, will no longer be that fact. We'll be able to get the entire amount of Azeri gas before the connection is finalized, starting July 1st. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by "We continue the Change."]] This shows that when there is a real drive for diversification and a real desire for diversification, our partners are ready to lend a hand. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u97	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Come in for a cue, Mr. Ananiev. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Keep On Changing]] Subcutaneous or intravenous use Dear Prime Minister, thank you for this good news. I would like to congratulate your efforts and the efforts of the cabinet to deal with this crisis, but in fact, once again you have managed to break down many of the opposition's bases, which have been practicing quite often over gas and what is happening there. But once again the government proves that the opposition produces false news and we work for the interests of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. A hole? There's not gonna be a duvet. Zhecho Stankov for a question from the parliamentary group of GERB SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u99	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! During the government of GERB, every deal that was organized by the Bulgarian government for the supply of liquefied natural gas was publicly available with very clear simple rules "Who in the world is ready to deliver gas to Bulgaria at a price lower than the one which the KEWRC determines or at a price lower than that paid by Bulgarian citizens. With your arrival in Bulgaria from your visit to the United States, you told the media that you had negotiated two liquefied gas vessels, repeatedly asking you the question of who would deliver it and at what cost you avoided the issue. I hope you'll answer me right now. What will be the price at which the gas will arrive in Bulgaria? Who is the supplier of this gas? When's he coming? Because I can also show you a reference to the terminal in the Revitus that at the moment the state cannot reserve capacity there because the capacity for the month of June is completely full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u100	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Here you are, Prime Minister. I just remind you that detailed numerical data cannot be required within the blitzcontrol. Specifically, I'm saying it for the price. It could be a matter of regular parliamentary control. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u101	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, I confirm that the price is lower than the one at which we bought from Gszprom and the current market price of Gsprom and will be directly supplied by an American company without an intermediary. Between the Bulgargaz and the US company currently has a contract that allows this delivery to be a fact. And just because you haven't figured out how to get these ships into the gas system, you don't have all the information. I can assure you that both ships will not only be delivered, they will also be inserted into our energy system. I'm not the Minister of Energy. You may address the direct questions to him, but I can assure all MPs and Bulgarian citizens that the two ships will be delivered, put into the energy system at a price below that of "Gazprom." Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u102	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Here you go, Mr. Stankov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u103	Honourable Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! Colleagues, have you heard my two questions about what the price is and who will deliver them? Did you hear the answer? No. Mr. Chairman, always during the time of GERB, when such a procedure was imposed and such procedure was carried out, the specific figures of the KEWRC, or a discount from the price paid by the Bulgarian citizens, were made public in the space. This is not happening at the moment and we want transparency because it is already 13th day on the territory of the country it is not clear that the bakers who bake their bread, the heating companies that produce hot water, the taxis that drive on natural gas, all the others at what price do they buy the gas?! Mr. Prime Minister, in connection with and with the speech of your co-partner Mr. Ananiev, GERB has never allowed himself to exercise on the topic of gas. I'll give you an example outside the gas sector. Just because you went to Adrianople and saw that the palamood was 10 cents a kilo cheaper doesn't mean that you negotiated cheaper fish for Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] The Palamud, in order to come to the table of the Bulgarian, first, must be delivered, respectively all the costs of transport as well as gas, to pay the fee of the terminal for regasification, to pay the fees also to the gas operator DESFA in Greece, which at best is five euros per megawatt, at best. And you told the media that we didn't have the capacity of the terminal, which means that in your account with a slightly lower price of gas this figure is not included at all. The other thing is, you're not comparing the right ranges. You can't say that the price of this gas you negotiated is lower than the price of the previous month. This month the price of gas should drop by 30%. Why? Because the TTF, which priced 70% of our price, fell 30% further and several percent fell oil derivatives. So all that is 142 leva. minus 30%, above this could not be a lower price for Bulgaria, because it will be higher real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u104	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Is there a duplicate, Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u105	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I really admit that I have no idea of a palamood in Turkey. I'm sorry! [[Noise and lines.]] But what I want to assure you is that, in fact, all this time, you've been trying to tell us over the years that there's no diversification, because there's still a fact that the gas connection with Greece hasn't been made. However, it turns out that the connection with her Mesemvria gives us the full opportunity to inject the entire amount of Azeri gas and this will show the Bulgarian government that in all these years there was no diversification not because it could not, but because there was no desire for it. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u106	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. [[National Representative Zhecho Stankov wants the floor for procedure.]] Mr. Stankov... No, she could be two minutes, but she could be with me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u107	Mr. Chairman, I have used in my main part and in my line the opportunity to ask two questions. Either way, I didn't get an answer to either. You said the one with the discount would be confidential or we couldn't demand it right now. At least we should have heard the name of the company because again no tender or competition was held to know the Bulgarian citizens by whom, at what price will they buy the gas. Is that right? We need to know who we're buying the gas from and at what cost. If it's lower, how much lower will it be? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u108	Mr. Stankov, you're out of procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u110	Okay. Thank you. A question from the DPS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister Petkov! Yesterday, before...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u112	The address received, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u113	Dear Prime Minister Petkov! I hope you do it to others, Mr. Chairman. So yesterday, before the meeting of the Council of Ministers, in your typical style you tried to make another suggestion on the address of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the MP from the DPS Mr. Delyan Peevski. Since we know very well that by 2007, you have sought your own luck in another part of the world, you cannot be in class that the DPS is the party that makes the main contribution to Bulgaria's membership in NATO and later in the European Union, precisely with a government with the mandate of the DPS, of which, by the way, Mr. Delyan Peevski is a part, so we understand your confusion. Our question is how, for God's sake, all the facts listed here and against the backdrop of the indisputable history of the DPS as part of the democratic history of Bulgaria have come to the conclusion that DPS and Mr. Delyan Peevski may have something to do with the South, Turkish or Balkan stream that you like, all three, or any Russian ties, or is that another lie you have?! I will urge your answer to be based only on irrefutable facts and evidence, so that we do not turn this high and holy tribune of the National Assembly into another source of false news. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u114	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Is this a matter of the government's common policy?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u115	Yes!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u116	Mr. Petkov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u117	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! What has become clear to all partners in the European Union and NATO is that one of the main instruments of Russian foreign policy, and more precisely the policy of the Putin regime, is the use of corruption. Through corruption, this regime manages to influence foreign countries, foreign governments, and much of this corruption goes through energy projects. When one country decides to build a Russian stream, let me put it another way - Russian flow across the territory of Bulgaria, without having a chance even the poorest part of Bulgaria - Northwestern Bulgaria, to have the opportunity to draw from this gas, and spend three billion of our money on all of us, then there seems to be another reason. [[Noise and lines.]] And when, unfortunately, you see even the range rover that's parked in your colleagues' garage, [[noise and lines]] , the colleagues from GERB can record it, yes, then you can see how this relationship is absolutely connected. And unfortunately, in all of you who have been part of this corruptly motivated scheme in my opinion, all of our partners see this and make it very clear that this type of project is a standard method of influence in foreign countries. So this was part of our conversation in Washington and a conversation in Brussels. In connection with your specific question, the only thing I know is that when I met with US Treasure, they shared that "Magnitski" as applying in a foreign country is the largest in Bulgaria so far and, of course, one of the three people of "Magnitski" is Mr. Delyan Peevski. That's all they said. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] At Treasure they specifically said Mr. Delyan Peevsky's name as one of the three who are on this list. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u118	Thank you. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Okay, but you have a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u119	A line, but he doesn't answer questions. There's a procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u120	Is there gonna be a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u121	There'll be a line!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u122	It's gotta be the line first, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u123	Extremely esteemed Prime Minister Petkov! It is remarkable how you met with the US Treasure building really, without a single person, without a single name, without any proof, without a single fact! [[Noise and excitement.]] [[(Applause from DPS, GERB-SDS and shouts:]] You've already started a little skilfully avoiding the names so that they don't disprove you later and you're fit for a slice. But the answer to the question I didn't get. Answering the question means you're running away from the suggestions you made yesterday. However, in order to cross your opportunity to continue with the factual inaccuracies of the President's dictionary and the false news, we from the DPS are importing a project to immediately establish a temporary committee to examine all the facts and circumstances surrounding the South, Turkish or Balkan Stream which you like. [[Noise and lines.]] And Russian flow, and your Russian flow! In this order of thought, yesterday after the failure of the hearing in the Budgetary Commission for the Bulgarian Development Bank and all the mess that you have involved there and which BSP and ITN, by the way, objected, and after the total refusal of your prior BBI priorities, again through the media, you made an introduction on the address of DPS and our MP Delyan Peevski. Obviously this is done to cover up your heavy ties and business dependencies with Russian and other eastern capital and oligarchs, many of them apparently part of the special services of the countries concerned. Thank you, colleagues. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u124	There was no supplementary question here! Colleagues, I suggest we stick to the blitz-control that there are questions, that there are answers. [[Noise and lines.]] For everyone! Will there be a hole, Prime Minister, or not? No, okay. Let's start with the procedures. Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. President, today, in the manner of conduct, I have tried to make a note to you that there are different procedures under the Rules and under the Constitution, the ministers can take the floor at any time and make statements of political, non-political, whatever they want. We cannot have any relation to this, in this procedure, when ministers are speaking. But, Mr. Chairman, today is a blitz-control day. It's 10 to 11 right now. Until 15 minutes ago, the Prime Minister was not in the Chamber of the National Assembly. Now, as he is present in the Chamber of the National Assembly, when he is asked questions to motivate and justify his lies spoken yesterday, with facts and evidence, he is trying to speak anything else, but not admit from this tribune that yesterday what he did was an honest lie. And if you don't like the concept of a lie, it's a factual inaccuracies, as you say, which has no facts behind it. And as for the attempt at suggestion under the law, as far as we know, America is a democratic, rule of law. Peevski, a colleague under the laws of the United States of America, has also appealed to his statement under the "Magnitski." On the other hand, including Mr. Kiril Petkov as Minister of Economy under the "Magnitski" had answers on questions asked to him and his signature sits under documents that Mr. Peevski had nothing to do with it. So Bulgaria has legislation, Bulgaria has a Constitution, but obviously for Kiril Petkov neither the Constitution nor the laws of the country nor Bulgaria is important! [[Applause from DPS.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u126	There are other procedures here. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Wait a minute. [[Reply from DPS: "Tell him to come out! "]] Careful, fellows, please! No lines, tell him to come out. [[Reply from DPS: Check it out!]] We're not checking anything. Order, please! [[The National Representative Tsoncho Ganev wants the floor.]] You, Mr. Ganev, are for a procedure in the manner of conduct, but Temenuzhka Petkova from GERB first asked, so first Temenuzhka Petkova and then Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way you're led. Please, when this tribune is being made, even though it is the Prime Minister of the country, you make a strict remark about this because it is not the first time. False suggestions are being made regarding the Balkan Stream project. I don't know how long Mr. Prime Minister has assumed that there are some corrupt practices on this project, I don't know what this is based on, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u128	We get it, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u129	...Mr. Prime Minister, this project was built with the decision of this Chamber, of the Bulgarian Parliament, without a single vote against.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u130	Mrs. Petkova, this is not a procedure of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u131	Under all the rules of the European Union and under European law.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u132	I'll take your word for it. It's not a procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u133	And there's not a single penny of taxpayers' money. Stop lying! [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u134	I took your word for it. It's not a procedure in the manner of conduct. That's enough! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Mr. Ganev and then Dessislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u135	Mr President, once again you have demonstrated dialogue, but I would like to ask, on behalf of the parliamentary group, for the delay of the Prime Minister, most likely for very important reasons not to come to Parliament in time, to extend his hearing so that all the groups can ask their questions and have an opinion of the groups. It's extremely important! Many important things have been heard, important things have been said, some things have not been said, and it has not been said that South Stream was stopped by American senators who came here and stopped this project.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u136	Mr. Ganev, you're coming out of the procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u137	I therefore ask you very much to extend the time to ask all the questions and opinions of the parliamentary groups!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u138	Thank you, Mr. Ganev, but the blitzcontrol is fixed in art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure, without the possibility of a moment, without the possibility for the National Assembly to change it with a decision of either the location of the Programme or the duration. [[speaking indistinctly]] So I rather suggest instead of leading procedures to move on to questions as far as we can ask. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova. [[Reply.]] Okay, I have you in mind. Mrs. Atanasova has been waiting before you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, a procedure in the manner in which you are being conducted. I was under the impression that you closely monitor the rules of the Rules of Procedure and whenever someone is allowed from the parliamentary tribune to make suggestions, to issue sentences, to interrupt them. Mr. Chairman, this is not what you did when Mr. Kiril Petkov called the MPs part of a corruption scheme. Mr. President, it is obvious that you are aware of the damage to parliamentaryism, the foundations of statehood and the destruction of the authority of the institutions leads not only the presence, the late though, of the Prime Minister in the Chamber, but everything he has said. Please take a note from my procedure and every time someone is allowed from the parliamentary tribune to use such a language, to interrupt it and if necessary, to point the door at it, because the door is over there and this room does not deserve such treatment! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u140	Thanks for the procedure. Halil Letifov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I have a procedure in the way it leads to you, it will be brief. You're right about the blitz-control at 11:00, but it starts at 9:00. And you're right, there should be order in this room. I therefore believe, Mr President, that it is necessary to order a chemo-toxic analysis of everyone present in this Chamber. I think this will help to bring order to the Chamber, and it will become clear if any Members present have any idea whether they are in plenary or elsewhere. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS]] [[Applause and laughter by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u143	Mr. Chairman, lately all parliamentary groups have been taking procedures towards you and telling you what the MPs should not say and how they should not speak and how you should interrupt them when they say something false. I have a more unusual procedure for you in relation to Mrs. Atanasova's procedure because she is talking about parliamentaryism, about the authority of the institution. You can remind her that she forgot to blush. Tell her, Mrs. Atanasova, you forgot to blush. First of all, because what happened to the gas pipe is, to put it mildly, a schematic is the softest word that can be used. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u144	We're getting out of the procedure, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u145	Secondly, Mr. President, because it is GERB to talk about respect for the institution National Assembly, remembering what damage Boyko Borisov was, is, to put it mildly, scandalous. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u146	Okay, please, let's get back to the blitz control. No qualifications, no insults. Mr. Petrov, are you here for procedure? Art. Do I open 104?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u147	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u148	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. Is the blitzcontrol on the agenda, Mr. Chairman, for today's plenary session? My question is rhetorical. I also believe that it is part of today's agenda for Friday. Therefore, I would ask you to take advantage of the right granted to you under art. 47, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: In exceptional cases the President may propose a change in the agenda during the plenary session. And therefore my proposal is to make such a change that will prolong the blitzcontrol until all questions are asked and opinions taken by the parliamentary groups. I believe that there are such exceptional circumstances associated with the Prime Minister's visit to the United States of America and with the important news that it brings to us from this parliamentary stand. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u150	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. You can't move the blitzcontrol because in art. 104 Unlike other provisions in the Rules, where specific deadlines are fixed, then there is a comma and the text: Does BSP have any questions? I won't. Does the I.N.N. have any?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u151	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! My question is short and it's for the Prime Minister. Mr. Petkov, on May 22nd you will have a visit to the Republic of Northern Macedonia, where you are expected to hold, I suppose, a joint meeting of the two governments. My specific question is: is this meeting of the two governments in full format, or is it just your visit with elected ministers brought by you? And are you expected at the end of this visit to sign some document, whatever it was, with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Northern Macedonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u153	Thanks for asking. The meeting has not yet been finalised in its precise composition, but one is certainly... we are simply continuing the constructive dialogue, but nothing specific will be signed on this date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u154	Thank you. Is there a line? I won't. Is there a question from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? No. From rebirth? Here you go, Mrs. Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u155	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Petkov, given the gas crisis that we are still witnessing, yes, it is currently communication, because you absolutely do not answer any question regarding prices that otherwise widely commented on being lower. Lower than what, by what, for how long? I'm not gonna comment on that thing. But the next crisis to come is the oil crisis. Given the way the Bulgarian state communicates and the positions it holds, we are in a disadvantage not only with our so-called European and overseas partners or something else, depending on the relationship you currently have with them and with other countries. The military conflict affects our economy, affects the pocket of every Bulgarian. As well as Mr. Vassilev claimed that this did not happen this way we all felt it. In this regard, given that at the moment we are not part of the exceptions for oil imports, I know that you are negotiating for this and I wish you success, because this will actually be a success for us Bulgarians, although I have my doubts that this will happen, what will the Bulgarian government do and is there a plan prepared if we have an inverse penalty? Because that is whether we will be able to negotiate something with our European partners, with whom we obviously have a big problem. We have to pray and do whatever it takes to be okay. Although we declare for months how the Community commitments are a priority of the Bulgarian state against the European Union, in the opposite line we see that our interests are totally no one's priority but a group of MPs. What do we do if Russia stops oil? For the first quarter in the only large refinery. Excuse me, I ask the question that is in Bulgaria, 2022. 63% of processed oil is Russian origin, the remainder of 100% are Middle Eastern oil varieties again. [[the President signals that time has run out]] They say they can't handle less than 50%. What do we do if we can't deliver this to Bulgaria? Do you have a specific, clear plan when you will provide it, how you will provide it? Don't let it go the way it does with the gas. And please, answer my question, and don't give me a show show. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u156	Mrs. Mihailova, please. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u157	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the assessment of our efforts, which so far show the result that at this time the European Commission understands that Bulgaria is not in a position to diversify and would put Bulgaria on the list of countries with the possibility to continue importing oil due to the fact that our refinery is indeed dependent at this time on Russian oil supplies. That's true. You have seen about the gas at the same time how quickly the Bulgarian government has dealt with it To your particular question. We are in constant contact with the Lukoil refinery, and they assure us that they have an option and a plan, if you do not give yourself a god, there is such a fact that we will not be left without fuel, but we really do not want to go into this scenario. We're doing everything that's up to us not to get into this scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u158	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Here you are, Mrs. Mihailova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u159	Mr. Petkov, we are also following the statements from the refinery, and in fact what we hear is that they cannot take a reaction earlier than a year, first. Secondly, what you are saying is that you were surprised in 24 hours with some circumstances regarding gas, we were asking the questions at the age of months earlier, as we are now starting to ask about oil. Here, this is an absolutely real scenario. Does it turn out that at some point we'll be surprised again for 24 hours in terms of oil?! I heard what you said. You are a politician and you have nothing else to tell me right now, because it is clear that a plan specific, clear and accurate will not, because otherwise I think you wouldn't have kept it in a deep secret, as happened with the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and so on. If you have something specific, say date, give numbers, tell us when you will provide it, so that we understand it, because for the gas still, although for one month you have explained that you have dealt with the crisis, that everything is fine, we neither know suppliers, nor prices, the business continues to work blindly. You're leaving now with the same rhetoric and oil. We are MPs, our commitment is on behalf of the Bulgarian citizens to ask you these questions and to seek and to expect their answers. And we expect them absolutely concrete because they concern us every single day of our lives, every single sphere of our lives, and we need to be aware of what and how you are doing right now. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Will there be a duplicate, Prime Minister or not? No. Okay. Since it's 11:00 p.m., I'm shutting down the blitzcontrol and moving on to regular parliamentary control. [[Heckling]] It doesn't change the total duration, Mr. Nestorov. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Before we go to the questions, I will read you the written answers to questions and questions received for the period from 15 April 2022 to 12 May...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u161	Now you should have said under whose violation of the laws and regulations of the National Assembly cannot in the National Assembly carry out blitz-control? And the lawbreaker must be named!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u162	There were many procedures in the manner of conduct, Mr. Karadayi, and so there was no time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u163	Since 9:00?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u164	Written answers from: - Minister Aleksandar Nikolov on a question from the National Representative Temenuzhka Petkova; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Asen Vassilev on a question from the National Representative Denitsa Nikolova; on a question from the MP Desislava Taneva and Maria Belova; on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gajev; - Minister Asena Serbenova to a question from the National Representative Elisaveta Belobradova; to a question from the National Representative Ivan Klisurski; to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Radulov; to six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from the National Representative Hristo Gajev; - Minister Atanas Atanasov to a question from the National Representative Andrey Chorbanov; to a question from the National Representative Vyara Emilova; to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tashev; to five questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Minister Bozidar Bojanov to six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister Boyko Rashkov to two questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; to a question from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov; to a question from the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov; to a question from the National Representative Krum Zarkov; to five questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from the National Representative Petar Petrov; to a question from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Borislav Sandov on a question from the National Representative Atanas Mihnev; on a question from the National Representative Vassil Zashkev; on three questions from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; on four questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on three questions from the National Representative Ivo Ruschev; on a question from the National Representative Iskra Mihailova; on six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Minister Georgi Gokov on a question from the National Representative Denitsa Sacheva; on a question from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov, on six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Grozdan Karadzhov on a question from the National Representative Andrey Chorbanov; on a question from the National Representative Vyara Emilova; on a question from the People's Representatives Desislava Taneva and Maria Belova; on a question from the National Representative Ivan Petkov and Blagovest Kirilov; on a question from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov; on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Nankov; on six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Minister Daniel Lorre on seven questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister Dragomir Zakov to six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from the National Representative Petar Petrov; to two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Minister Ivan Ivanov on four questions from the National Representative Aleksandar Dunchev; to a question from the National Representative Vasil Zashkev; to a question from the National Representative Daniel Petrov; to a question from the National Representative Petar Petrov; to a question from the National Representative Zlatomira Mostrov; to a question from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva and Alexander Dunchev; to six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from the National Representative Petar Petrov; to a question from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova on seven questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Prime Minister Kiril Petkov on a question from the National Representative Denitsa Nikolova, on two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Cornelia Ninova to a question from the National Representative Denitsa Nikolova; to a question from the MPs Dessislava Atanasova and Hristo Gadzhev; to six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Minister Nadezhda Yordanova to six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova and to a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister Nikolay Denkov to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tashev; to two questions from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov; to a question from the National Representative Inna Ivanova; to eight questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Minister Nikolay Sabev on a question from the National Representative Atanas Slavov; on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on a question from the National Representative Iskren Mitev; - Minister Radostin Vassilev on a question from the National Representative Denitsa Nikolova; on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tashev; on six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Minister Teodora Gencovska on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on two questions from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov; on six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev; - Minister Hristo Prodanov to a question from the National Representative Vasil Zashkev; to three questions from the National Representative Dimitar Tashev; to a question from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov; to seven questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from the National Representative Hristo Gadzhev. Let's start with the questions to... [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Come in for a statement, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u165	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A year ago the change began, as her godfathers named it, to continue with a hybrid called a government which is a fact today. In fact, this was only the beginning of the political crisis, which has acquired devastating dimensions for everything we are witnessing today. A year ago, after a four-year term, the government of GERB with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov handed over responsibility for the management of President Radev and his appointed caretaker government. At a time of health crisis accompanied by economic, social and geopolitical challenges, however, the so-called parties of change took a course towards rematchism, political confrontation and the promotion of red dividing lines in Bulgarian society. Even then, we at GERB warned that the deep division in society will prevent the solution of any problem to the Bulgarian society and citizens. Our warnings each time faced slogans and clichés from the so-called parties of the protest, which claimed that any change would be better than the status quo of the last 12 years. On today a year ago the government of GERB, or what you call a status quo, or the so-called Borisov model, left the country with the following parameters: gross domestic product of 132 billion. lv.; R & D = 8 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.; in the euro area waiting room with 3% deficit; paid operational programmes; Recovery and sustainability plan; direct foreign investment in the economy worth 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.; 375 km of built highways; 3000 km of rehabilitated roads; 2600 km of water network; 51 treatment stations; 1600 renovated schools; 800 kindergartens and nurserys, also renovated; price of electricity; gas price - BGN 37,70, today are BGN 500 respectively. of electricity and 143 leva. of gas; lowest levels of domestic crime; lowest levels of migration pressure; at least victims of road accidents then. Then, my dear, the bread was BGN 1, today is BGN 2.50. Then the petrol was 2 leva, today is 3.20 leva. Then the oil was 3 leva, today is somewhere 7 leva. Today, one year later, Bulgaria is sinking into an economic crisis, moving at a rapid pace towards a financial crisis and a debt spiral. The standard of living of Bulgarian citizens is significantly reduced by galloping inflation, and the red lines are already drawn not between the parties of the status quo and the parties of change or protest, but between the coalition partners themselves. In the past year, no crisis has been resolved and no challenge has been answered. The argument for combating corruption has run over the rules of democracy and laws. It was frozen construction of highways and road repairs. Purifications were carried out in the administration and state-owned companies. Thousands of Bulgarian citizens were subjected to the repression of the Rashkovo Ministry of Interior. Political engineering was carried out, in the process of which representatives of the oligarchy and the official government interacted to give a professional victory to change. In one night, the Election Code was changed in order to serve the bearers of change by forcefully imposed machines for conducting elections, banned and rejected in all civilised countries. They were taken out of nowhere and produced suspicious figures whose image was polished from morning to night by media, commentators, analysts. During this time Bulgarian citizens were lied systematically that change would bring easy solutions to their problems. A brutal mixed attack against GERB-SDZ was conducted, which ended with an illegal arrest of the leader of the largest opposition party. After all this change won. Is Bulgaria Changed?! Yes, it has changed. Bulgaria is a country with stopped development ruled by charlatans and amateurs who lost almost every influence in the region and in the European Union. She's ripped apart by scandals, with a impoverished population, growing debt. The suggestion that eight billion were stolen during GERB's reign. BGN, each year ended with a commitment of the government to take over government debt of 7 billion only by the end of 2022 and only before the update of the budget. Every week you take on a new debt. Your claims for competence and electronization of management have faced the inability to solve elementary problems for one month there is no solution to the hacker attack against the Bulgarian Post Offices. Today no one can tell when the Bulgarian Post Office will start working, but everyone knows and can tell who is profiting from the inability to work is the owner of a courier company and the Minister of Transport, Mr. Vassilev. During this one year, you have repeatedly trampled the Constitution and the laws to the extent that you have become the destroyers of the law, pointing to guilty other institutions and hiding behind the immunity. You systematically destroyed the country's foreign policy to the point where your prime minister, later called the war a "soldier," and your minister, later a prime minister, had no sense that he was blabbering at war. You've turned foreign policy into what? In a closet. That's the level you were welcomed to. And the sale of national interest clearly perceives you as a retailer, for example a probiotic. Applications for morality and anti-corruption clashed with the late-night deals of Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) with the signing of billion memorandums with offshore companies, with the return of intermediaries to gas. They also clashed with the silence of those who until a year ago saw corruption and abuse in every action of our government. They swore that fighting corruption was their top priority. They are all aware of what they are involved in today, and their silence is the strongest sign that they know what they are involved in, so the slogan "Nuleva tolerance to corruption" is already transformed into "Nuleva tolerance." After a year it turned out that the political system was defeated. And what was supposed to be the extinction of our party, for example, has become a nullification of the state. The Bulgarians, and unfortunately, and some systemic parties, have already seen that behind the call for the disappearing of GERB, a process for destroying the main leading systems in the country has started. Dear colleagues, at the beginning of the 40th National Assembly, I finished my declaration with words and a quote from the Bible. Half a year later, the fruits of the work of this majority are visible to everyone, even those who produced and engineered the creation of this change. These fruits are seen in the disagreements and scandals between the parties in the coalition, in the lack of mutual respect between you, in the mass protests of workers and employers, in the arrogant attitude towards the Bulgarian people and in the chronic tensions. In times of war, division and division in Bulgarian society is unprecedented for our newest history. And these are the rotten fruits of your change. If a year ago you, the parties of change, were sowing your winds, then today all Bulgarian citizens reap your storms. Dear colleagues, fewer and fewer are taking place in this House those representatives of the majority who continue to repeat how they removed GERB from power. I'd like to point out that no one's ever suspended us. GERB completed a successful mandate and complied with the election results. We believed that after us will come a government that will build, which will lead the country towards improving people's lives, the standard, the purchasing power, the highways will be finished, the trend we have started for sustainable development of the country will be maintained. Unfortunately, however, it turns out that we have betrayed the country's rule...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u166	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u167	...in the hands of absolutely untenable people. For one year, society has been living in some kind of nightmare. No one really knows about a citizen, or a representative of the business, what's going to happen to him tomorrow. He doesn't know if he'll be lied to, cheated and robbed. You wanted government without GERB. You got management without GERB. Are you satisfied with the result, honourable representatives of the majority? Are your constituents happy? Shall I tell you? They're not happy. Nobody's happy anymore, and worse, everyone's scared. Absolutely all people have already found out that a plan is underway to destroy the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u168	Two minutes, Mrs. Atanasova, out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm really finishing up. I would like to say that the only good thing is that there is opposition in this Parliament, and thank God GERB is here too, because we will with all our might prevent you from continuing to destroy our homeland. There's only one for us. We have no other citizenship, honourable Members. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] We will work for Bulgaria to once again be a factor not only in the Balkans, but also in the European Union and Bulgarian citizens to live much better, and you have only one resignation left. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Vassilev, you want the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u171	Mrs. Atanasova, since you mentioned my name, I can't help but take the floor. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u172	Let's hear what Mr. Vassilev has to say. I didn't give him a personal explanation. Ministers have the right to take the floor at any time. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Vassilev, come in. I hope you don't get into a controversy with Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u173	No, I'm not going into controversy with Mrs. Atanasova. I will just say that so many untruths, spoken in such a systematic way by the mourners GERB, have not heard in a long time. [[Replications, noise and banging on banks by GERB-SDS.]] I begin directly in the order of the untruths. [[Replications, noise and banging on banks by GERB-SDS.]] You can bang on it, guys, when it doesn't suit you. Mrs. Atanasova, March, have you looked at the economic data?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u174	Rise and shine.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u175	The highest exports, the highest annual growth in industrial production in the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u176	Gun.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u177	Does it matter which sector it produces?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u178	There is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u179	It does for you. The only companies currently having really serious difficulties, really serious difficulties, are companies that are used to receiving money from the state. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] The other Bulgarian companies, as I said, may not have heard during the blitzcontrol, currently the price of electricity is the same as September and October for them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u180	100 leva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u181	The tax burden is lower because we were able to cancel a few taxes, if you remember, during the budget. The minimum wage is higher, the pensions are higher than what you have been trying to do for 12 years and have not done. Higher tax benefits for families. Children's gardens are free, and when you bragged about how many kindergartens you built, you know what we found last year? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yes, 70 million for kindergartens, which is owned by Sofia Municipality. Today, 10,000 children in Sofia could not enter kindergarten. This is your legacy to kindergartens. [[(Applause and cheering:]] In 12 years, you said you built 375 kilometers of highway roads. Let's take your number. That's 30 kilometers a year. If we have to build a highway at this rate, we will not build it for the next 10 years. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u182	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u183	A lot more than you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u184	Quiet, colleagues of GERB!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u185	If we look at where Bulgaria is at the moment on the international map. [[Reply from GERB-SDS: "In the bottom. "]] You said that you left what was a recovery plan left in the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u186	Well, we've been banned.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u187	We forbade you from entering your recovery plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u188	There was a moratorium.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u189	That's right. This recovery plan has already been adopted, not only on it, but on it projects have been launched. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u190	Which you can't pay for a month.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u191	Mrs. Atanasova, I will address you as Chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ.. We have listened to you, in this House it was absolute silence. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] On the contrary, let me finish, fellow Members. Let's hear what Minister Vassilev has to say. Then I will give each of the groups the opportunity to take an attitude within two minutes, as the Rules provide, and you will be able to make your objections to what Minister Vassilev tells us. I'm really asking for silence, fellow Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u192	You're talking about debt. The debt of 31 December last year was 33 billion.. the state, by 30 April is 31 billion. He's down $2 billion. It didn't increase by seven. It has not increased by seven, as you lied to the Bulgarian people from this tribune. The debt is down. The economy is evolving. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Exports are growing. The industry is at levels before 2019. Prices for people and for people are a problem. Inflation exists not only in Bulgaria, inflation exists throughout Europe. It is not peaceful because there is war and because there is a policy of the European Central Bank, which is quite inflammatory so far. Against inflation, as you know, ahead of you were raised both pensions and minimum wage. The second thing that is currently working against inflation, as you know, is a complete package of measures to help the most affected citizens. The other thing that was done is, if energy prices for the business had not been controlled and had not remained at the levels of July 1st, energy prices for the world, this crisis would have been extremely more severe. Let me say this was done, although you left the systems completely dependent on one supplier, especially for the gas, and total destruction and deficit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u193	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u194	The energy system, how much debt did we find her, Mrs. Petkova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u195	You're not ashamed of destroying her. Those are the lies.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u196	Mrs. Petkova, not from the spot. You will then have two minutes of opportunity to take an attitude. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u197	The last thing I would like to say to Mrs. Atanasova in particular.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u198	It's not gonna work out like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u199	Check your numbers before you speak. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u200	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. For the procedure they want Mr. Ivanov, Desislava Atanasova, Mr. Bikov, Zhecho Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u201	It's about attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u202	For consideration there will be, yes, the size of the groups. Before that, are there any people who want to do the procedure? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister Vassilev because Kiril Petkov is no longer Prime Minister. [[Radio and applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u204	Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u205	Obviously for the entire hall and for the Bulgarian citizens the real prime minister is Asen Vassilev, who disproves the opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u206	The procedure for me, Mrs. Atanasova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u207	Perhaps you should have made a note to Mr. Petkov that some of the data referred to his claims and he should have answered me, not the real Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u208	Mrs. Atanasova, with respect to the representatives of the Council of Ministers and to everyone in the Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u209	With great respect to Mr. Asen Vassilev, I approach him personally, as he addressed me personally as I spoke to him, so I named his name, but I was not wrong. It was supposed to be directed at most of the declaration. Mr. Vassilev, is it a fact that gross domestic product amounted to 132 billion when...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u210	Is this a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u211	The procedure for me, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u212	...was May 12, 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u213	Relationships in a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u214	Fact! Is it a fact that the fiscal reserve after the model was 8 billion 824 million? Fact! Is it a fact that Bulgaria entered the Eurozone waiting room with a 3% deficit? Fact! Is it a fact that there was a recovery and sustainability plan and agreed, and paid operational programs. Now there's zero agreed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u215	Mrs. Atanasova, please, for a procedure for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u216	Is it a fact that there were 3 billion foreign direct investments? Fact!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u217	Mrs. Atanasova, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u218	Don't talk about roads or highways at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u219	I'll take your word for it, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u220	While the majority takes unconstitutional decisions and condemns the entire...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u221	Mrs. Atanasova, I'll take your word for it. [[(Noise, lines, and shouts:) From GERB-SDS. The chairman's shutting down the microphones. Details between the President and the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova.)]] Let me finish, Mrs. Atanasova. I gave Mrs. Atanasova the floor. [[People from GERB-SDS are coming to the stands.]] Colleagues, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u222	You can't take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u223	Yes, because it's against regulations, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u224	It's not against the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u225	The rules give us an opportunity. I have given Mr. Vassilev the opportunity to address a matter on which he finds it appropriate to speak on these subjects. Parliamentary groups will have the opportunity to take action. I let Mrs. Atanasova speak for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u226	It's not against the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u227	Yes, you do. Mrs. Atanasova, please take your seat. You'll be able to take treatment in a moment. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Mrs. Atanasova, please. Please, colleagues, let's continue this meeting. I'm gonna give everyone a chance for a procedure. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Colleagues, it's not gonna happen this way with threats and threats. There are rules, and they have to be followed. I told you, there'll be an opportunity for treatment in a moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u228	You don't follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u229	Mr. Terziysky!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u230	Yes, I'm listening, Mr. Chairman. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u231	Colleagues, I'm taking the 12:00 off to calm down all the MPs. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u232	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u233	Thank you. Dear Mr. Ivanov, my procedure is in the manner in which you are being led with absolutely no reason at all, without any reason you once again took the floor of an opposition representative. The last time you did, Mr. Ivanov, one of my colleagues, was punished for giving you a valerian tablet. Now you may have, Mr. Chairman, need not only that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u234	And from what, Mrs. Atanasova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u235	...and release the parliamentary tribune because it is necessary for someone with a higher degree of hearing and tolerance to the opposition to take the place first among equals. If Mr. Minchev has some institutional commitment, then the National Assembly has five other Vice-Presidents. Even when we chose them, there was no room for everyone, if you remember. In this sense, I call on you to give up the chair, for example, to Mr. Atanas Atanasov, who is Vice-President of the Parliament, who is in the Chamber at the moment, and I believe that he will better lead the plenary session not only because he knows that the opposition's word is never taken away, but also because he has proved in all the years of his participation in politics that he can hear what the opposition is saying. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u236	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u237	Mr. Chairman, I urge you to clear the place to the top of the flats so that this place can be taken...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u238	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u239	...by someone who can control not only the House, but also their own nerves and plenary to continue... Mr. Chairman, I would like to inform you that our parliamentary group is entering and will seek the rest for talks about your resignation. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u240	Thank you for the procedure, Mrs. Atanasova. I see no reason to resign as Deputy Minister. [[Laughter and raging]] , the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Great, you can make fun of all you want, none of you are insured by lapsus, colleagues. I see no reason to resign as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Why? Because I'm applying the same arsin to everyone. [[Voices from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] Ask Mr. Nastimir Ananiev how many times I didn't give him the floor for a personal explanation when he asked for it. Ask Mr. Mitev how many times I've taken his word for it, so I've shown the same arsin.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u241	They're not opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u242	Your argument is to resign because I'm not tolerant of the opposition. Which one of the opposition? That I'm following the rules, that I'm following the rules?! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] With all due respect, my intolerance to breaking the rules will continue, and you, if you want, start a dialogue with whomever and as you see fit. I follow the text of the Law. That's how it is and that's how it's gonna be! And in particular today, Mrs. Atanasova, I gave you three minutes more for a statement, I gave you two minutes almost to speak in a statement procedure on the substance. That's five minutes! For the honourable viewers and listeners, Bulgarian citizens, five minutes of plenary time is an extremely long time. You are well aware of this and yet you complain that I am violating the rights of the opposition. That's my answer: I'm not resigning because I don't think there's any reason for that. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] For procedure Miroslava Petrova, then sandar Ivanov, Emil Georgiev, Iskren Mitev and Radomir Cholakov, let's say in this sequence.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u243	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Dear Mr Co-chairman, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. I would like to ask you to always, with this conviction, to lead the meetings, also to ask you never to interrupt the opposition when we are being offered an actress, screaming, screaming, make-up; I ask you not to interrupt it whenever it offers us its propaganda from here, never interrupt it when it offers us actuarial etudes; and I also ask you not to interrupt it literally on any occasion, so that it can, in full clarity and fullness, the mentality of the Bulgarian opposition at the moment, shine with the greatest quality. I ask you to interrupt them only when they start breaking the furniture, so that after them something remains healthy. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Emil Georgiev from BSP also for a procedure, then I will give the floor to you, Mr. Ivanov. Do you give up a statement, Professor Chakarov? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u245	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! I appeal with an insistent request to all of you: let us cool our passions. Today we need to get an answer to current questions that concern people. For example, I look forward to Mr. Sandov's response... [[Heckling]] Deputy Prime Minister Sandov, I said he's not here yet. I was looking forward to him coming to discover about a huge ecological crime, which has been committed for 10 years in the poorest municipality of Bulgaria. I therefore appeal to you: let us have the opportunity to listen to the ministers' response. What happened just now, thank God we didn't fall for each other's throats is shameful, very embarrassing! This is my request to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u246	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u247	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner in which you are directed. Unfortunately, you missed the meeting at the moment when you gave the opposition's declaration an answer, although the members of the Council of Ministers have the right to participate in the debate at any time and to ask for the floor. But following the letter of the Rules, Mr. President, you had to interrupt Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev when he started to respond by name several times in the context of the declaration of the Political Party GERB. There's nothing wrong with him giving his own answers. I am pleased that some of the time you interrupted Mrs. Atanasova, she was able to address Mr. Vassilev with the exact data of Bulgaria's financial situation a year ago. To the specific data at the moment Mr. Vassilev did not turn much, so I think we did not get any adequate response from him what had changed positively. But, Mr President, I will take this opportunity to call on you not to interrupt the president of the largest opposition party, because this violates not only the good tone of parliament, it violates the long-standing practice of the National Assembly to give voice to the opposition when it naturally has criticism of governance, in this case justified. I'll allow myself to read you a statement from this morning, and I'm glad Mr. Vassilev is here to hear it. The big poverty has already come. The economy is bled out when you debone it, then people follow it....................... and this quote, Mr President, is not of any opposition, it is not of someone who can be accused of bias against the opposition but is a statement by the Vice-President of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce. So it is nice for the members of the Council of Ministers to hear both the business and their citizens, not just the opposition. And it is that it is impossible for the current government to deal with the crises and to meet the needs of the Bulgarian business and citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u248	The weather, Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u249	Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u250	Let me take 10 seconds of attitude and I to your procedure. As I have already pointed out, I have given Mrs. Atanasova five minutes of plenary time so that she can state the position of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. Regarding whether we should hear the government on important issues, well, colleagues, today we are on a day when we have blitz and parliamentary control. Half this time is eaten by procedures and these procedures are by the opposition. So let the citizens make an assessment of why it comes to this situation. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] Mr. Mitev for a statement. Docent Chakarov, you're giving up a statement by the Department of Rights and Freedoms? [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Okay, Mr. Mitev, the declaration will be as soon as the parliamentary groups are concerned with the Deputy Prime Minister's statements. Are there any other procedures before you take the attitude? Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u251	Mr. Chairman! The procedure in the manner of conduct is for you. You are aware that you are not the President of the National Assembly? You're just temporarily occupying this chair right now because the chairman obviously has another job. You like to change chairs and accept functions, as Mr. Asen Vassilev likes to sit in this first chair and act as prime minister, which it may actually be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u252	What's the procedure? Let's hear it, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u253	Now I'm telling you the procedure. One mistake leads to another mistake, and I've told you that before from this tribune. You made a mistake that you gave Prime Minister Vassilev the right to take part in a political declaration of GERB-SDZ, and from there you could no longer control the Chamber. Since you don't have the procedure, you can't control the room and really think about whether it's worth sitting in this place, because the mass riots they said were happening in parliament, you're challenging them. And I think that happens to you a few times. So, determine your functions, find out who is doing what in your ruling majority or Mr. Minchev to sit in his chair and Mr. Vasilev to sit in the first chair as he likes to sit down and you to sit on the sidelines, or I don't see this National Assembly and this government. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u254	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. I just want to remind you that with your voices, I stand on this stand. To express the attitude by.. We continue the Change......................................... There aren't any. From GERB-SDS? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You interrupted me a while ago, so I'll keep going from there. On today a year ago, honourable gentlemen, no matter who is temporarily acting Prime Minister Vasilev or Petkov, I repeat again that the rehabilitated roads after the model Borisov and after the status quo GERB were 3000 km; built 2600 km water network; 51 treatment stations; 1600 renovated schools; 800 renovated kindergartens and nurseries. The price of electricity was BGN 117, today is BGN 500. for business. The price of gas was BGN 37,70, today is BGN 143. and we do not know what will be for the months of May and June, we do not know what it will be and by the end of the year, who will deliver the gas, who has reserved the capacity and how it will happen even after the formal blitzcontrol of Mr. Petkov. I repeat that then, a year ago, the lowest levels of domestic crime were recorded, the lowest migratory pressure, at least victims of road accidents. Do you know what is now along the borders of Bulgaria? You should probably know if you're reading reports. The bread, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago on this day was BGN 1, and now it is BGN 2.50. The gas and diesel were on levels of BGN 2, do you know how much it is now? Over £3.25. are the fuels and this is not the fault of the youth GERB apropo, Mr. Vassilev! My fellow Members, my attitude towards your government is clear, your majority is also clear, but this is disproportionate and in line with the attitude of Bulgarian citizens. Just leave! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you are, Professor Chobanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! My attitude towards this speech will first begin with a mistake that I believe began by the Budget Committee, which, if it is not corrected, can become an untruthful lie, and if it happens again 100 times, it will still not be true. It's about the exported debt numbers. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, then, when you made this bill whether it or not, you said: Not that it matters much, as this is a momentary state and absolutely nothing shows. We'll see how much it's gonna be at the end of the year, but if we want to be factually correct, I think you should pay attention to that, too. With regard to debt, we can talk a lot, we can also have a special discussion about where we are moving, how we are moving, towards higher interest rates, about expanding spreads with German government securities, about increasing the risk characteristics of debt, reducing maturity and concentration of debt in the next few years, but this is a matter of another discussion. With regard to pensions, I do not see how this National Assembly has raised pensions so far, frankly. I think the forty-sixth National Assembly has done far more work in this regard, including with the proposal then of the DPS adopted for 120 BGN. supplements for pensioners, which really set a more social basis for pensions, although there is more to be desired there too. And with regard to pensions here in my mind, my father's personal case comes up, which due to the postal situation at the moment is not going to be able to get his pension, but I will also not be dealing with the National Assembly. With regard to other numbers, with regard to exports, yes, it is high, but imports are even higher. The trade balance is at a deficit of 3.3 billion and this should draw some attention to these risks. In addition, consumer confidence has been at its bottom for the past 20 years, both the assessment of the last year's economic situation and the expectations of people and the economic situation, and the financial situation in the future. "The prices of a producer are 46% higher and my colleague Ibramov in his question will further develop this. The average wage decreased by 1.2% compared to the last quarter, which is also a fact that deserves some attention. So neither a year ago nor now the economic situation is colorful. We need to pay attention, we need to take into account the risks and, most importantly, then and now, there is one major problem that the measures are not taken in time and do not reach the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u258	Thank you, Professor Chobanov. Will the BSP be relevant? I won't. There is such a people? I won't. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, will anyone express their attitude? I won't. From rebirth? Mrs. Mihailova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The statement is in the spirit of the statements throughout the day and since we did not have the opportunity to express our views on the blitz control because of the delay of the Prime Minister and the given rest, I have to say that what we are seeing here again today in this Chamber, shown by the ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, is an absolute disregard for all the problems that the Bulgarian society currently has. We have commented on concrete essential things to resolve and have received no concrete answer from this tribune. And not only have we not received an answer, but we have not received a remark from the Presidents of the National Assembly that this is happening. Of course, they are of the same formation, whatever it is, it is normal to watch their backs, only who at this moment has the back of the Bulgarian citizens is the question. Yesterday we were talking about the surprises and problems we had with the gas, and in just a few weeks or a month we will be talking about the surprises that we are trying by the opposition to raise the oil crisis. Not one specific answer. I think there may be something positive in all of what happened today that you are simply confirming the opinion that Bulgarian citizens very quickly built for this government. I will refrain from qualifying him out of respect for the institution, not the government. Gentlemen, you have very little time left in this position. This is an absolute fact and this will show it to you and show it every day the Bulgarian people. You hear it, you see it, you show it the way you move, the requests are already over, which were walking among the people. On the contrary, we see how you open the doors and how many people protect you, only what you will bequeath to the next will be something terrible, something that we will find the strength to deal with despite your efforts to sabotage us. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Only one clarification I make is that in the blitzcontrol under art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure it does not end with regard to the answers given. For a statement from.. We continue Change.....................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u261	Mrs. Mihailova, you forgot your card tomorrow, trying to get arrested again, waving it to the police. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u262	Mr. Mitev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u263	Sorry, that was my card, I apologize. We heard: "By the fruits you will know them.." See what GERB did and what they left behind, see what they are doing and now, what they are sowing and what they want to achieve. March 18 is very much like today. This is the day when I first witnessed the MPs trying to fight in the Chamber, today I saw it for the second time. The same representatives from GERB. What can we expect from these people's fruits? The cereals are 3 thousand holes of Borisov, ladybugs installed in the entire structure of the state, trying in every way to stop any reform that we are trying to make. The prosecution, which so carefully protects its masters, the rotten fruits are the beatings on protesters citizens under the pillars of the Council of Ministers in 2020, the stealing and seizure of businesses, the corrupt swamp, the outrageous stealing of the state. When we said outrageous stealing, do you remember the loans the Bulgarian Development Bank gave 1 billion to 8 private customers? This is why current Prime Minister Kiril Petkov alarmed as Minister of Economy Guess what happened already has a problem with one of these 8, one of the biggest loans. We hear this is one of the company's animal nicknames. We hear the economy going through, but I see growth in the index of industrial production, growth in exports, the highest value in history at all. We hear there's no gas, there's gas. We heard Borisov's call to give away dogs and pay in rubles, while the EC calls for unity and solidarity towards Bulgaria and Poland. We've heard that the price of gas will be higher than what we've seen before, and it'll be lower. We have heard that the Recovery and Sustainability Plan will not be adopted. Maybe you won't believe it's another lie, but Ursula von der Lyon said, "Excellent!" We hear that we have not helped businesses and citizens, and the truth is that we have given billions so that inflation is not so high, through aid for electricity for business, which affects competitiveness and extreme prices. Now we're going to put out more measures for at least a billion and a half, and at the same time they're telling us there's no money in the treasury. Despite all the costs and compensations, unprecedented in the history of the Bulgarian state, money simply exists because it is not stolen. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Why don't you try to diversify and stop lying, stop planting disinformation, and especially when there's a war going on close to you that's hard on the whole world, hold your breath. What have we done? 4 billion business compensations for electricity prices, which represents 3% of GDP, the highest value in the European Union, and maintaining consumer prices at July 2021 levels; 2 billion less external debt since December; 880 million budget surplus in the first quarter for increased social payments and record capital investments. [[Laughter and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Negotiation of supplies of natural gas from alternative sources at prices lower than those of Gszprom, without intermediaries, in achieving real diversification and energy independence; preservation of inflation levels below the EU average; nearly 20% increase in the index of industrial production on an annual basis; advance increase in pensions and minimum wage against inflation; increase in average salary in business; free kindergartens; increase in unemployment benefits and raising a child up to two years of age; reduction of tax burden; approval of PWI and at the beginning of next week a new package of anti-crisis measures for businesses and consumers. These are our fruit. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u264	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Colleagues, let's move on to parliamentary control. The first questions will be to Prime Minister Kiril Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u265	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u266	Here you are, Mr. Bikov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u267	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, honourable colleagues! In a manner of keeping from the point of view that we are extremely worried about the country by what we have just heard from Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, from what we have heard from colleague Mitev. We remain with the feeling that the ruling majority is in a situation of total disorientation and inability to see the problems facing the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u268	To me, Mr. Bikov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u269	To you, I would urge you to awaken some of their colleagues from their pink sleep and introduce them into the reality that is quite severe. When a majority cannot name the problems, understand that there are any problems, it becomes dangerous not only for political life, but at all for public life in the country. What we're seeing...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u270	Mr. Bikov, you're making a point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u271	...here, it's really dangerous, and I call on colleagues from the other parties from the ruling majority to take action, because you very well understand what is happening and how difficult the situation is. Make this dream come to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u272	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Colleagues, let's move on to parliamentary control now. The first question is from the MP Jayhan Ibryamov and is about the measures of the government in terms of inflation and the sharp rise in prices of basic goods, food and services. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov, to ask your question. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u273	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. and Mr. Deputy Prime Ministers! My question relates to the government's measures in terms of inflation and the sharp rise in prices of basic goods, food and services. Over the past year, and most of all in recent months, weeks and days, we have witnessed unprecedented inflation over the past 14 years. In March inflation reached 12.4% year-on-year, according to data from the National Statistical Institute. The main reason for the more expensive fuels, gas, transport and food is due to this inflation. The most tangible is the appreciation in the area of transport, where prices are nearly 26% higher than last year. More than 43% have grown year-on-year on fuel prices for cars, again they stand in the appreciation of utility services of nearly 14%. Over double the increase of the gas is 117% and more than 30% higher are solid fuels. Food inflation has also increased and reached 17.5% compared to March 2021. Specifically, the food has the highest rise in oil, which only increases compared to February by 23%. And in a month, flour and potatoes rose by nearly 6%. The egg growth rate is 8.3%. National statistics also account for an appreciation of all other product and service groups, with small exceptions. The prices of basic goods and services in our country are no longer strong for most households. We have witnessed the shock of people's fears because of the uncontrollable appreciation of goods and services. Due to the lack of adequate measures on your part, we are already about to fall into the spiral of indexing prices and wages, which can hardly be interrupted, and instead of transitional inflation, we are in deep inflation, as leading economists warn us. We continue to face a crisis of many unknowns. The Bulgarian people will suffer from it because Bulgaria is still the poorest country in the European Union. The gas, gasoline, electricity, water, bread, oil and so on are the main goods and foods that have increased and that affect the pricing of everyone else. The prospects are, of course, further aggravated by the conflict in Ukraine and the economic consequences of it. This will also lead to higher than the average annual inflation of 5.6% in the country's budget, according to the Deputy Prime Minister himself. In this regard, my question to you, Mr. Prime Minister, is: what is the Bulgarian government planning to stop and reduce inflation, does the Bulgarian government have a crisis plan and when will it take effect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u274	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u275	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yeah, there's inflation. This inflation has been charged through energy prices across Europe and we all know it, and you all know it. Mr. Borisov constantly talks about the prices before and now. And he knows very well that nothing can do at world exchanges or stop the war in Ukraine, but you are practicing at a political PR from morning to night, which does not honor you, because in fact at this moment we should be united, not throwing silly pianos at each other. [[Laughter and lines from GERB-SDS. Claps by "Keep On Changing."]] Now let me answer the direct question. The first thing we did is, as we all already know, we put 4.1 billion in. BGN to limit the growth of electricity prices. What does that mean to tell you in numbers? October last year the price for the household user is BGN 147. and 70 C.E. The same price is in November, December, January, February, March, April, May. One of the few countries in Europe where domestic consumer prices did not rise by either 1%. Let's see the terrible prices that have gone up for business: October Our government is coming: January, month 232, fall, February, month 231, March, and April - 224. This is the result of these 4 billion. So when we talk about electricity prices, let's talk in exact numbers. Separately, we know very well that inflation affects the poorest part of our population, and that is why we did our focus right there. The minimum wage was raised from 650 to 710 BGN. Children's allowances went up for one child 20%, for two children 22%, for three children 22%. The compensation for unemployment rose from 12 BGN. 18 leva. Dropping fees for kindergartens and cribs. We gave 70 leva. of the pensioners. Previously on Supplements 60 BGN. they will most likely remain permanently in the amount of pensions. Natural gas, as much as you don't like to say, will see that for June it will be at a lower price when the ships enter. In June, it will enter at a lower price than in April. At the same time, we release the excise duty of natural gas. As you know, many of our fellow citizens, who have lower incomes, drive right to natural gas. Increase the threshold of mandatory VAT registration from 50 thousand to 100 thousand. BGN so that we remove some of the weights of the small business. Yeah, it's hard, it's not easy for anyone. But I understand why Mr. Borisov says why it is not yet time for elections. Because you couldn't have done it. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u276	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Mr. Ibryamov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u277	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Prime Minister, I am Jayhan Ibryamov, I am not Boyko Borisov, Bulgarian MP, Bulgarian citizen, ethnic Turk, and I expected you to address me, not the political party GERB. Prime Minister, you must be willing not to answer. I want a clear, precise and concrete answer to my question. If not, you don't want to be the prime minister of this country. I'm fixing your business says you've compensated them by 1.5 billion, and you're claiming 4.1 billion. Where are the other 2.6? There's a difference! Mr. Prime Minister, you claim to be an economist and have graduated from Harvard in your own words. At Harvard there are great professors economists who have saved even from starving Africa, but apparently you have not attended their lectures. Prime Minister, you have created a coalition with a collection of political parties. And in this assembly of political parties, one makes right-wing measures and gets left-wing policies, the other makes left-wing measures and gets right-wing policies, and the third and fourth don't know what they're for in this coalition. But since you've been in management, you've been relying on your coalition management program, doing analysis, analysis, and nothing concrete. All the measures you propose are counterproductive. Absolutely counterproductive! And this is said not only by the MPs in this National Assembly, all leading analysts, all leading business circles, and now the people rising up. Prime Minister, with the speed in which you went and returned from Washington, we are all Bulgarian citizens, as well as the business expects with this speed and speed to introduce these necessary measures and compensation. Not just for compensation, but for those programmes and amendments to laws that could totally compensate for the widespread and rising inflation and the high prices of all the goods in this country. If your economic team is unable to do this work, there are certainly in Bulgaria who have graduated both in Svishtov and in the UNWE and can do this work. Prime Minister, an oil fire doesn't go out with a gardening canister, it's getting stronger. My specific question to you is: if you enter a Bulgarian family, do you know what it smells like right now? Smells like poverty. Why did hunger come to Bulgaria under your rule? I expect a clear and precise answer. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u278	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Do you have a hole, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u279	Thanks for asking. Now I'm going to address you directly. Why does it smell like poverty? If in a Bulgarian family, which is for example in Northwestern Bulgaria. Let's address one such family... [[Reply from DPS: "And Northeast. "]] And Northeast. Why? Because right now, years after the start of the construction of the highway, Hemus is gone. Because at the moment millions, billions have been prepaid to some companies where, I suppose, you also know some of the participants in them, have taken these deposits, but there is neither construction nor construction started, nor even a construction permit, but there are 10 million purchased flowers and landscape investments for something that does not yet exist. Because in these years, there are not three bridges over the Danube right now. There are 400 km between the two bridges and these families are currently like an island in Northern Bulgaria. Because also from some of your companies, perhaps known to you, have built 630 million dams where only 10 dams have been completed without building permission. Why? Because perhaps the corruption, which, I think, you also know, ate the incomes of the Bulgarians during these years. And now that we have to fight corruption schemes at the same time, with the clean-up of the bats, we also have to deal with the crisis that is coming from outside, we are doing everything we can. We know it's difficult for the poorest population, but believe me, it's a good thing we've managed to keep the current prices up right now. It's a good thing we've managed to give income to the people who have the most difficulties. It is good that in the last 120 days we have worked 18 hours a day so that these people have the opportunity to make ends meet and have 70 leva. additional payments for Easter. It is a good thing that we succeeded in three days after the supplier "Gszprom" stopped the gas unilaterally, to find an alternative with lower prices. It's a good thing we were able to make a quick deal with our partners, and we'll probably have gas, Azeri gas, in July. All this good that we did it. I don't know what the course is in Svishtov that I missed, but I'm sure the things we did were the right things in the unprecedented global crisis that we've found ourselves in. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u280	Thank you, Prime Minister. Second question to the Prime Minister of the National Representative Slavena Dimitrova Tocheva on the policy of the government regarding the crew of the ship Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u281	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u282	You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u283	Thank you. Mr. Petkov, I would like to know from you what is the government's policy on the evacuation of the remaining sailors present on the ship now? My concerns are caused by the fact that after the last operation you performed, a PR operation was rather blocked 49 days on the ship, they were the only unevacuated crew and then left the ship alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Tocheva. Mr. Petkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u285	Thanks for asking. As you know, our government has made a personal commitment to contact the crew of this ship at least every three days while all the sailors were there. There were three windows that opened for their evacuation, but we all judged that the danger was too great for those 260 meters that they had to pass in danger of their lives. When the opportunity opened at the first moment, these sailors were able to be transported coordinated to a destination where the Bulgarian government sent its plane and picked them up. For the rest of the crew, they are waiting to see if and when the ship itself will be able to be moved from the port to Bulgaria. At the moment, they have the choice to leave the ship. They're not hostages on the ship. They're even getting food from the people at the marina right now. [[Laughter]] So there's no problem, and at any moment when they decide, they can be evacuated, but at this point they prefer to stand, because the ship, as you know, if the captain leaves the ship, anyone can take it. So right now it's their choice, there's no danger to life, there's no danger of being without food and water, and we're watching the situation carefully. On the other hand, the other ship in Chernomoresk, we are also in constant communication and I very much hope that the entire ship will soon be able to be released from port, but there, as you know, is a mine removal operation. A blue corridor for the ship to exit when the opportunity opens. There is no danger to people's lives at this time, nor are they at risk of shortage of supplies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u286	Thank you, Prime Minister. For a line, Mrs. Tocheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u287	Mr. Petkov, can you tell us which Bulgarian service coordinated the evacuation of the sailors? Because I assure you that I have met with the evacuated sailors, talked to them, and they have negotiated the terms of their transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u288	Here you are, Prime Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u289	During the entire period we've been waiting, the entire operation has been coordinated by Military Intelligence. If you want to have details, you can always call General Venev to give you more details, but you will probably need to be in a closed session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u290	Thank you, Prime Minister. The questions to Mr. Kiril Petkov have run out. The following questions are addressed to Mr. Asen Vassilev, Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance. Again a question from the MP Slavena Dimitrova Tocheva and again in connection with the rescue operation of the sailors of the ship. I guess with another aspect of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u291	Yeah, with a financial aspect. Mr. Vassilev, I would like to know what is the sum spent on the rescue operation of the Bulgarian sailors from the ship Tsarevna, who, on two occasions, reminded again, was unsuccessful, and on the third time they overtaken its implementation and left the ship alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u292	Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u293	Thanks for asking. It's $25,000.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u294	Do you have a line, Mrs. Tocheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u295	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. What's that $25,000 worth of money spent on? Does this include their transportation and is it true that Ms. Lena Borislavova welcomed them? As what? And is this the amount for the cost of her trip to Sochi? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Tocheva. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u297	I have no idea who greeted who. The amount is for the State Air Operator. The same is on the budget of the Council of Ministers. This is the plane that went to pick up the sailors and bring them to Bulgaria. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u298	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The second question to Mr. Asen Vassilev is from the MP Rumen Hristov about the possibility to compensate Bulgarian citizens whose companies are being punished, confiscated or damaged in the context of the war against Ukraine led by the Russian Federation. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u299	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, after the beginning of the full-scale war by Putinova Russia against sovereign Ukraine, the reaction of the democratic world was clear. The Russian Federation was declared an aggressor, and after repeated calls from the international community led by the UN to withdraw Russian troops from Ukraine, a package of sanctions was imposed. Bulgaria as a member of NATO, the European Union and the world democratic community supported these sanctions. For its part, the Russian Federation declared the countries supporting the sanctions imposed, including Bulgaria, to be hostile. In addition, the Putin administration, in the face of the President of the Lower House of the Russian Parliament Volodin, said that regarding companies, I quote: "Based on Russian territory and owned by citizens of enemy countries", as Bulgaria appears to the Russian Federation, measures will be taken to confiscate these assets...................................................................... Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, given all this, please answer me: whether you think it is appropriate for Bulgaria to respond with reciprocal measures, namely to compensate the Bulgarian citizens whose companies, real estate and shares located in the territory of the Russian Federation are limited in their activities, confiscated or damaged and destroyed by the Russian army in Ukraine, with shares of Russian company Lukoil Neftohim Burgas. The state buys the rest of the shares, possibly of Lukoil Neftohim Burgas. After their market assessment, they can be offered again for privatisation of the world companies with good reputation in the industry. I would like to remind you that the Bulgarian state still holds the so-called golden share in Lukoil Neftohim. In case you take such action, I mean the government, you would guarantee a fair compensation to the victims of the aggressor Russia war in Ukraine, you would guarantee Bulgaria's energy independence in terms of oil supplies, its processing and distribution of processed products and you would finally be able to expect Perhaps Neftohim Burgas. Thank you, I hope for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u300	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Minister Vassilev, your answers are short and laconic. I remind you that you still have the opportunity to develop your answer within three minutes at your discretion, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u301	Thank you. I prefer not to waste the time of the MPs and to answer to the point. Mr. Hristov, about your question. At present, the European Union has approved a temporary framework allowing governments to assist companies that have suffered from the war between Russia and Ukraine. This temporary framework gives us the following powers: aid of limited size up to 400 thousand. EUR per company or up to 35 thousand. EUR for enterprises in the agricultural sector and the fisheries and aquaculture sectors; support for liquidity in the form of loan guarantees; support for liquidity in the form of subsidised loans; aid for proven additional costs due to the extremely high increase in natural gas and electricity prices. If we decide to use any of these four measures, we make a notification to the European Union and we can use them accordingly. So far, in Bulgaria, as you know, the fourth measure is certainly in place, which is for aid for gas and electricity. The other three measures have not been activated, and there are no companies that have asked us to do this. Specifically, what you are proposing is related to expropriating the shares of Lukoil Neftohim. There are talks at European Commission level about freezing expropriation of shares of Russian companies. There is still no decision by the European Commission on expropriating shares of Russian companies. As soon as such a decision is taken, and if it is taken, your measure constitutes an interest which, of course, needs to be considered. At the moment it is not applicable because it would bring Bulgaria into a huge international case because we will expropriate the shares of a private company that is not on a ban list. The company is actually Swiss property, not Russian property. We are in constant contact with colleagues from Poland, Italy, the Netherlands and Romania, especially Italy, the Netherlands and Romania, because there are refineries of With them the situation is quite similar, there is no expropriation, so the plan that you are referring to cannot be implemented. But if for companies that have suffered directly from the war, as we said, we are currently working on opening up potentially credit lines that are either with guarantees or with subsidised interest. As far as direct aid is concerned, they have not been activated at the moment, but we do not have such requests from companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u302	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The idea was not for expropriation, but for an equal replacement of what will be confiscated, as stated in Russia, and for enterprises that have already been destroyed. They have some value and it is a setback, if I may say so, but let us follow the rules that the European Union is submitting to Bulgaria. Perhaps these measures, which you reported and the fourth one, are nice to clarify a little more, because there are indeed our companies and companies working in Russia and having difficulties in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u304	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Would you like the word for the doppelganger, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? No. We are moving on to the next issue from the MP Tsoncho Ganev on the forthcoming update of the state budget. You have the floor, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u305	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, in connection with the sanctions imposed on the Russian Federation, in which Bulgaria joined, our country is already facing a gas crisis and it is a fact, dealing with which will likely lead to an increase in the price of gas, which is absolutely also a fact. Resurrection warned of this even then that the sanctions that we support as a state will have consequences for the Bulgarian economy. In your interview on one of the private national television stations, you stated that fuel prices would not be increased. Since fuel prices already exceed three leva, contrary to your claim, I would like you to answer the following question: do you foresee in the forthcoming budget update the oil supply crisis and what measures will you take to prevent it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u306	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u307	Mr. Ganev, thank you for asking. As far as natural gas supplies are concerned, perhaps you were outside the hall, the prime minister said that there are supplies and that they are at a lower price than they were in April. So there's no price increase. Your question is related, let's say, to the government's strategic plans to address serious risks to the economy. That's the kind of plan he's got. That's what the plan was for the gas. This is the reason, although from today on, we were stopped from gas, there would be no interruption of supply, nor would this dramatic price increase, which would have happened if we had gone directly to the stock exchange. There's a plan for oil as well. As you know, Bulgaria has declared its position and is defending it that it wants an exception from the oil sanctions. A derogation that will allow, like other countries working with Russian oil, to have a transition period of one or two years so that we can make this transition smoother, it is not risky for the economy. We have plans on different occasions. For example, in the Black Sea at the moment, as you know, active action is being carried out. A ship was shot and sank a Russian warship, there are mines. Mines were found in the Bosporus and it was closed for a few hours. At the moment, there is a plan what would happen if Russian oil stopped today for tomorrow, as the gas stopped, what would happen if, in combination with this, the Bosporus was closed, for one reason or another, for shipping, which would cut us off from access to non-Russian oil, what are the reserves we have, how long the economy can endure in such a regime and what would lead to prices. In this most, darkest scenario, where Russian oil supplies are stopped and Bosporus is closed, we have the opportunity for six months to support the Bulgarian economy and Bulgarian consumption in which to find alternative ways to deliver oil. Six months can last when the Bosporus shuts down and Russian oil stops. This is the blackest scenario we can imagine, because this means that there is no way for a ship to enter the Rosenets port, which is the main oil port in the country. There are buffers in the budget that can be used to react quickly in such a scenario. We hope it doesn't come to that. The Bulgarian national interest, as I have repeatedly stated, is for us to obtain the derogation from the oil sanctions, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to gradually diversify oil suppliers. The other thing started as a process with Greek and Romanian colleagues, as you know, is to make highways, railways and oil pipelines Alexandroupolis These are projects that have existed quite a long time ago, have already been activated and I hope that their implementation will begin as soon as possible, so that even in this darkest scenario we do not have any risk of interruptions in a long period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u308	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. You have the floor for two supplementary questions, Mr. Ganev, in the context of the questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u309	Mr. Vassilev, in the spirit of this whole day, when many of the things were not answered specifically, were just general talks, I will only highlight two things. In terms of gas. We are currently receiving supplies and you are providing the government I mean, not personally, you are providing consumption at the moment. Every year, however, Chiren is starting to swell from the beginning of April, now it is the middle of May, Chiren is at the sanitary minimum and soon will not start to inject, which will automatically, even today, even if you start to inject gas, means that autumn we will have a crisis, because the repository is key to ensuring peak consumption. This is about what you have as a solution to the gas crisis. As far as the other one is concerned, I have not heard any concrete measure, except what you have pointed out, pipelines will eventually be built and supplies of oil from other countries with tankers. We accept that it may be stopped today by the Russians, regardless of their derogation, or, more precisely, an exception to the European Union whether they will do it or not. When Russian oil supplies type Urals were stopped, only two or three days ago, the chairman of the board of directors of Lukoil gave a spacious interview, in which the main question was how and what the refinery itself could do technologically to process oil. From six months to one year it takes to rework the entire technology and start working with a completely different type of oil, which automatically means that if they shut down Russian oil supplies, whether they agree to an exception from the European Union or the Russian Federation imposes counter-sanctions against enemy countries, part of which we are, it means that we are facing a total collapse and we will wait for... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. We will only wait for what you said, the state reserve and possibly the Russian Federation to remove the restrictions on us, or the European Union to agree to some exception. That is why I ask again: concrete measures........ beyond what you have pointed out that we will have a state reserve that will give us a few months of existence?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u310	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. You have the floor to answer the supplementary questions, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u311	Maybe for a response to the supplementary misinformation. Chiren has been filling since the beginning of May. You can see Chiren's levels rising. Chiren at the beginning of this winter, unfortunately, was filled, I think less than 100% of 85 or 90%, if I am not mistaken, but anyway Chiren will be full before next winter, at least these are the assurances of the Ministry of Energy. At the moment, I said again, Chiren is filling up. As for oil and Lukoil's ability to work with non-Russian oil, we have discussed this with the refinery. They can pass to work entirely on non-Russian oil today. The problem with this is ecological. The problem with this is that they do not have enough new installations to clean up, there are not enough new plants to guarantee 100% the environmental security of the plant. Tomorrow, if it stops, that's the scenario we've played out if from today on tomorrow we get a letter, as we received for the gas, and Russia says: "We won't give you oil" again, in this scenario we these six months that you talk about resetting the refinery, we have them because our stocks are Russian oil mainly, not Brent, who can mix with non-Russian oil without making environmental problems. This gives us these six months to be able to run a program and go all the way to non-Russian oil. That is why I told you that the scenario Russia to stop us from oil today for tomorrow for Bulgaria is not worrying. It is only disturbing in combination with a scenario that we cannot import non-Russian oil due to restrictions in shipping, mostly related to the Bosporus.. they elsewhere have nowhere else to happen, or, God forbid, a great war in the Black Sea, so that the ships cannot reach Rosenets. Then we have a problem, yes, because no ship, neither Russian nor non-Russian, can reach the refinery. This problem of no ship being able to reach the refinery port can be solved in a single way, and it is with the possibility that we get oil at another point and it gets to the refinery not by ship, which is a pipeline. The fact that for years this has not been built as a diversion strategy cannot be decided in one month or in two months to, you are right. This is a project that will take at least a year, maybe two, but it is a longer-term sustainable way. In addition, we spoke with the refinery, as I said, when the war broke out, we played out all the military scenarios, including the interruption of supplies from today to tomorrow, there was uncertainty about what the Russian Federation would do. This uncertainty continues to exist, unfortunately, as you say, regardless of what Europe is doing. And even in the worst case scenario, which is starting today for tomorrow's oil closure, we have the opportunity to make the transition without a problem. So there's no need to panic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u312	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. You have the floor to express your attitude if you wish, Mr. Ganev. No, okay. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Nikolay Drenchev on the estimates of the expenditure needed in connection with the mandate given by the National Assembly of the Council of Ministers to implement a package of measures related to the war in Ukraine. You have the floor, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u313	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you know, on 4 May last week the National Assembly here in this Chamber voted with great enthusiasm to give a mandate to the Council of Ministers to implement a package of measures related to the war in Ukraine. Unfortunately, in this decision, which was supported by all parties, except for the parliamentary group of a party AGE, in addition to this purely emotional decision, it is not bound by any financial frameworks that are entirely left to the discretion of the Council of Ministers and, most likely, specific to your assessment of what money to be spent on individual points. There's six points. Interesting is the point that concerns military technical cooperation, and de facto my question is about order. I know that before the decision has been made by the Council of Ministers, you cannot tell me with the specifics, but I am interested in the order of what money we are talking about for BGN 5 million. BGN, for 5 billion lv.? My question to you specifically is: what estimates does your ministry make? Do you have a plan for the amounts to be spent on this package of measures? Do you have an upper limit for the costs of this package? And specifically, if you can tell me, of course, what are the costs that you have provided for a letter of this decision, i.e. military-technical assistance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u314	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u315	Mr. Drenchev, thank you for the question. It is also extremely relevant and part of the crisis measures that we had to take related to the war and the scenarios to do. The measures were read in three scenarios. One scenario is with about 100,000 Ukrainian refugees, which is about what we have reached so far. Right now, I think it's 74,000. And 400 faces. The other scenario is estimated at the aggravation of the war in Ukraine for 300,000 Ukrainian refugees. The third scenario is read with a potential huge grain shortage, where there are refugees from North Africa as well, as you know, if there is no grain there, the chance that there is a refugee wave going from south to north to Europe is not small. At present, the current scenario, which we are currently, has been provided with 16 million. lv. So far, they've been paid off by the government. For the period from May to December, around 40 million are expected. lv. Separately, the Ministry of Interior has stated 660 thousand. lv. additional means of strengthening borders and so on. The funds that we have under the CARE programme from the European Union amount to just over 150 million. EUR, i.e. around 300 million. lv. At the moment, according to our estimates, even in the difficult scenario with 300,000 refugees, we could fit into these funds, that is to say not to go directly into the national budget, outside of the initial 16 million we gave, because there was not yet a European Union programme relating to refugees. As far as the last measure is concerned, as far as we know, Ukraine's request is for repair of equipment that does not create expenditure in the budget, but rather creates revenue in the military industrial complex. So we do not expect there to be any dramatic costs associated with this measure in the way it was adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u316	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u317	Mr. Vassilev, thank you for the figure you said "56 " 57 million. As punctuality and order I understand. I am concerned about the other scenarios that you have said, that is, an upper limit, especially if there is a crisis in North Africa, we have no idea what this is about. That definitely bothers me. I would very much like us to always have our needs and our problems focused in the first place, because they are absolutely no smaller than those in Ukraine. Perhaps in some parts, people are dying in some territories, but otherwise all the other problems they have in Ukraine have with the same force. We have problems with the health care system, we don't have a children's hospital, we don't have kindergartens, we have huge needs, we have a destitute population of pensioners, we have a working poor, we have an energy crisis and we have companies that close, and indeed every lev that isn't specifically given for humanitarian aid to people who really run away from war, and I am very keen to avoid paying any sums. There may indeed be people who are fleeing the war, but what we are hearing is also being spoken to, and I suppose at some point it will come to the surface and it will become clear that in fact these 70,000 refugees are actually hikers who come for free on vacation, and when the package that we provide them ends, they return to Ukraine. That really needs to be seen, but for the moment, the services are not carrying out that kind of data. They do not know how many of the people who come to us as refugees are planning to stay permanently and how much they have just come on vacation. So really, I ask you very cheaply to treat every lev that the Bulgarian people with hard work and with grief brings into the state budget and is given in some not very clear way. And I end up with one last sentence. We voted 50 million humanitarian aid to Ukraine, which is actually implemented with helmets and bulletproof vests, and in fact instead of supporting the poor, the starving, the needing medicines, we have armed paramilitary formations that will use these aids with God knows what intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u318	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u319	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. A few details. 16 million have come out of the Bulgarian budget. Everything else is covered by EU funds of around 300 million. lv. So what Bulgaria has directly taken out of the budget is 16 million. Believe me, we're very closely tracking them the same way we're tracking every dollar we spend in the country. As far as the tough scenarios are concerned. Yeah, they're disturbing. Yeah, we got the readings on them. Yeah, we're ready for them. Of the Ukrainians who have entered the country, the only ones who are entitled to help are those who have requested status. Those who have not requested status are not enjoying this. Moreover, the funds do not go to Ukrainian citizens themselves, but they go to hotels, guest houses, etc., which provide shelter and food for these citizens. As you know, at the moment this measure expires on 31 May. Then, just because we track every lev, a lot of these people are redirected to the state rest stations, where the alimony would be much smaller. But organizing such stations in such a short period, as were the buses with refugees from Ukraine, could not have happened. From now on, what the team of Deputy Prime Minister Konstantinova is developing is, by obtaining status, they have the same obligations and rights as other Bulgarian citizens. They must work, they are entitled, if they work and are provided, to health insurance, they are entitled to access the programs that are for employment, which are also available to all Bulgarian citizens. In other words, there is no discrimination against them either positive or negative. Personally, in my political capacity, and not as Minister of Finance, I think that the right thing is to treat these people as equal to Bulgarian citizens on the territory of the country as soon as they have obtained status. Until they have status, they are what you have said, people who have temporarily entered the territory of the country, without saying that they need this support and without asking for this support, and without taking over the obligations which, by declaring status, they are actually taking over. I can guarantee you that every Bulgarian lev given is given with the exact same strict control with which we give the means with which we supported our pensioners. If you remember, one of the first decisions of this National Assembly was for 60 BGN. a kind of supplement thanks to the extra funds last year. With the same care with which the funds are spent in the Health Fund so that there is an opportunity for higher remuneration of doctors and nurses. With the same care we give the funds for the free kindergartens for all Bulgarian citizens. So this is a normal human policy that does not discriminate in any way against Ukrainian citizens who have requested status or Bulgarian citizens. And we actually care about them the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u320	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions of Kalina Konstantinova, Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Governance. Before that, I will make some clarification, as we have a question and a question to ask about it on the same subject. We're procedurally uniting them, just so you know, both you and the people who are following us, how we're going to proceed. I will give the question to the questioners to develop it in 2 minutes, then to the questioners to develop it in 3 minutes, then a general answer from the minister within 8 minutes. Then I will give the floor to the people's representative who asked the question for a reply, after which the deputy prime minister's duplicate and we continue in the procedure of asking two supplementary questions, an answer and a corresponding attitude to the answer. To be honest, this is the first time I've ever brought up such a powerful question and a question and a question. The first question is from the MPs Blagovest Kirilov, Ivan Petkov and Ilian Slaveykov Yonchev about the collapse of the system of the Bulgarian Post Office and the payment of benefits to pensions. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. You have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! On 16 April this year, a hacker attack was reported on the system of the Bulgarian Post Office, as a result of which to this day it is necessary to work on paper, which makes it difficult for both the payment of pensions and many of the other services provided by the post office. There are also signals that citizens have been informed by employees of the Bulgarian Post Office that they can only receive their pension, but not the supplements, which is worrying. According to your statement, Post Office security systems have been neglected in recent years and only now have all systems been transferred, or at least a large part of them, been transferred to the state hybrid private cloud. We believe that this situation creates a dangerous precedent, as well as a risk of leaking personal data of Bulgarian citizens. In this regard, please answer us why the systems of the Bulgarian Post Office were not located in the state hybrid private cloud at least the part with the data on pensioners, who performed the maintenance and when was the last legal audit of their security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u322	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Now a question by the MPs Stoyan Taslakov and Nikola Dimitrov about the state of the You have the floor to develop your question within 3 minutes, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u323	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, the problem with the Bulgarian Post Office has remained unresolved for years and the condition of this company is getting worse every day. Besides the hacking attack before Easter holidays, there is no mention of the incomplete payout of Post Office employees. No one gives information to either employees when full wages will be paid or citizens what happens to the systems and when everything will start working again. It is constantly said that the Bulgarian Post Offices are at a loss. Good practices can be accepted from other post offices in Europe, such as Deutsche Post, where sales revenues in the first quarter of 2021 have grown on an annual basis with the record 22% We wish to receive transparency about the case "Bulgarian Post Office" as well as a complete check of their situation. All over the world it is an honor to take a position in the Post Office, only here it is synonymous with shame, hamalian labor and low pay. In view of the above, please reply to the following question: has the company been fully inspected, what measures will be taken to stabilise and revive this institution and service? When will full wages be paid to the employees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u324	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Now you have the floor to answer the question and the question, Mrs. Konstantinova, within eight minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u325	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, thank you for the opportunity to disclose further information on the checks on my tragic legacy company from the highest tribune of the country. Prior to this question, the topic "Posty" has been mentioned so rarely in this House that literally the questions in recent years are counted during all the mandates of GERB. For the last four years, there have been two questions on this subject, so I am extremely happy that today, most of us at least, are committed to the well-being of the company. Let me get to the answer. I will have to share with everyone, except that they were not a priority for GERB, the Bulgarian Post Offices were not covered by the Cyber Security Act, nor were they included in the List of Strategic Objects, i.e. no control and support has been exercised on their information security. As far as the State hybrid private cloud is concerned, the DCHHO for a short period of time. The Bulgarian Post Office is a commercial company and although it is 100% state owned, it is not really part of the state administration and does not fall within the scope of the entities who are entitled to benefit from the resources of DCHO free of charge. Therefore, the Ministry of Electronic Governance and the State hybrid private cloud will have to be requited in connection with the use of resources for the needs of the Bulgarian Post Office. Given the urgency of the situation as a result of the cyber attack, the temporary provision of minimum resources by DHC was the only possible, adequate and fast option to rescue the Bulgarian Post Offices from complete destruction and start re-upping the systems quickly and in a safe environment. The support of the IT security systems has been carried out and is carried out, as I said, given that they are not within the reach of any other institutions, by ICT specialists from the Information and Communication Technologies Directorate in the Bulgarian Post Office. They are responsible for installing hardware, communication devices, firewalls, installation of antiviral software and so on, which has been done on the company's computers and servers all these processes. With regard to maintenance related to operation, monitoring and preventive measures, it shall be implemented by joint teams of the Security Directorate and the Information and Communication Technologies Directorate, i.e. fully within the company. According to the employees in the Bulgarian Post Office, the company has applied modern technologies for physical and information security, given the limited and insufficient financial security for this activity. They themselves point to the risk of a factor in demand, insofar as there is insufficient level of computer literacy among local employees, which we see as a direct consequence of poor working conditions and offensively low pay. As regards the audit of the information security systems of the Bulgarian Post Offices, this has been carried out by a team of internal auditors of the system managements of information security, employees of the Security Offices and ICT in the period 5 September 2021, a number of deficits have been found, for which the directors of ICT and Finance are informed, as well as the directors of regional governments and the specialized branch of the Bulgarian philately and numismatics. According to the risk assessment, consequences can be breakthroughs of systems due to external intervention, as well as disruption of services due to refusal of communication devices. In mid-October 14, October 15, 2021, a supervisory audit was carried out by the audit team of the certification organisation. Immediately before the hacking attack, the implementation of a contract of 23 February 2002 was carried out with the subject: "Research and evaluation of the level of optimization of the ICT structure of the Bulgarian Post Office, with external contractor "ZN " 97" Ltd. and provided an audit report on 14 April 2022. In conclusion, the audit report reaffirms the findings of the internal and supervisory audit described above. In short, the findings of the three audits produced a number of deficiencies of modern technical means to ensure the security of information systems. For example, lack of system monitoring system for system administrators, the availability of 2600 workstations with morally outdated hardware, which are impossible to install current antiviral software due to outdated operating systems, and so on. The reports contain specific recommendations for improvements, and there is also an appreciation in the latest report of the proposals for improvements with projects worth a total of nearly 78 million. dollar without VAT and estimated execution time between 18 to 36 months. This leads me to the answer to the question regarding the company's revision, the stabilisation measures and specifically the remuneration of the employees. Since my designation as an authority exercising the rights of the State in the company, two inspections have been awarded. One from the internal audit of the Council of Ministers in order to check the state and ownership of the properties in the Bulgarian Post Office for the last two years and the other from ADFI about the financial situation and management of the company for the last two years. In mid-April, we received the results of the internal audit of the Council of Ministers on the state of the property and their ways of management. This, by chance or not, coincided with the cyber attack on the systems of the Bulgarian Post Office, this was also the moment when I decided to request the resignations of the former Board of Directors, and the latter were not exempted. At the moment, the verification of ADFI continues, expecting that the report from them will be ready at the beginning of June. In the Internal Audit Report there are more than 30 findings of violations in the way of management of the property of the Bulgarian Posts. For example, the last property valuation was made in 2001, more than 20 years ago. Since then, prices have not been updated in relation to property market values. This, on the one hand, has led to a loss of the budget in terms of taxes due and, on the other, to the disposal of property, for example, renting them out. The price that is set is in times below the market and is the logical price for such types of transactions. For example, the base in the center of Pamporovo is dedicated to 86 pennies per square meter or 2 leva. on a high-season room. On the basis of the findings of the internal audit, I have sent a request to the President of ADFI to extend the verification they have carried out and to take account of the infringements identified and of the internal audit. What is within the limits of my powers is to refer to the relevant authorities to do what is due and possible by law, so that the guilty persons for the condition of the Bulgarian Post Office to bear their responsibility at the moment. In this regard, the NRA, the DANS, the Ministry of Interior and, in particular, the Department of Cyber Security at DGBOP and the Economic Police to exercise their powers and carry out their respective checks in their competence. With regard to the Court of Auditors, you know that it is the authority of the National Assembly to entrust a check beyond the planned for the year. That is why it has not been referred to by me, but I urge you to do so. With regard to asking what measures to stabilise and build this key institution we have taken. The Bulgarian Post Office spoke at all when we stated that we had a plan for their recovery. We have shared from the first day that they are a top priority for this governance, and our strategy is to heal them, modernise them and turn them into a Single Centre for Administrative Service and we have worked to implement this strategy from the very beginning. We have prepared a whole new project under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan for 100 million. BGN, which has already been approved. I would like to point out that before our intervention no one had ever thought to include the Bulgarian Post Office in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural With regard to paying employees' salaries, I am pleased to announce that the entire salaries in the first few days of the inauguration of the new management have been fully paid off and there are no concerns about the payment of the next salaries.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u326	Something perhaps about the dots to leave, Mrs. Konstantinova, that has advanced the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u327	Because there was a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u328	That's true, but there's been a lot of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u329	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u330	Let's save it for after, you'll continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u331	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u332	Let's finish the questions and answers, Mr. Ananiev, in the middle of the procedure let's not interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u333	Can I do it now?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u334	If you really want to do it, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u336	...I think I'm doing a slight violation of that. Come on in if you're in such a hurry. However, I must say that Parliamentary control will be extended by 17 minutes... so are the minutes of declarations, but say it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u337	Dear Mr. Chairman, thank you for giving me this procedure. She's usually with you. I wanted to let you know that on the grounds of art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly will take advantage of the call made by the Deputy Prime Minister, and we will now enter, in fact, on the basis of this inquiry, next Friday we will have a debate and decide to assign the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance with the financial management of the Bulgarian Post Offices. So I'm gonna go in and give it to you to meet him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u338	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. When it comes to me with the incoming number, we will schedule the relevant debates. I'll give Mr. Petkov the floor for a line, and then you'll have the doppelganger, Mrs. Konstantinova. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u339	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! Interesting questions, there were even additional answers, which are good, however, because "Bulgarian Posts" EAD, as well as the colleagues from the ARCHER said, are vital to society and especially to those who ask the questions. Because despite what you said, on May 5th the Bulgarian Post Office came up with official information that the Easter supplements have not yet been paid to a very large group of pensioners. The lists have also moved on to NSI registers, and they are not relevant. There are some people who live like I am from Plovdiv, but I live in Yambol, and they can't get their pension. At the same time, domestic accounts cannot be paid, as in some smaller settlements the Post Office cannot perform these services. These are things that are good to be done very quickly because, for example, since the end of March, the Greek Post Offices have been attacked, but they have been protected on the same day and it has not happened what happened to us. Yes, most likely, as you have said in recent years the carelessness in the Bulgarian Post Office has led to this, but unfortunately, people do not receive their remuneration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u340	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Here you go, Mrs. Konstantinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u341	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just in a hurry to finish what I wanted to say about employees' salaries. Due to the collapse in the systems 30% of the salaries were not paid, but this week all employees have received their full remuneration and no such thing is expected for their next salaries so that there is no concern. Just to make it clear to you. Regarding the payment of pensions. This is the second time we've paid pensions in a paper process, I'm ready, if you want, to discuss the part with the cyber attack and how it came to having a complete breakdown in the system, we've discussed it in the Digitalization Commission, and believe me, who is responsible, will take responsibility, but that's what we have, and in fact paper saves us all for laughing. In this sense, pensions are paid for the second month on the lists of NSIs on paper. The fact is that 100% of pensioners received their Easter supplements last month and received their pensions. At the moment we are absolutely confident again, but yes, there are some problems, yesterday for example, an Incasso car crashed in one of the cities that happened in some city. There are some problems that in the paper process seem a little slower and can sometimes form tails, and for anything you can signal on the phone line. Each day we write very carefully about the other services which ones are placed on which location. So, in terms of pensions, no one should worry that there is any problem. If there is a problem, it is most likely in some human factor, to immediately signal the phone that is on the website. With regard to household accounts, you are right about this is a service that is a fact. It is not one of the universal services for which the State pays a subsidy, and this is a market service. It is extremely key to the post office and mostly because of the revenue they generate. Believe me, they work every day directly to let her go. Each day at the beginning and at the end of the day, update the list of all stations where the service has already managed to start. As I told you, these are over 2,500 locations, and 6,600 computers need to be reinstalled. We already have information that about 400 of them are irretrievably lost because they cannot support the new software and cannot be brought back to life, so the whole process will be complicated. Thank you for the patience of all postal customers and we are looking to inform them in a timely manner. But again, there should be no worries, yes, although a little slower, 100% of the pensioners again, the second month in a row, will receive their pensions, albeit a little smoother, in a paper process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u342	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Now I give the floor to the questioners asking for supplementary questions. Here you go, Mr. Taslakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u343	Thank you. Ms. Konstantinova, I thank you for your comprehensive answers and hope that the intentions for the revival of this institution will be fulfilled. The only thing I want to ask is: do you have any specific data on where the hacker attack came from because there was speculation and rumors in the media that I would like from here, from this tribune, to distract? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u344	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u345	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Members of Parliament, what I advise you, given that I am not an information security specialist, is to call for a hearing with someone from DGBOP or DANS who has conducted an investigation and forensic analysis of the situation. What I can tell you is that the cryptovirus is set up so that it can affect all countries without Russia and the countries of the former Soviet republics, i.e. the secondary extrapolation of the data has a clear clue that it comes from this region. So this is what we have as specific data on the origin of the attack, and for some broader interpretation on the subject you can invite the specialists and go into depth.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u346	Thank you, Mrs. Konstantinova. Now you can relate to the answer to do, Mr. Taslakov, if you wish. No, okay. This is also the end of the questions to Deputy Prime Minister Konstantinova. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We are moving on to the control of Teodora Gencovska, Minister of Foreign Affairs. There is one question to her by the National Representative Radomir Cholakov about providing free access for citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria to the church registers of the churches in the diocese of the Bulgarian Exarchy located in the territory of the present-day Republic of Northern Macedonia in brackets, the archive of the Bulgarian Exarchy. Mr. Cholakov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u347	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister Gencovska, in fact it all began from a simple human history. My loved one told me two months ago that in her family, refugees from Macedonia, after the wars during the escape, had lost her grandfather's documents and it actually proved that it could not be established with accuracy its birth date. People are, how can I say, great patriots, want to know their family history and have gone to the Republic of Northern Macedonia a while ago, to the native village of the ancestors, somewhere around Bitola, and tried to find the church registers. I don't know if you guys know this, but in old times, Esgraun was led by the Orthodox Church. The register of civil registration is led by the Orthodox Church, and this is the registers that are kept in churches, the registers of baptisms, weddings and funerals, which, if you think about it, is the Esgraun actually. They have come across the following problem. They started to shift them from service to service, they went to the State Archive of the Republic of Macedonia in Skopje, and from there they were told that these registers might be in the archives of the Municipality in Bitola, and from the archives of the Municipality in Bitola told them that they were missing. They were asked to fill out some declarations in Macedonian language to demonstrate knowledge in Macedonian language, and then some official verbally told them that these registers would not be received. This intrigued me very much in the light of the good neighbourhood and the desire of all the Republic of Northern Macedonia to be a member of the European Union someday, and it seemed normal to me that our constituents also felt normal for Bulgarian citizens to be able to access the archives, and in this particular case the church registers, which were led by the churches in the diocese of the Bulgarian Exarchy. And I took the liberty of asking myself if the Foreign Ministry had ever raised such a question, and it wasn't interested. But the very fact that obstacles have been created by Bulgarian citizens is a fact that deserves the attention of the Foreign Ministry, and deserves to be raised if it has not been raised so far, in the sharpest way in any subsequent talks that you will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u348	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u349	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Cholakov, thank you for the question, because it is indeed of great importance to the national interest and the subject in our relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. There are many valuable ideas in the whole issue that came to me from your side, and information. I'd like to have a purely human conversation, but I have to take this completely formally, because I have three minutes, and I'm sorry for that. As a result of your letter, an inspection was ordered, which found the following: At present, on the website of the State Archive of the Republic of Northern Macedonia it is pointed out that the church funds of the Bulgarian Exarchy are stored at the headquarters of the State Archive of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the section "Archive network," central division. It is also noted that in the departments of the State Archive of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the cities of Skopje, Ohrid, Prilep, Tetovo, Stip is kept the archival funds of the Orthodox Church. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no information as to whether all of the archives of the State of RSM are original, or some of them are copies provided by the Bulgarian Archives, respectively the State Agency of Archives, where archive funds of the Bulgarian Exarchion are also stored from the territory of the present Republic of Northern Macedonia, which were carried into Bulgaria in the period 1918. It should be borne in mind that some of the archive units mentioned in your question have been transferred to Belgrade by the Serbian Orthodox Church, which has extended church jurisdiction over the territory of today's Republic of Northern Macedonia. At the same time, according to information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a number of citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia keep at home documents of birth, death, church marriage issued by the Bulgarian Exarchy of their parents and relatives. Such documents are presented in original application for Bulgarian citizenship as certificates of Bulgarian origin and in accordance with the provisions of the Bulgarian legislation. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the competent Bulgarian state institutions, which should have more specific information on the question you have asked, are the State Agency "Archives" and the Ministry of Culture. I am using the case to inform you that given the importance of the issue, including in the light of the tasks of the Bulgarian diplomatic service, the Foreign Ministry has already sent a request to the State Agency "Archives" and I can highlight the following more important information from the answer received. I can also provide the entire response to the State Agency: The documents from the activities of the Bulgarian Exarchy on the territory of the present-day Republic of Northern Macedonia in the Bulgarian archives are preserved in the Central State Archives, the Archive Fund No 246/K, the Bulgarian Exarchy, for the period 1870 - 1953, containing 4712 archive units whose inventory are publicly available both in the Chitalishtes of the Central State Archive and online. Some of these documents are the so-called parish registers used to prove Bulgarian origin. The issue of providing free access for citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria to the church registers of the churches and diocese of the Bulgarian Exarchy located in the territory of today's Republic of Northern Macedonia is not specifically addressed in the Treaty of Cooperation between the State Archives of the two countries. In the Bulgarian archives there is no copy of the church registers from the archives stored in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. At the same time, on the basis of the general provisions of the Treaty on the reciprocal exchange of copies of documents during the years in the Central State Archive of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, 52 665 copies of various exarchical documents from the period 1890 [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In conclusion, I would like to assure you that, in coordination with the competent Bulgarian institutions, the Foreign Ministry will continue to monitor the issue of access to the archives of the Bulgarian Exarchy in the Republic of Northern Macedonia with caution, including in view of its importance in the overall context of the protection of the Bulgarian national interest in relations with Northern Macedonia. Thank you, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u350	Thank you, Mrs. Genchovska. A little more time I gave you, however, the topic requires completeness. Here's a line, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u351	I sincerely thank you, Mrs. Genchovska, for the answer, all the more so that behind the dry administrative style I felt that you had a personal attitude or developed a personal attitude towards the subject for which I thank you and encourage you. Just two more rounds. When you said he had good ideas, a few more ideas came to mind while I was listening to your exhibition. The approach in the European Union and in the relations between EU members has never been emotional, it is strictly formal and bureaucratic, and so must it be. We must approach this subject without emotions, formal and bureaucratic. That is why I had pointed out in my question, and perhaps it is correct, so the State Agency "Archives" said that in the contract they concluded with the Macedonian archives, there is no regulation for access to the exarchical registers, but also in the Treaty of Good Neighborhood, Friendship and Cooperation in Art. 4 It is said that the two countries provide assistance between the state authorities. So, on the basis of art. 4 - Cold and bureaucratic, the Bulgarian state may demand this from the Republic of Northern Macedonia without any emotions, without any explanation of why. That's one. The second thing that occurred to me, I say again, as I was listening to your exhibition, is: You mentioned that some part of the exarchian archives had been transferred to Belgrade. It seems to me that the Bulgarian state could require the Republic of Northern Macedonia to demand back its archives from Belgrade because they are itss to get them back so that we can read them in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u352	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Cholakov, I really appreciate the suggestions. Your proposals will be presented to the sectoral groups and, in particular, to the colleagues from the State Archives, as well as to the Ministry of Culture because under art. 11 of the Treaty they have an agreement with the portfolio ministry. We will monitor the results of their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u354	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We've run out of questions for you. Thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the question to the Minister of Defence Mr. Dragomir Zakov, from Petar Petrov about the state of property, a military unit owned by the Ministry of Defence, located on the territory of the town of Vratsa. Here you are, Mr. Petrov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u355	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister! The theme of real estate, which is owned by the Ministry of Defence, I believe it is extremely important for Bulgarian citizens to understand the way in which they are managed, not only because of the reduction of the Bulgarian army for the last 30 years, but also because of the way in which the state property is managed at all. The reason I ask you this question is because the Vratsa region is one of the areas for which I am responsible, and I go there quite often. For years, I've been watching the property that represents what's called a military unit. Behind some neglected concrete walls there are collapsed buildings, unsupported buildings, there are already grown trees and shrubs. Obviously, this property, at least visible, is not supported and therefore not only in me, but also in the local public, raises the question: how this real estate is managed, what are the plans of the Ministry for it and how this property should be managed. Of course, I take note of the fact that you have absolutely no fault in the previous management of this property, no matter what it was, but I just wish with this issue that we would pay a little attention to the policy of the Ministry of Defence, the cashier's property, not only for real, but also for a movable one. So I ask you this question: how is this real estate currently managed by the State and does it have any plans regarding it, possibly for its sale or other instrumental transaction? Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u356	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Zakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u357	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Petrov, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Since a specific property has not been identified in the letter, we assume that it is probably a tactical field of the city of Vratsa. I know this property from my military service, by the way. Part of this area is active and is used as intended for the needs of the Bulgarian Army. The rest of the area has a devoid of necessity for the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army and is divided into four land properties along with the buildings built on them. To date, one of the properties is a storage area for storage of surplus movable objects for general use. For the properties, public state property acts are drawn up. They are guarded by the company "MOBA" Ltd., on which I am a principal under a contract. The same were provided for the needs of the Bulgarian Army, but they ceased to be necessary for their users and were accepted in the Ministry of Defence. Some of these buildings are in poor condition, which is why they are certified as unfit and are proposed for actual removal. Given that they have a devoid of necessity for the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army and according to the approved vision of the Ministry for a comprehensive exemption from military areas with a devoid of necessity, which was adopted in 2020, with Horizon 2032. They are a total of three types: the first is the granting of the Municipality of Vratsa for management or transfer of ownership according to art. 54 of the State Property Act; the second option is after their conversion by a decision of the Council of Ministers of State Property Public Property in Private State Property, respectively sale by tender under the Law of State Property and its Implementation Rules; the third option is in the interest of another office to grant the right to management of the property again under the Law of State Property. At the moment, the Ministry of Defence is conducting an analysis to decide, as appropriate, in relation to future management actions with exactly those properties that were mentioned. Let me in addition come out of the dry bureaucratic picture and say that you are right that you need to look much more seriously at how we dispose of these properties. What I had ordered literally 10 days ago was to make a strategy on how to do it further, how to manage these properties, how to free ourselves from them. Not just to free ourselves from assets, but when we free ourselves from assets, how this non-necessary asset could become another asset that is needed. There are different options for this to happen, so basically the idea of moving on to a slightly more active management of this asset, which at the same time carries very few liabilities, as security costs money, moving goods that are located in the territory of similar areas also cost money, the warehouses in which they are located also have security and so on. In other words, these are things that need to be managed a little more actively in the part of "passive" and "activities" in order to really benefit from this, rather than merely owning some properties that will be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u358	Thank you, Mr. Zakov. You have the floor for a line in two minutes, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u359	Thank you. Dear Minister, first of all, thank you for your attitude. Yeah, you're right. That's the property we were talking about. I really hope that through these questions that we are asking in the order of parliamentary control, we will raise the much-needed concern and, accordingly, the desire of the executive to manage, manage and better dispose of property that is state-owned. One thing you are right about is that when the state is exempt from these assets, they should become other assets that are useful to the state. Finally, I would like to thank you, respectively, for the written answer that I received at the question referred to the authorising transactions carried out in the period 2017 - 2021. I really thank you for the detailed information.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-13.u360	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? No. Thank you, Minister, for your participation in today's parliamentary control. That was the last question for today. I have a message to read: In connection with the questioning of the MPs Stoyan Taslakov and Nikola Dimitrov by letter No 47-254-00-62 of 13 May 2022, submitted today at 13.50, there was a request for debate on the questioning No 47-254-05-79 of 28 April 2022 and a draft decision on the inquiry by the said MPs to the Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Governance Kalina Konstantinova concerning a request for the state of the Bulgarian Post Office, the salaries of employees and the hacking attack. The proposal for a debate and the draft decision are signed by 52 MPs. The requirement of art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly more than 1/5 of the Members of the National Assembly shall make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 101, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. If something doesn't change, it's May 20, 2022. The next regular meeting will take place on 18 May 2022, Wednesday, at 9.00. Thank you for your participation in the parliamentary control. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
