ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning. Please take your seats and request registration. Registered 164 MPs. There's a quorum. I'm opening today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, I propose the following draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for today, June 24th. "1." Draft decision to approve proposals from the French Presidency Draft negotiating framework for membership in the European Union of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania, importers of Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs; Draft decision to take action by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to approve the draft negotiating framework and the draft Opinion of the Council of the European Union on the European integration of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs; and Draft decision on the enlargement of the European Union and the negotiation process of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, importing Hristo Ivanov. These three draft decisions are integrated into one point of general consideration. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 4. From 11:00 a.m. regular parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote on the Programme. [[Relations from the National Representative Angel Georgiev.]] After that, Mr. Georgiev, proposals are being made under the Programme, we are now in a voting procedure. Vote 221 MPs: 210 against 11, no abstentions. Mr. Georgiev, just to clear the proposals under para. 3, by forming the final version of the program, then you will be able to make your proposals. Proposals have been made under art. 47, para. 3 from Mr. Lyubomir Karimanski, who offers as point one for Wednesday, but actually Wednesday has long since passed. Mr. Karimansky, let me see which proposal you withdrew. Mr. Karimansky's proposal to include the Personal Aid Act. Mr. Karimansky, formally must withdraw and be re-entryed for next week. Otherwise, I have to put it to the vote. You're withdrawing him? Yeah. Mr. Karimansky withdraws his offer. There is a proposal from Mrs. Desislava Atanasova to include the draft decision relating to the Republic of Northern Macedonia. It is included in the Programme and should therefore not be put to the vote. In the same way there is a proposal from Mrs. Denitsa Nikolova, which concerns the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, which is included in the Programme. We have a proposal to include the Law on Public Offering of Securities submitted by Mr. Kiril Ananiev. It is also included in the Programme and should not be put to the vote. Mr. Karimanski proposed a draft decision to change the composition of the Standing Committee on Budget and Finance, which has been withdrawn. We have another proposal that we will put to the vote a proposal from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u2	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u3	Mr. Nenkov also withdrew his offer. Mr. Georgiev, we're listening. For procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From ARRANGEMENT, we propose that item one of the agenda be dropped for the following reasons. Firstly, we have no change in the factual situation, i.e. the framework position we have stepped on, the Declaration of the National Assembly and the Decision of the Advisory Council on National Security still applies, and their considerations still apply, namely, Macedonia has not reformed in any way...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u5	Mr. Georgiev, this is a statement on the ground and is not admissible in a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u6	I'm explaining why we're offering it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u7	Well, that's a statement, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u8	It's not about the point. Separately, the current parliament in this kind of moral, political, idea, and management is bankrupt and is unable to decide on such fundamental issues that concern the future of the Bulgarian people for decades to come, which is why we believe that this point should be dropped. Another point, which should also be pointed out, is that it is not a state-owned proposal tabled in 12 seconds without 10 seconds rather, not without one minute even, to be discussed with such ease, given that their importance is enormous. Yesterday, at the Committee on Foreign Policy in the Holidays, the groups of.. We continue the Change, GERB, Democratic Bulgaria............................. and the DPS gathered together to propose a draft decision, namely something as important can not be considered for half an hour as it was yesterday. It cannot and is not right for something so substantial to enter yesterday and to be put to the vote today, which is why we propose dropping the veto point against Macedonia from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u9	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Is there a reverse opinion? Mr. Mihnev, come in. [[Noise, lines, laughter.]] Quiet, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, I'm making a reverse offer. My feedback is that this topic has been addressed, the Foreign Ministry has finally been heard for three hours in the Commission. The MPs and the Bulgarian people heard everything they needed to hear on the proposal, namely that it is the best deal Bulgaria has ever negotiated in the European Union on the topic ever since it was a member of the European Union. So we can proceed quite calmly to the vote in this House. You know that Europe's eyes are staring at us. [[(Noise, laughter from GERB-SDS, shouting:]] It is important to point out that it is very important to note that the Group of "We are continuing the Change" did not participate in the meeting, which wrote a joint decision, as we also needed to be convinced and to hear the arguments of the importers of this decision. Once we have heard them, we will support such a decision, but there is no such film as to happen, to write a solution together with DPS and GERB. Thank you. [[(Noise, lines from GERB-SDS, shouts: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u11	Thank you, Mr. Mihnev. Mr. Popov, do you still want a procedure? Colleagues, I am voting on Mr. Angel Georgiev's proposal for dropping item one from the agenda. They voted 223 MPs: 12, against 188, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Popov, you have the floor for procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose a direct broadcast of item one of today's agenda on BNT1 and BNR.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u13	Inverse opinion, colleagues, is there? The proposal is that the first item should be broadcast on BNT1 and on BNR. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a minute, I didn't give the voting procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] A reverse opinion? A procedural proposal shall always give a Member of the National Assembly the right to express his views back. Please vote on Mr. Popov's proposal. Vote 229 MPs: for 224, against 1, abstention 4. That's how the offer is accepted. Please turn on the cameras and microphones of BNT1 and BNR. Other procedures, colleagues, is there, or can we proceed to the agenda? I can't see. Before that, only two messages: The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of two planes with their crews of the Korean Air Force. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's permission to fly into the airspace should be granted to the State concerned after a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas, namely the Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notification was received on 1 June 2022 by IC. No 47 203-09-63 and granted to the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u14	Which Korea are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u15	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u16	Is it the Northerners?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u17	Yes, it is. We hope not, Mr. Hamid. The Defence Committee will clarify this issue. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the dispatch and use of an aircraft from the Republic of Bulgaria to the Federal Republic of Germany and back with crew of the troops of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. The notification was received on 23 June 2022 by IC. No 47-203-09-64 and granted again to the Defence Committee. Colleagues, we can proceed to item one of the agenda, namely the consideration of three draft decisions: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVAL THE PROPOSED FRENCH PRESENTITY PROJECT FOR A MEMBER STATE IN THE EUROPEAN UNION OF THE REPUBLIC OF Northern Macedonia AND THE REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA, PROJECT OF A DECISION FOR THE PRESENTATION OF ACTS BY THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA ON APPROVAL OF THE PROJECT OF THE PRESENTATION AND PROJECT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION ON THE EUROPEAN INTERPRETEGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF Northern Macedonia AND PROJECT OF A DECISION WITH REGARD TO THE DISCLOSION OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE PROCEEDING OF THE PRESENTERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF Northern Macedonia. A report came in from the Foreign Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u18	Affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u19	For a statement, please come in, Mr. Kostadinov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u20	Mr. Chairman, fellow countrymen! It's June 24th. On this day in 1913, the fiercest battles were fought during the Second Balkan War. The second Balkan war began on 16 June, known in Bulgarian history as a day of criminal insanity, and ended 40 days later, unfortunately, with a complete defeat of Bulgaria, not military, not military defeat, because Bulgaria won all its battles, but political defeat. During this war, which was just over 100 years ago "almost 110," Bulgaria faced not one but five Balkan countries. Then we are in the center of the Balkans, the strongest country, the strongest economy, the strongest army and even the efforts of Turkey, Greece, Serbia, Romania and Montenegro, even which have no common border with it, but it is attacking us too, cannot bring us down anything quite different. It brings down to us that the Great Powers are at this moment facing Bulgaria and are giving a clear sign all of them, without one, that if Bulgaria does not end the resistance, it will be occupied and dismembered regardless of our military victories. On June 24, 1913, the Bulgarian Army won some of its greatest magnificent victories in its history, only a few days later Bulgarian diplomacy forced the Bulgarian Army to put arms on it was 109 years ago. A few months later, Bucharest's peace treaty was signed. With this Bucharest peace treaty Bulgaria suffers its first national catastrophe. In history, however, there is a rematch. A few decades later, on May 25, 1941, here, from this tribune, a declaration was read that Bulgaria is uniting with Vardar Macedonia is 80 years ago. From this tribune, representatives of both the government and the opposition in parliament were appointed from this place then, although he was a partyless, there were both representatives of government and opposition, as always. All of them without any hesitation and without one voice against accepting the unification of Bulgaria and Macedonia, by the way, of Belomore Thrace, the Western outskirts, Pirot and Vranya. Our National Assembly has shown that there are moments when it can be united, led by a national cause. Unfortunately, it has shown that there are times when it can succumb to foreign pressure, like Bulgarian diplomacy in 1913, it has shown that there are times when political Bulgarian logic prevails, there are times when foreign pressure and foreign national interest prevail. At present, we are in a situation where we need to look back to see what our ancestors did, both those who were in the army and those who were in diplomacy, and to see when and how Bulgaria achieved its success and when it suffered damage. She achieved her success when she was united. She suffered damage at the time when she was divided, when there was foreign pressure when foreign interests were infiltrated into the Bulgarian government, both before 1944 and after 1944. The geopolitical layers are currently being rearranged worldwide. Currently, like 109 years ago, as well as 81 years ago, Bulgaria is faced with a choice and is under very serious pressure what path should it take and whose interests to pursue. Your own or someone else's. We at ARGUING believe that the only thing that should lead every MP here is the Bulgarian national interest, and the Bulgarian national interest has always been and will continue to be Bulgaria to be free, independent, united and prosperous. Let us make a good example, if possible, because otherwise the national betrayal will not be forgiven, because we should not allow 81 years ago from this tribune on May 25th to vote for the unification of Bulgaria with Macedonia unanimously by all, and 81 years later the present National Assembly to adopt decisions to bury once and for all the dream of Bulgaria's national ideal is free, independent, committed and prosperous. Not only us from the age of old, but every normal Bulgarian will not accept national betrayal here in the hall or anywhere. And that is why each of us should know that there are no parties behind us, behind us is the Bulgarian people, behind each of us, and the Bulgarian people will not forgive national betrayal. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u21	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Colleagues, who will present the Foreign Commission Report? Here you are, Mrs. Lubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u22	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision approving proposals from the French Presidency Draft negotiating framework for membership in the European Union of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania, No 47-254-02-74, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 22 June 2022; Draft decision to take action by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to approve the draft negotiating framework and the draft Opinion of the Council of the EU on the European Integration of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, No 47-254-02-75, submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 23 June 2022; Draft Decision of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria concerning the enlargement of the European Union and the negotiation process of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, No 47-2540-02-76, submitted by Hristo Ivanov on 23 June 2022 At an extraordinary meeting held on 23 June 2022, Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska reported to the Foreign Policy Committee on the proposal for a draft Council Framework and Conclusions of the Council of the French Presidency and on a draft Protocol of a second meeting of the Commission under art. 12 of the Treaty with the Republic of Northern Macedonia since 2017. As next item on the agenda, the Commission discussed Draft Decision No 47-254-02-74, Draft Decision No 47-254-02-75 and Draft Decision No 47 254 02-76. The reasons for the draft decisions were presented in the order of their submission by Stanislav Anastasov, the MP from the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group of the Parliamentary Movement for Rights and Freedoms, by Ekaterina Zaharieva, MP from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ, and by Hristo Ivanov, MP from the parliamentary group of the Democratic Bulgarian Parliamentary Group. The projects are proposed by the National Assembly to adopt a decision relating to the EU enlargement process with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. The draft decision presented by Stanislav Anastasov proposes approval of proposals by the French Presidency Draft of the negotiating framework for EU membership of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Albania. The draft decision presented by Ekaterina Zaharieva proposes to take action by the Council of Ministers to approve the draft negotiating framework and the draft Council of the EU Conclusion on the integration of the Republic of Northern Macedonia under certain conditions. The draft decision presented by Hristo Ivanov sets out specific conditions under which Bulgaria can support the process of European integration of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, as well as the conditions under which the government will approve the proposed by the current Presidency of the Council of the EU Draft negotiating framework and Council Conclusions. The importers of the three draft decisions expressed readiness for editorial proposals on them in order to achieve broad support. The representatives of the parliamentary group of the "There is such a people" and of the parliamentary group of the party AGE expressed reasons for rejecting all three draft decisions. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) presented a position against two of the projects from Karadayi from the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of the GERB-SDSS and according to the project of Hristo Ivanov from the parliamentary group of the Democratic Bulgaria. After a break in the meeting, editorial proposals were made to two of the draft decisions, respectively: - The Project, imported from Mustafa Karadaye. 1 after the word......................................................................................................... - The project submitted by Hristo Ivanov in the last indent after the word "Ramka" is added: "In connection with the adoption of the common positions of the European Union for the intergovernmental conferences by the Council of the European Union." On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Foreign Policy voted on draft decisions with the editorial proposals made as follows: 1. with 7 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour, and 0 votes abstention, propose that the National Assembly not adopt a draft decision approving proposals from the French Presidency draft negotiating framework for membership in the European Union of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania No 47-254-02-74, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 22 June 2022; 2. with 7 votes for the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria for approval of the draft negotiating framework and the draft Opinion of the Council of the EU on the European Integration of the Republic of Northern Macedonia No 47-254-02-75, submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 23 June 2022; 3. with 11 votes for the National Assembly, 3 votes against the European Union and 2 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision of the 40th National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with the enlargement of the European Union and the negotiation process of the Republic of Northern Macedonia No 47-254-02-76, submitted by Hristo Ivanov on 23 June 2022, as follows: Project! DECISION of the 14th National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with the enlargement of the European Union and the negotiation process of the Republic of Northern Macedonia The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED I. Confirms the conditions under which the Republic of Bulgaria can support any step in the process of European integration of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, namely: 1. Effective implementation of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation from 2017 and the minutes of the meetings of the Joint Intergovernmental Commission under art. 12 of that contract; 2. Guarantee the rights of Bulgarians in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, including by their entry, equal to other peoples, in the Constitution of the Republic of Northern Macedonia; 3. The existence of European guarantees for the fulfilment of the conditions under point (c) 1 and 2. II. To this end: The Government of the Republic of Bulgaria shall approve the draft negotiating framework proposed by the Presidency of the Council of the EU and for the Council's conclusion under the following conditions: - refine the text of the draft Council Conclusion so as to ensure the entry of Bulgarians in the Constitution of the Republic of Northern Macedonia into the provisions in which other peoples are mentioned and on an equal footing with these peoples; - improvement of the proposed draft negotiating framework and draft Council Conclusion in order to better reflect the fact that nothing in the process of joining the RSM in the EU can be interpreted as recognition by the Republic of Bulgaria of the existence of the Macedonian language. - guarantees that good neighbourhood remains a horizontal criterion within the whole process of the accession of the RSM to the EU, for which the EC will inform the Council before each Intergovernmental Conference; - inclusion of a reference to the bilateral protocols under art. 12 of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation in the negotiating framework on the adoption of the common positions of the European Union on intergovernmental conferences by the Council of the European Union. On this basis and only in the fulfilment of these conditions the forty-seventh National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria will expect the Council of Ministers to approve the draft negotiating framework at the same time or after finalizing the Protocol under art. 12 of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Lubenova. Just one clarification in the second paragraph after the introduction, you missed reading from the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. With this clarification to be recorded in the stenography protocol.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u24	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u25	Dear colleagues, will there be opinions by importer on the three decisions? First importer yes, Mr. Anastasov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The European future of the Western Balkan countries is, and should be, a priority for the country. During the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union with the active role of the state authorities and in the presence of consensus among all parties in the National Assembly then came to a qualitative new stage for the Western Balkan countries. The Bulgarian State maintained its consistent support for setting a real start to the process of accession to the European Union for the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania with the start of negotiations with the two countries. The Bulgarian Parliament continued to monitor the progress of the implementation of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, as well as the implementation of the Law on Minorities in the Republic of Albania. This is a process that must continue also after the start of membership negotiations with both sides and subsequently when signing and ratifying accession treaties. Today, taking into account the framework position, the declaration of the National Assembly from 2019 and the conclusions of the Advisory Council for National Security with the President of the Republic of Bulgaria this year, the National Assembly may approve proposals from the French Presidency Draft for a negotiating framework for the launch of negotiations for membership in the European Union of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania. Thus, the Bulgarian state receives a strong guarantee in the face of the European Union for the strict fulfilment of the conditions for good neighbourly relations, which have a horizontal meaning for the Republic of Bulgaria. The proposed draft decision provides for the simultaneous launch of the pre-accession negotiations of the European Union, the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania on the basis of the principle of individual efforts and the fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria and the conventions of the Stabilisation and Association Process. At the same time, taking into account the fulfilment of the criteria at every particular moment, I stress that Bulgaria reserves the right not to support the signing and ratification of the treaties for accession to the European Union of the two countries. The opening of negotiations should not be interpreted as a guarantee of EU membership, but as an incentive to accelerate reforms, strengthen the rule of law and maintain good neighbourly relations. For us as Bulgarian parliamentarians at this moment, the understanding is most important, colleagues, that inclusion with the European family of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania is primarily an investment in security and stability not only of the region, but also generally in an international aspect, especially in the situation we are currently in. In addition, close co-operation and expected development of even stronger allied ties with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania within NATO should be taken into account. In conclusion, colleagues, as we have always said, once again I would remind you that the position of DPS on this topic has always been crystal clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u27	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Mrs. Atanasova, please come in for an opinion on the importer on your draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 22 June, I made a declaration from the parliamentary tribune with which I announced the political decision taken by our executive committee, by our party and by our parliamentary group on this historic decision that we are about to take today. We have also received such support from our colleagues from the UDF with a decision of their national council and from the National Council of Movements. In this sense it is no surprise the decision which was announced by our leader Mr. Boyko Borisov at a special press conference. We have always realised that the strategic interest of Bulgaria is the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Western Balkan countries to join the European Union. Our government, the government of Borisov, identified this issue as a major priority in 2018 before the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. We signed a Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation with the Republic of Northern Macedonia as early as 2017. At the end of 2019, we asked our European partners to implement the Treaty in its entirety, including the work of the Historical Commission, the rights of Macedonian Bulgarians, the suspension of claims for a Macedonian minority in Bulgaria and the suspension of hate speech to become part of the negotiation process and the negotiating framework. This is what we have advocated at the National Security Advisory Council. We thank our European partners and friends. We thank our European family for hearing and understanding our concerns and comments not only now, but also when the GERB government discussed all these issues two years ago. The proposal we received last week from the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union refer to the bilateral protocols that must be signed by both sides. These protocols are de facto the roadmap, with specific commitments and stages that Skopje should implement. This draft protocol must be finalised, improved and signed by the government together with the negotiating framework. We therefore submitted to the 22nd Project for a decision to approve the negotiating framework to ensure that Bulgaria will not miss this historic moment, it will not miss the chance to protect our national interests. And then I called on all parties to part of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, which hold Bulgaria's European and Euro-Atlantic position and believe in the European future of the Western Balkans, to join our initiative. And then I stressed that GERB with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov put its signature under the 2019 Council of Ministers' Decision when we introduced the Framework Position under the 2017 Treaty, as well as today, at the moment when this historic decision is to be taken, GERB and our leader Boyko Borisov announced that it gives green light to the European road of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania. Then I told you two days ago that Borisov and our government started this process. Both Borisov and the MPs from GERB-SDS in the 40th National Assembly will complete it. Thank you! Thank you, colleagues, from all the parliamentary groups, for standing on the side of the European integration of the Western Balkan countries. However, the forty-seventh National Assembly is right that it can be united on topics important for Bulgaria on topics protecting the Bulgarian national interest on topics important for Europe. Today I would be happy to adopt a draft decision that brings together all the pro-European and pro-Euro-Atlantic forces in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. I wouldn't want us to take all the credit or the authorship. You know I did. I don't need to convince you any further. I hope we're united. I hope this time we can send out a positive signal to our neighbors, to our brothers. From our parliamentary group with conviction, 59 MPs will vote for the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania to join the negotiation process in our European family. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Hristo Ivanov for the third project.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! And I as an importer to say a few words. Enough has been said on, so to speak, the technical side of the issue, I would like to say a few political things. First, the status of our proposal. I look at it as the, so to speak, the embodiment of long efforts and discussions with the Foreign Ministry, it looks in the same direction as the proposals of colleagues from GERB and DPS. In this sense, purely in substance, all three proposals of equal strength can be supported. The second, since we have fallen into one such high school, I will call it a state in which who, where, where in which you talked and with whom, who wrote to whom in the vocabulary and so on we deal, voted, I would like to say clearly that when it comes to such important national topics, I consider it most professional to work together, regardless of all other political divisions. No, it doesn't cancel the political divisions, no, it doesn't make us part of any coalitions, and yes, it just means we're doing our job, which we're being paid for by the sovereign. [[Applause from DB.]] In essence, I will try to respond on the basis of what the Commission had as a discussion yesterday, to the clearest points of dispute about this decision. Is the so-called French proposal good, that is, the proposal of the French Presidency, for Bulgaria? It's good, it's good! This has also been stated by the Foreign Minister repeatedly and clearly, for which I thank her, and by President Radev, and by all experts and observers on this subject. If you don't trust experts and politicians now, listen to what they say in Skopje. Listen to what they say in Skopje about this proposal, because this is the clearest indication of whether this proposal protects the Bulgarian national interest. When someone comes out here and says that this proposal does not protect the Bulgarian national interest, order the IMRO rally in Skopje and join them because they say otherwise. [[Applause from DB.]] They say that it protects the Bulgarian national interest to such an extent that it is absolutely unacceptable for them, even when it comes to the question of whether Macedonia will get the opportunity to join the European Union. In other words, balanced against Macedonia's interest, this proposal so defends our national interest that it is unacceptable, says Macedonia's prime minister. This is the simplest way for me to explain what's going on. Get to the point. The other criticism, which is said: 'Ama', in fact, we must wait for Macedonia to meet our demands 100% and only then proceed to the negotiations with it. 'See, the logic itself to use the EU's negotiations as an instrument of pressure on colleagues in Skopje, in order to get them to fulfil the commitments under the bilateral treaty, contains in itself the understanding that the strongest instrument of pressure is the process of negotiations. Passing relatively soon, Bulgaria knows this, our generation remembers it well, in the process of negotiations. It was then that moment when Bulgaria made the biggest reforms, forced or convinced, or motivated, or motivated by the conditions that were put to it in the framework of this negotiation process. There is no greater instrument for transformation than the pre-accession process. This has been proven many times and we know it. I would very much like us to be able to change at the same pace and at the same political focus as we did in that period because of our own consents, but we can't even talk. So the logic of the entire construction of our political goal.. to use the veto and negotiation process to get our goals met is being implemented at this time with this decision. Bulgaria does not lift the veto, Bulgaria strengthens the power of its veto because from now on every moment when the Republic of Northern Macedonia does not fulfil the specific commitments that it has already undertaken not only in bilateral relations between Bulgaria and Northern Macedonia, but as a candidate member before the European Union, the veto they will need, the suspension of the negotiations they will have will be with the power of the entire European family behind Bulgaria, and this must be understood very well. I want to tell you that, for example, Skopje is now talking about how they will not change the Constitution. If they do not change the Constitution, they will not see negotiations and this becomes clear and absolutely unique from the so-called French proposal. Remember Turkey, Turkey is also negotiating. What's the progress, where are these negotiations? This is an opportunity for Bulgaria to turn a two-sided problem into a problem which it has incorporated, which has included on the agenda of its European family and can now put it with all the power of the European family and its institutions. It is said: is it well enough included in the various institutions?! Therefore, the text that we propose says to use equally both the negotiating framework and the Council's decisions, where Bulgaria is directly involved, so that we can really be as flexible as possible. He asks: will we allow in any way to change the Constitution, to distinguish between the representatives of the Bulgarian people and the representatives of the other nationalities that are mentioned there?! No, the decision we propose contains a very clear text in which no inequality will be allowed, no nuance with regard to our fellow citizens and compatriots in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. This is an absolutely ironic condition without which Macedonia will not be able to negotiate with the European Union. This is now guaranteed not only by our veto, it is guaranteed by the guarantees of all European institutions, they are behind our interest. And that in some sense is perhaps even the most important thing that happens these days. There's an argument that you see, it's all happening too fast. Anyone who has observed the making, the making of such decisions within the European Union knows that these decisions are being made at the last minute. We are talking about projects for collective decision-making that are slow and difficult to reconcile. Yes, we have missed the opportunity in recent months, while the Bulgarian diplomacy and the Bulgarian government worked to prepare these solutions, to have a debate on the substance, to inform the public about what goals we actually set, how we actually intend to achieve them and where things are going. We dealt with conspiracy theories and attacks amongst ourselves was not dignified. But I would like to say to my fellow Members who will refer to the argument with time. We do not have time to take our time, because it has been made clear by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and anyone who has any insight into this process knows it: The French Presidency is that window of opportunity in which we can take advantage of this proposal. It ends in a few days. The political window will close, there is no other member with this influence and with this commitment to the Bulgarian interest, which will set such conditions and offer such an offer, as is said in a simpler language, of Bulgaria. As soon as the French Presidency is complete, the political conditions in which we can receive such proposals disappear. Anyone who opposes the vote now takes the risk I will not talk about national crimes, but we will miss an extremely important chance to really get a high degree of guarantee for our interests and for our fellow citizens in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, which is very important. After all, we must be able to take this decision responsibly as politicians here precisely because we are the MPs. I want to say one more thing. In our interest, it is not just in our bilateral relations to achieve the objectives we have set out for ourselves, the claims we have for Northern Macedonia. Our interest is no less important. After all, the Western Balkans, Albania and northern Macedonia will receive a European perspective. It's our interest. It is our interest to use the opportunity that opens up with this structure, within which we have integrated our demands with the negotiation process to make a much wider policy with regard to the Republic of Northern Macedonia. To apply a much wider range of policies: cultural education, media, related to establishing real connectivity between the two societies, overcoming all those traumatic divisions which in the past 100 years or 110 years, as Mr. Kostadinov reminded us in his declaration, all those divisions that were painfully caused to these two societies. After all, the best way in which we can get back together today in the 21st century is to become part of the European family. So everyone who's been in Europe knows this space where injuries are really overcome, people talk and communicate, families are together, there are no limits. That is what we want for both societies, that is what we can achieve, and that is what we will decide today. I would like to call on even those who, perhaps for some political, election reasons, will not join this agreement: understand and know that we are doing the right thing. I am convinced of this and thank anyone who will support this decision. I thank all the importers of proposals in this direction and Bulgarian diplomacy. After the discussion is over, I'll take the floor to say thanks again. Just let me make two editorial proposals that are agreed with the Foreign Ministry. They're technically, but to be sure. In the last indent of page 2 the text shall become a reference to the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation from 2017 and the minutes of the meetings of the Joint Intergovernmental Committee under art. 12 under this treaty in the negotiating framework............... this is the moment when we include our bilateral issues on the European agenda. Excuse me, I am continuing the editing:...in connection with the approval by the Council of the European Union of the common positions on intergovernmental conferences European Union The second edition is the last one I propose. In the last paragraph to specify and instead of the wonderful word finalisation, to become the signature of a minutes of the second meeting of the Mixed Intergovernmental Commission under art. 12 of the Treaty, so that it is clear what document we are talking about. The Foreign Ministry made it clear yesterday: we do not have the time! The moment of need to deliver on this good proposal on an evaluation of the Foreign Ministry is now, otherwise we miss it. In order for the Foreign Ministry to proceed to the signing of the bilateral protocol, it needs our political decision to give the power of the National Assembly to complete the process. Now's the time or we're missing the birdie. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion on the subject. First recorded is Yordan Tsonev. [[Heckling]] You're giving up. Okay, Mr. Karadaye, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u32	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! The position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is clear since the dawn of democracy in Bulgaria on this topic. Two models for solving interethnic conflicts and problems have been established since the fall of the communist regime in Bulgaria in the Balkans. For better or worse in the Balkans, we live in a mosaic of ethnicities. In this way, our national countries have also formed that our national policies have forced us and put us in a situation to live with the feeling that everyone is bordering on themselves. But we, at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, have been pursuing a policy for 32 years, not for opposition, but for unity. In order to be able to overcome the layered historical differences that, in most cases, we use them for opposition, we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we believe that in order for there to be peace, stability and security in the Balkans, we must join common alliances, common values alliances, such as NATO and the European Union. This is what we did for Bulgaria. More 1991 of this tribune our Honorary President Dr. Ahmed Dogan set the direction and objectives of Bulgaria, namely membership in the European Union and NATO. In the same way, led by the philosophy of unity and good neighbourly relations, we have always shared, and it has been consistent in this position that the Balkans should join common unions, not build walls among ourselves, but remove barriers. This also happened on the specific topic, on specific issues, which, in one way or another, the two countries - the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Bulgaria - had to solve them in recent years. This has been our position since 2017 and 2018 and 2019 and so far. We now have a good chance to take a big step in this direction, because we think all Balkan countries would be good to be members of NATO and the European Union. As long as the Balkans have problems, Europe will have problems. This issue is not only ours, it is also European and now we have the chance to take a big step. Not to use these topics for separation and opposition within the society in Bulgaria, not to use these topics for division and opposition between the neighbours, but to take the chance of unification of the value union in the Euro-Atlantic alliances. And that's why what the executive didn't do for the last year or the last six months mostly, because instead of promising, he had to make the necessary action. Besides, the last days of the French Presidency, even after the proposal for a negotiating framework was made, instead of speaking, it was necessary for the executive to do the necessary actions to submit the topic for consideration to the National Assembly. It has not been done, and that is why we, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, have decided to take our responsibility this time as well and to bring the topic of consideration to the National Assembly at the first possible political moment. A moment in which not to mix this topic with other topics, because this topic is very important. Do not mix this topic with the subject of the fall of the government, because this government is dropping itself. This coalition, so diverse and creative and valuable, could not contain this majority in time. And in order not to mix these two topics, we decided that after the vote we should immediately put this topic on the agenda of the National Assembly and society. From now on, I would like to thank everyone who has come to the idea that this issue must find a solution now and not be postponed. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u33	Thank you to Mr. Karadaye. Are there lines? I can't see. The next recorded speech by Dr. Mihaylov from the BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, dear Bulgarian citizens, I am sure that many of you are watching us right now. I want to turn to each of us, to our hearts, to our memories, to everything that connects us to history, to Europe and to the truth. Undoubtedly, the proposal, which was broadcast by the European Commission during the French Presidency, is the most positive and protective of the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. There's no one in this room who can say otherwise. But there are many outside this room and in this room that can rightly ask: are not the protocols part of the structure of the negotiations that were mentioned not being signed by both parties? Is it possible that when one party that wants to be invited is currently acting in a difficult, disrespectful way towards the country that would possibly agree to begin negotiations that literally kicks on the knuckles this country, which is her sister historically and irreversibly, which set fire to the Cultural House of the Bulgarians in Bitola, which defiled hundreds of monuments whose prime minister stood yesterday and said that this is unacceptable for the Republic of Northern Macedonia? And I would like to ask here my esteemed Mr. Ivanov, who represented with a very serious authority and with a very serious logic the arguments of the European Commission's proposal: how will this end when the other side is not ready to accept these conditions? [[Heckling]] They're not going to start negotiations. Someone in this room is in charge. Then the proposal, which was given a week ago and which concerns an essential part of our interstate relations, should it be in this fast, too fast way to be beaten in parliament when, one of you said here, I think it was Mr. Atanasov, every Bulgarian family has its root in Macedonia, every Bulgarian family. This is not a matter of history, honourable gentlemen of the House. This is a matter of honor for Bulgaria. I do not want to go back in history and remind you of how many mistakes have been made in relations with our brothers and sisters in Macedonia since the Liberation. I would just like to remind you that the first Bulgarian mayor of Bansko took office in 1911, and Bulgaria was released in 1878. I will not remind you of the events of 1945. I will not remind you that Bulgaria was the first country to admit it then called the Republic of Macedonia. That Bulgaria was the initiator of inclusion in the Balkans. I would also like to respond to all those here who threw the government of the state that it did not put any effort into it. In these six months of operational management of Bulgaria, his Council of Ministers and his Prime Minister literally made a shuttle to Macedonia and to the European Union, trying to change the attitude of the other side. But this was not accepted with open arms by our friends from the Republic of Northern Macedonia. And I do not see as a Bulgarian, as a Bulgarian politician what reason the Bulgarian Parliament now has to proceed to this action when the other side at least does not accept this proposal as adequate. All arguments that this should be done right now do not fit the honour and dignity of the Bulgarian nation. Everyone must vote on conscience, but his conscience is written in the Constitution, he is written in his oath, and the oath is to work entirely in the interests of the state. Therefore, the Bulgarian Socialist Party cannot support, independently, I am not talking about the proposals of the colleagues from the DPS and GERB, they are absolutely unacceptable to us, the proposal of "Democratic Bulgaria", which is the closest to our ideas for solving the problem and nevertheless does not solve it. That's what we said yesterday at the Foreign Commission, and that's what we're going to declare today. And every forced order does not honor the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u35	Thank you to Dr. Mihailov. Dr. Mihailov, I had just made a decision, you're starting to hesitate me. Mr. Hristo Ivanov the replica.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u36	Because the honourable Dr. Mihailov asked me a question, to answer it. Our attitude towards these actions and other actions in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, which you have listed, is clearly and unambiguously condemned. For us there is no doubt that the Republic of Northern Macedonia has a long way to go to the truth, a long way to the truth. She has a long way to go. Today, however, our decision here allows us to say that this effort for them is not just an effort that a country This is a question already, after this decision, of fulfilling a European standard. This is now a matter of belonging to the European family on their part, because good neighbourliness, respect for people's freedoms and rights, the pursuit of truth, all of these are fundamental values of the European Union, and today we will link our interests, our demands with these fundamental values of our European family. And for a reason, it was no accident that France and President Macron were so strong behind our interests. Don't talk about hope! It's very easy this rhetoric, because this isn't about me or anyone else. Bulgarian diplomacy, politicians from various political parties during this period have worked for this effort. Representatives of your parliamentary group have worked, and I thank them very much. This result may come at the last moment because this is what happens in these negotiations, but it is something that we have worked for for a very long time and have been striving for. It's nothing new and nothing unknown. What's new and unknown is that it's so good. And, yes, we need to be ready to make a decision quickly, because then we're gonna miss it. It is your right to consider that the time is not sufficient for an appropriate public discussion. And you're going to be right. Those are the conditions, but sometimes you have to choose between reality and not just between desires. So I would like to say clearly: the Republic of Northern Macedonia, from this decision, will know that it is not only fulfilling Bulgaria's request, it must choose whether it wants to be a member of the European family with us or not. This is the choice before them and if they do not move towards this choice, there will be no negotiations. That's it, thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u37	Are there any other lines to Dr. Mihailov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Honourable Professor. Mihailov, you have had a very strong and very emotional statement. I agree with a lot of what you said. This is a very important issue for all of us, a very emotional question for all of us. But I wish beyond emotions we could get into a little bit of concrete about what this proposal is saying and that rather a lot of these emotions might not be so negative if we saw what it actually says in this proposal. One of the things is entering the Constitution, and no one has explained it so far, and I would very much like to explain what's going in. The entry of the Bulgarian people into the Constitution of Macedonia. This means practical participation of people with Bulgarian national self-consciousness in the rule of the Republic of Macedonia, so to speak, albeit in limited form, through participation in two committees established at the National Assembly of the Republic. One in their Constitution is a Committee of Rabbits and the other is a Council of International Benefits, so-called. And the other thing that's specific again, Professor. Mihailov, it is good to talk, is that no matter what happens to the process now, Bulgaria will be able to stop it at any time, if it is not, so to say. And finally, perhaps the most important thing that I think emotionally is the most important thing for us. In the proposal there is also an opportunity to reveal and obtain documents that clearly demonstrate what happened to the Bulgarians in Titova Yugoslavia, which may be one of the most important things that will bring us peace on this issue. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u39	Here's a third line. And by the time you get to the stands, I'll take it as a Russian to greet the balcony the children of Ruse who are here today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mihailov, a very emotional statement. We often use a metaphor when talking about the people who remained outside our country that Mother Bulgaria should help them. My question is, when the prodigal son rejects his mother, does the mother have to stop looking for a way to him? Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u41	Dear Dr. Mihaylov, you have the opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You have to be very careful with metaphors from the platform of an organ such as the National Assembly, because calling someone a prodigal son can have very severe consequences. First I have to respond to my truly respected Mr. Ivanov. Bulgaria has proved and joined its common human values with its accession to the European Union. Since then, it has successfully defended them and the remark and thanks that people from the Bulgarian Socialist Party have cooperated with this is true, they have assisted the European Union's policy to strengthen it on the Balkans and the inclusion of all Balkan countries to the European Union, but under the conditions they have fulfilled. Under conditions fulfilled by them, which so far not only is not available, because Mr. Atanasov told me that the children are watching us, but for the children we should be at the height of their parents when we speak from this platform. If these conditions are not met, it is natural that Bulgaria must make an effort in order to be able together with the applicant country to achieve success and to step together to open the negotiating framework. The other is one hand, not taking it from the other side and locking the whole process. That won't bring us much positive. There is something else I would like to warn you about. A decision of the European Union is being prepared for a qualified majority in decision-making on foreign policy issues, and it is not for those who offer this decision lightly now to ignore this opportunity in the coming years. This is mainly about the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian national interests. I quite calmly and clearly share it with you, so we must be extremely careful, extremely balanced in all our love, true love for our friends from the Republic of Northern Macedonia, we must be extremely precise and extremely careful. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u43	Thank you, Dr. Mikhailov. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To you: I ask you to follow this House not to make suggestions that are highly false, to say that it is possible to decide on the issue of Macedonia by qualified majority. This is indeed a proposal that exists, and as far as I know, it is not entirely supported by Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u45	Thank you. We will see what the Council of the European Union decides. The next recorded statement is Mrs. Belobradova. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today is a memorable day! Today, we will vote on the draft decision for expressing Bulgaria's position on the proposal of the French Presidency proposed by "Democratic Bulgaria" as only possible. For two and a half years this has been a key topic not only for bilateral relations, but for the entire European Union and for me as a Bulgarian citizen. In the past time Bulgaria managed to resist the external and internal pressure and to clarify its position. After all, our voice was heard and understood in Europe. In universal opinion, this is the best we have had so far, and it is a prerequisite for us to be able to defend our position with dignity and conviction by receiving European guarantees for our request. Bulgaria's cause is already a common European cause, because our conditions are no longer subject only to bilateral treaties, but will enter the negotiating framework, as part of them will be met on condition even before the negotiation process begins. With the draft decision of "Democratic Bulgaria" the French proposal is essentially enhanced so that the Bulgarian national interests are truly well protected. It will guarantee not only the rights of the Bulgarians in Northern Macedonia, but also the issues of common history and our position on the language, which are no less important. This is an historic moment. This is the first step in a long process in which the Republic of Northern Macedonia and I will finally be able to be together in the European Union as two free democratic and most friendly countries. I believe this is what Gotse Delchev and the thousands of other revolutionaries would welcome. I thank all the Bulgarians in this House who will support the proposal! Thanks to everyone who worked on it. Everyone should vote by conscience, as Professor Mihailov said, and I will gladly vote by conscience. I also thank the Bulgarians, all Bulgarians in the Republic of Northern Macedonia! Thank you, my friends, for your firmness, for your courage and patience! Thank you. [[Unique applause from DB and we continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u47	Thank you to Mrs. Belobradova. You want a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u48	Line, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u49	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Belobradova and many others bravely and irresponsiblely said so "This was the best proposal, as if this was Bulgaria's request. Yesterday in committee, the Foreign Minister made it clear that this proposal against the background of others is the best, but also clearly stated that it differs and does not cover Bulgaria's demands expressed in the decision of the previous National Assembly, as well as in the position that was expressed by all parties, including the DBs, GERB, the PPs and the DPS of the Coalition Council with the President. There is a difference between each proposal against the background of the previous proposal with a move forward is better, but it, each one, does not cover Bulgaria's request. Not one! Including French! So don't hide behind half a sentence from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Secondly, Macron said something that everyone here is pretending to be crazy that it wasn't a French proposal, there was no pressure, and I don't know what. Yesterday Macron said in a straight text, I quote it: "We have put very strong pressure on Bulgaria in recent months. And, secondly, I would like to congratulate Prime Minister Petkov, he did everything. Since the beginning of the year we have said that Prime Minister Petkov is working against the decisions of the Bulgarian people, against the Bulgarian position, against the Bulgarian attitudes and now even if you vote this in the Chamber, you will have no national agreement, you will have no public support. Today is a disgraceful day for Bulgaria because, as always, MPs will be national traitors.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u51	A line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u52	Mrs. Belobradova, because you weren't on the committee yesterday, I'm making a line to assist you in Mr. Yordanov's response. I know so destructive anger, its destructive anger, and I know that ultimately we always come to the conclusion that we have to keep working. And I wish from the political daily attacks to really separate this important thing that the Bulgarian diplomacy has achieved, including Minister Genchovska, and not to burn it in the flames of our conjuncture momentary confrontations here, which, I say again, will one day wake up sober and calm and we will have to watch as we proceed. But get to the point. What the minister said yesterday is that there is a need for the National Assembly to rule, including because the proposal of the French Presidency deviates from the National Assembly's declaration. What is very important for Bulgarian citizens to know: the deviation is the addition of the condition for a change in the Constitution, i.e. it is not present in the Declaration of the National Assembly, it builds on the Bulgarian position, strengthens it to a great extent and makes it actually so strong from the perspective of the European Union. [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] So the deviation will be formally available, but it consists in the upgrade and enhancement of the Bulgarian position - something for which the French proposal briefly reports. Thank you. [[(Unique applause by.. We continue the Change...........................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Belobradova, please explain to Mr. Yordanov how it is that this special policy for different policies, for the surrender of national interest, how it led to the best solution that has ever been on the table, which has been confirmed by everyone, including the reactions of the Macedonian country. Thank you. [[(Reply of National Representative Toshko Yordanov:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u55	Thank you. Mrs. Belobradova, the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u56	Dear colleagues, the main problem here is that once again the national interest was a cause for speculation. These two words of interest are used by everyone as requested, but the fact is that the national interest today will be protected within the framework of our proposal. To be honest, there are no real arguments from anyone about this, even colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party acknowledged it. As for the often used phrases as a traitor, I personally as a Bulgarian citizen and as a representative of the National Assembly would call for these memorable remarks, which created a very small domestic scandal, to be made public in order to actually see who speculates with the national interest. In this sense, I will use the duplicate again to thank all my colleagues who will really support the national interest, and I will thank everyone who stops speculating on it, because in the end after 30 years we will have to live with the decision we make and know that this decision is really in the interests of Bulgaria and not in the interests of the next elections and the next elections. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u57	Mr. Georgiev, do you have a procedure? Come on in, let's see if it's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u58	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to make a remark to the MPs when they come out and say such things that memorable notes were a domestic scandal. These are official documents that clearly show exactly what has been spoken and agreed with regard to Macedonia. We heard from Mrs. Genchovska, the resignation minister himself, how our Bulgarian Prime Minister in quotes agreed with Commissioner Varhei, despite Bulgaria's official position, expressed by documents and unchanged, despite the official position of the Foreign Ministry, despite the huge approval of this official position of the Bulgarian people, he single-handedly, despite the foreign ministry, agreed with Commissioner Varhei for raising the veto and circumventing the Bulgarian national interest...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u59	Look, this isn't a procedure, to tell you the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u60	... And it's said to be a domestic scandal, and you're not making a remark. Make a note of such statements because we cannot say a domestic scandal about things that concern the Bulgarian national interest, the behavior of institutions and personalities such as the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u61	This is not a procedure. Sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u62	It is not acceptable to say "bit scandal" and you should make a remark about such statements. How much clearer and concrete can I say this? Also, the tossing of Members of the House, who are disrespectful, should also be made a remark. Please do not show double archin in relation to the opposition and the representatives of the Euro-Atlantic coalition in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u63	Mr. Georgiev, I read the note in question, but from where I am, I cannot answer you, unfortunately. The next recorded statement is Mr. Rumen Hristov. I would like to inform the House that there have been nine speeches recorded. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you have heard from the chairman of the GERB-SDZ parliamentary group, we will support the proposal to launch negotiations between northern Macedonia and Albania for accession to the European Union. Did we make that decision easily? Of course not. Politics often have to make tough decisions and young colleagues need to know that this is something that will follow them throughout their political life, political career. However, these proposals are important, visionary, and that is why we are called upon to take them. Would we lose to this proposal that we will support in the upcoming elections? Probably, but that does not mean that the best solution at this time should not be supported. Of course it's not the best. We also know that the good treaty is this treaty in which both sides are a little dissatisfied. There's no way one side can be very happy, and the other side isn't so happy. Could this offer be better for Bulgaria? Probably could have, but we wouldn't have gotten to him. In addition, we have the guarantees that the European Union in the so-called French proposal gives Bulgaria with regard to our requirements. For me, however, as President of the Union of Democratic Forces, this is a debt that relates to the decision taken 30 years ago. Then Bulgaria first in the world recognised the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia as an independent state, recognised its independence. I would just stress that at the time the Chairman of the SDS was Mr. Philip Dimitrov and Prime Minister, the President of the Republic was Dr. Zhelev, President of the Parliament Mr. Savov, Foreign Minister Mr. Ganev, and so on. The decisions that need to be made, I say, are not easy and difficult. I want to tell you that there is not always a consensus in society. Do not think that when the decision to accept Bulgaria into NATO was made, it was easy. It will not be easy now, but I believe that voting in favour of this proposal is extremely important. Regardless of the contradictions that we have with our colleagues from "We are continuing the Change" I will vote with them with the clear awareness that this is good for Bulgaria and for the European Union. I thank in advance all those who will support it and hope that the European Union, the European democratic community, will continue to increase with other countries in the Western Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u65	And thank you, Mr. Christov. Here you go, Dr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, Mr. Hristov, I have always treated your reasonings with respect from this platform and sometimes I have allowed myself to correct you. I'll fill you in. Your decision is indeed visionary. You even misjudged your definition, you said you were going to vote with your colleagues at the PP. The motion for a resolution comes from DPS, GERB and Democratic Bulgaria. But I will tell you why you will vote on this proposal for a solution, of course. The theme "Macedonia" has been used in recent months. I regret that for such a sacred topic I will have to say it as a way of pressure and compromise of the government, regardless of the enormous efforts that this government has made to normalize and go along the way of the negotiation process on both sides.... both the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia. The Prime Minister has been accused of betraying national interest, including from your coalition. He didn't betray him, as you can see. It has been said that he has no power to take this decision, and today the representatives of a solid political force have just said that they have proposed to bring the issue into parliament where it is the place for its resolution. Isn't that right? I mean, nothing's wrong with the controls. There is only one problem, Mr. Hristov, your isolation can begin its end if you receive a simultaneous solution with one of the parties ruling so far. This is the Democratic Bulgaria and the PP. This is what you need from getting out of isolation, not that you're very interested in how this problem ends, but it will end up outside this room. We will not solve it, it is clear to everyone who will vote in a little conscience, but this is what you need. Indeed, this decision is visionary, but do not think that the Bulgarian nation does not see it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u67	Thank you, Dr. Mikhailov. Mr. Toshko Yordanov has the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's wonderful that it's on BNT, because it's nice to see who's who. Colleagues, I don't know if you know that a monkey remembers three minutes, then he doesn't remember. I am far from thinking that there are monkeys in this Chamber, I am far from that thought, but on this notorious Advisory Council for National Security, the proposal for the inclusion of Bulgarians in the Constitution of the Republic of Northern Macedonia was by the President and the only political power that supported this proposal was. Everyone else said no, everyone! I would like to turn from this tribune to the President to unveil this meeting to see exactly what the representatives of the other political forces said, to see what initial draft there was for a statement and how Prime Minister Kiril Petkov and the President argued and who with what arguments and who defended what thesis. I ask the President to decipher himself because I still believe that there are no monkeys in this room, which means that they remember what they have done and to see who has worked even then against the national interest of Bulgaria. And stop making the best offer to hide behind that phrase, because you clearly don't understand. I'll give you an example. Imagine a car with no engine, no tires, no headlights, and then you get pushed around by a car with headlights and tires, but without an engine. To give you the best offer! I ask the President to unscramble this Advisory Council if you are not ashamed of everyone here to read what you have been saying at the head of Kiro just Kiro, as they say.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u69	Is there a third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The debate went very well this morning and I thank Mr. Kostadinov for giving a tone for the good conduct of this debate. I ask the colleagues who decide to destroy the idea of a good debate that is important to the Bulgarian diplomacy, important to the Bulgarian Parliament, let them think a little before they come out here on the stand. Mr. Hristov, in support of what you said and with gratitude that you went back a little bit to remind the history of the discussion with regard to Macedonia, I will take you back a little more. Nearly 140 years ago Stefan Stambolov said Macedonia will become the tomb of Bulgaria. We have the chance to refute this statement, which, by the way, history has repeatedly confirmed with the murder of Stefan Stambolov and with the murder of Alexander Stamboliiski, who are still involved in this part of Bulgaria. The proposal of the French Presidency is really good and perhaps this is the best that has been made for Bulgaria. Evidence of this is yesterday's reaction by the Prime Minister of Macedonia. Colleagues, I will personally vote for.. I declare it very responsible, with the awareness that what I am saying is broadcast to the whole of Bulgaria. I will vote for because all the debates that have been made in relation to the Bulgarian position, I see them in the French Presidency in the Protocol, the Framework Position. So pretty sure. Mr. Hristov, if you have anything to add from the negotiation process so far, please say it with the idea of strengthening the Bulgarian position. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u71	Mr. Hristov, you have the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dr. Mihailov, what I have said is that on national, important topics that concern the interest of Bulgarian citizens, we have no problem voting with the Political Party. We are continuing the Change which we voted for a vote of mistrust just a while ago. The fact that colleagues from the House of Rights and Freedoms, from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria and GERB-SDS have submitted a proposal, I am aware, but I have made this distinction precisely from this point of view that we could in this Parliament and in the following parliaments look for important topics for society to receive support from much of this House. Otherwise, I cannot answer Mr. Yordanov because I have not attended this advisory council. As for the emotional speech of our colleague from.. We continue the Change. Indeed, Macedonia is a pain for Bulgaria. As the President of the UDF said, Mr. Petar Stoyanov: "This is the most romantic part of the Bulgarian history."But now we are forced to talk about the pragmatic part between Bulgaria and Northern Macedonia. I will not comment here and yesterday on Edi Rama's statement regarding Bulgaria. You see the pressure. Yes, there must also be incentives from the outside, but we are convinced, I am convinced, that we will vote for this start of negotiations with Northern Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u73	Do you want a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is to extend the time of this session to the vote, etc. 3, then the parliamentary control to continue again for three hours, as is the Programme. The reasons for this are that t. 3 is very important for start-ups that are in a growth phase, and I, as a former representative of the start-up society, believe that this is very important for these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u75	That is to say, you propose that we extend the work of Parliament to the legislative part until the end of the item. 3, and then parliamentary control. Got it. Is there a reverse offer? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to extend the working hours of the legislative part and not until the end of this paragraph. 3 proceed to parliamentary control. They voted 199 MPs: 187, against 12, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We continue the discussion on the first point. The next person to speak is Mr. Kostadin Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u76	Mr. Chairman, I will begin my speech with a title from the "24 hours" today. The title is this: "Makron: We have put a lot of pressure on Bulgaria." It is obvious that the solution that is now being proposed here is not a solution that is the result of a Bulgarian political compromise. It is obvious that we are talking about a foreign compromise, a Euro-Atlantic compromise, which collects the otherwise uncollectable parties that voted yesterday on a no-confidence vote, are now gathering friendly and explaining how they do so in the name of the Bulgarian national interest. Naturally, this is something that is not even worth commenting on. People who are currently seeing and watching us live are fully aware: it is about a solution that is being offered under foreign pressure, and it is, by the way, pressure that is not hiding, pressure that is prominent, pressure that is being displayed in the media. By the way, people who exercise it boast about it because Macron's goal is not to solve the Bulgarian national issue, problem or anything else. Macron's goal is to solve his internal political problems because he recently lost the left and right elections at the same time, because Macron ends the French Presidency and has to come out with some foreign policy medal to show victory. At the time, if Austro-Hungary boasted of something, she boasted that the only victories she could achieve were on the Balkan Peninsula, because, as Franz Joseph said: By the way, humiliating is different. The humiliating thing is that not yesterday, but the other day Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama took the liberty of making an extremely nasty statement regarding Bulgaria, passing the limits of good tone not, but it is a direct insult to us, I will not even say it, because I do not want this tribune here to repeat insulting statements about our country. However, there was no reaction from Bulgaria. At least from the best man's shame they should have called the Albanian ambassador, at least that's what they should have done. Now, it is understandable that the government is already leaving, but that's as far as there shouldn't be neglect of the Bulgarian national interest and we shouldn't allow it, because now that you're sorry, Albania is exercising on our behalf, consider how far we've brought it with regard to our foreign policy influence. And this is a country that is not a member of the European Union. She's holding us to a tone like we're outside, they're inside, and we're almost the ones who have to pray to them. All of this is indicative of the bottom to which the Bulgarian policy has reached at present, the bottom to which the Bulgarian state has reached. Nobody takes us seriously. The veto of the negotiation process was something that showed courage and character in Bulgarian politics. And by the way, it was something that until the other day was consensual, only three days ago it turned out that it wasn't so.. GERB changed their position. Why? They know best. The fact is, however, that what they said last week is not what they are saying now. The fact is that a new absolutely unprincipled coalition is currently being formed with regard to Macedonia, which includes four formations. Let's tell them who they are "Democratic Bulgaria" and "DPS," "GERB" and "We continue the Change." From this point of view, because it was said and another false news, I want to say the following thing: it should not be said that if you see it, it is the best deal. Guys, Macedonia and I can't make a deal. For Macedonia, as many times as we've gone to make deals, we've always ended up with a national disaster. It's been like this every time. Our first national disaster is because we are going to share Macedonia with Serbia, but let's not go to history class, that I can talk until tomorrow. From this point of view, it is absolutely criminal to say that you see, it was a good deal, because it was the best offer, because, you see, we would have had the opportunity to veto yet. That's a lie! And let me say this for the people who are watching, this same French President Macron is the initiator of introducing a reform in the European Union to remove the veto so that decisions can already be taken by qualified majority. In other words, next year, just at this time, we can understand that decisions in the Union will no longer be taken unanimously, but by a qualified majority of two thirds. We and two other countries are opposed, however, which puts on the agenda the very important issue: this membership, in this form of the European Union, is it beneficial for the Bulgarian national interest? I am putting it on the topic now, it is yet to be commented in society, because we Bulgarians do not remember, as said here before Toshko Yordanov, we do not remember as monkeys three minutes. We remember a lot more than that. On the subject. All that was said how Macedonia was against, the Macedonian Prime Minister was against, of course it would be against. There has been a campaign going on for two years now that any agreement with Bulgaria will be a crime against Macedonian interest. It doesn't matter what it is, any of it. Why? Because there the Serbs have been controlling the services and the media for 30 years. Serbia has no interest in Macedonia getting close to Bulgaria in any form. That's the truth. It's the truth! And whatever agreement is going to be rejected, it doesn't matter what it is, and what we have to say, we don't say it, we don't insist on it. What we have to say is one thing, and it is this: Macedonia is Bulgaria, Bulgaria is Macedonia. Macedonia is Thrace, Macedonia is Dobrudja, Bulgaria is Macedonia and we should never allow the Bulgarian national interest to be betrayed because two national catastrophes we suffered because our Bulgarian elite sold and betrayed Macedonia. [[The national representatives of the ARCHER hold before them sheets with the inscription "Macedonia" is Bulgaria.]] Let's not get into a third national disaster. Thank you. [[On the balcony visitors hold posters with the inscription "Macedonia" is Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u77	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. I'm really asking you to put those posters down on the balcony first. Otherwise, I'll have the Quaestors take you out. Colleagues, please, you too! Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Mitev, then Mr. Hristo Ivanov, then Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today is a great day for a Macedonian wedding! The bride is Russia, and the dowry is in shovels. [[Laughter]] Mr. Kostadinov started with a quote of an article by the "24 hours" and now I would like to make a quote with an article by the "24 hours" "all Bulgarian citizens can see it," the quote is: "The truth about Northern Macedonia: Kiril Petkov changed the European Union." [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Bulgaria has never, ever had a better proposal in which the European Union will defend the Bulgarian position. And when we talk about the bottom, for me, the biggest bottom I saw was growing up and the DPS together waving flags at the protest and shaking hands. Thank you. It's the biggest bottom. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u79	Mr. Hristo Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, let us welcome the citizens who are here to participate and watch this important debate. Second of all, a few things. Mr. Kostadinov, Bulgaria, I must tell you, I hope, and I think it is a mature and serious country. Yes, on us, on our diplomacy, on our institutions is exerting daily pressure in various directions. That's how it is on the international stage, there are different interests. These interests are protected, protected by all means. It is not the question whether pressure has been put on Bulgaria, the question is whether we have succumbed to this pressure and have made a compromise that is somehow unacceptable to us. This is the discussion here today. Yes, the Bulgarian position with regard to the veto for the start of negotiations on Northern Macedonia has created serious problems and it is causing serious problems for us too, because, again, this follows from your speech. We have an interest in Macedonia coming closer to the European Union and coming out of Serbian orbit, because otherwise what we do to what you yourself say: we leave it there in Serbian orbit. We had to find a solution. What we are voting on today is a good decision, so let us not speculate with one or another of Macron's phrases, but see what we have in front of us. That's a good decision. I fully agree with you on two other things you said. Your assessment of Eddie Rama's fairy tales, which must be rejected decisively by this tribune. Someone can't afford to talk about Bulgaria like that. And the other thing you said: Bulgaria and Macedonia and Macedonia and Bulgaria. Yes, and this will happen in the European Union, because that is precisely the logic of the European family to be together. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u81	Mr. Karadaye, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, we saw Mr. Macron yesterday. The one thing I absolutely want to say is that not only on the part of Mr Macron or France, or anyone, but there was no pressure on us on the DPS! Moreover, I said earlier in my speech: this is our consistent policy since the dawn of democracy so far. Mr. Macron only thanked for the consistent policy of the DPS, including the introduction of the proposal to lift the veto by Bulgaria to unblock the negotiation process, which does not mean that what is enshrined in the Agreement will not be implemented, which does not necessarily mean membership from now on. The point is to unblock the negotiation process. This thing, by the way, should have been done by the executive authority, the Council of Ministers. But unfortunately... We have made the assessment of this government, and it is that it is the worst, most incompetent and most incompetent government in the last 32 years in Bulgaria. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we do not need to use every subject for division in society. Prosperity has when society is united. What better thing would there be not only the DPS with other parliamentary groups, but any other parliamentary group united on a specific topic? What would be better for Bulgaria at all, to have common national goals to follow regardless of our political differences and biases? So our call is to unite, to have common goals, not to search for any dividing lines! I hope we can all have the power to unite, and unification comes after dialogue. The dialogue must begin first. Thank you, I'm sorry. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u83	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Mr. Kostadinov, you have the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u84	Mr. Chairman, on the topic of unification, which Mr. Karadye has been talking about here, I think it is already going within the EU family of ALDE, where, as I understand it, we continue the Change is willing to enter where you are from the DPS. [[(Reply from the National Representative Iskren Mitev: It is a lie!]] That is, let's say for the people who are now watching that in a common European formation ALDE will be a member of the DPS, which have been there for I don't know how many years already, and accordingly we are continuing the Change. [[Applause from ARGUING.]] I mean, there's gonna be a nice European liberal wedding. Regarding the other things that were said. Mr. Ivanov, yesterday we spoke about what you said at the Board of Presidents. I was not at the Board of Presidents yesterday about talking to the French Ambassador. Of course, your honor makes it clear that you said that you knew you had no right to do this, but that you still acted on your own initiative. We have already said our assessment of this thing.. we believe that this is high treason. I'm saying it from this high tribune. But there's something else. I had the opportunity in an informal very short dialogue with you to ask you the following: Do you think it is normal to talk about topics concerning the domestic policy of Bulgaria and the foreign policy interests of our country, with a foreign ambassador? This isn't serious! Anything can be said about you, but you can't say you're a fool. From this point of view, you don't need to repeat things that you don't even believe in yourself. It is wrong and should not put any internal political and foreign policy issue to comment with other ambassadors. Imagine that someone else here is talking to another ambassador, let's say Russian. You know what's gonna happen?! So this is absolutely unacceptable whether it's French, Russian, Turkish, American or whatever else! I suspect you've spoken to the French ambassador, because, as far as I know, the American may be in the process of tightening the suitcases, so he may not have had the opportunity to pay attention to you. But you've said something else, and I very much agree that you share the view of Macedonia being Bulgaria. I'm glad we think alike about this, and I don't say it ironically. I'm sure you think so, too. The question is the roads, because if we think that we have one goal, what exactly will be the way we will get to it? You think that when we enter the European Union, we will unite. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Now I will use this tribune to raise the issue of another very serious problem that we have with Macedonia, but not with Vardarska or the recently known as North, but with Belomore Macedonia. Because of Belomorski Macedonia, the esteemed representatives of the Bulgarian people here, 50% of Macedonia is in Greece. This is Belomore Macedonia. There is a Bulgarian minority that is not spoken of in Greece. Between the 250 and 500 thousand Bulgarian minority has no elementary rights to bear Bulgarian names, there is no right to have a Bulgarian church, no right to have Bulgarian media, Bulgarian education, they are forbidden to speak in Bulgarian. I have been arrested in Greece twice for listening to Bulgarian music. And that, by the way, was four or five years ago. [[Noise and lines.]] I hear some calls here that I should have been shot. Mr. Chairman, maybe you didn't hear them? This is clear enough and indicative of the way in which a part of the Bulgarian national is addressed, in quotes, representation on the topic of the Bulgarian national problem. I set an example with Greece because we have been a member of the European Union since 2007, and we have no question solved with Greece on this issue, although there are cases where Bulgarians wanted local Bulgarians to be named after them by Bulgarian names and refused them. This shows clearly and categorically that the European Union is not a panacea for the solution of diseases and problems, especially when they are on the Balkan Peninsula. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll be done in ten seconds. The future of Bulgaria and Macedonia is undoubtedly a common state, Mr. Ivanov. That's why we all have to fight. So at first, I set an example for you on May 25, 1941. A common state of Bulgaria and Macedonia, not membership of the European Union. This will not solve our problem, because if it enters this form of Macedonia, Macedonian language will become official in the European Union and when one of us starts speaking in dialect, it will have to be explained to him that this is not Bulgarian, but Macedonian. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u85	Unfortunately, I can't answer that from the stands. Hristo Ivanov wants the floor for a personal explanation. I hope he'll incorporate what I think he will.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u86	Mr. Kostadinov, you weren't at the Conference of Presidents yesterday. You've been telling new fantasies since yesterday. They're letting you down. I have spoken many times with ambassadors of various European and other countries because I believe that, as a group president, as a representative of a political party, I have this obligation. I have always defended the Bulgarian national interest in the same way that I have done it publicly. It's part of a normal dialogue. I do not know if you have noticed, Mr. Kostadinov, there are some things in the Bulgarian Parliament that are called friendship groups. So parliament is a natural part of a country's foreign policy, of the external relations that sustain a country. Yesterday, the question that we had to resolve at the Conference of Presidents was how to assess the time we have in order to be able to design the programme and the Committee on External Relations and when to get this item on the agenda. I have consulted the French Presidency because the time and agenda of the French Presidency is precisely what we need to be able to take into account in order to be able to fit into this political window. I believe that I have done my job as always, and any speculation with this subject is absolutely absurd. By the way, I would also talk to the Russian ambassador and tell her that it is time to leave Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u87	The next recorded statement is Atanas Slavov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Why is the French proposal good, or the proposal of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, and the proposal made by the French Parliament for a decision of the National Assembly yesterday? It is good and they are good for one very simple reason. First, because they require the entry of Bulgarians in the Republic of Northern Macedonia as a state-owned people equal to other nationalities, and second, because they refer not only to abstract clauses of international treaties, but to the protocols of a joint intergovernmental commission under art. 12 of the Treaty on Good Neighborhood, Cooperation and Friendship. And in one of these protocols, which I had the opportunity to meet, except for King Samuel and the disputes relating to the past, we are also talking about the nearer past, colleagues. It's about the time of communist Yugoslavia. An exceptional condition in the protocol to be signed is the dissecration of the archives of the Communist Security Service to see who has abused, who has inquisitioned the Bulgarians in the Republic of Macedonia, then the Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Bulgaria's requirement to desecrate the archives to Northern Macedonia also has an opposite side, colleagues. And it is that we cannot afford light treatment to the archives of the communist services in Bulgaria. We cannot ask Macedonia to decipher its archives, and we can somehow constantly question the activities of our Committee on Files. This is a note that I'm closing in parentheses. Secondly, the draft decision is also a good proposal from the French Presidency, because it sets a high standard adopted at European level, protected by all Member States of the European Union. Here they heard that it wasn't all that we wanted more. Yes, we want much more and this much more we can achieve it if we can achieve it with our diplomacy in our bilateral relations, but we cannot expect 27 countries - 26 other than Bulgaria - to accept all our demands. We already have a precedent with the fact that bilateral problems are included in the negotiating framework. Here is the role of our institutions to show strength, to show courage and professionalism and to defend the Bulgarian national interest at an even higher level in bilateral relations. And a very important shade that's been missed over the past week. The Bulgarian Orthodox Church, colleagues, beat us to an institution. Because the Bulgarian Orthodox Church decided to lift schism with the Macedonian Orthodox Church, decided to return to a full canonical and eucharistic communion. After this was done by the Ecumenical Patriarchate and the Serbian Patriarchate, we are the third Patriarchate to make such a decision, and it is extremely important for the entire Orthodox world. So let the Bulgarian State today in the National Assembly carry out its historic mission in relation to the Republic of Northern Macedonia and in the protection of the Bulgarian national interest. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u89	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Slavov, why isn't the French proposal good? Firstly, the French proposal leaves an open door to the language and Macedonians will be able in any treaty with any country of the European Union and in any document they claim to speak and that it is written in Macedonian language, and there is no Macedonian language. And this has always been the official position of Bulgaria. I'm sorry, but to me, anyone who says otherwise is a national traitor, and that's in the so-called French proposal. Secondly, the historical problems, the rights of the Bulgarians, the language of hatred all this was introduced after the veto was lifted. After! Not to fulfil it before, as is the treaty between the two countries, and as is the position of that advisory council, which I will again tell the President: please decipher it to see what Kiro and the rest of the other political parties were talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u91	Mr. Yordanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u92	A call to the president, history, rights, a language of hatred, after the veto was lifted. Imagine a 20-year process of Macedonia's accession, 20 years of Bulgarians there can be crushed officially because they do not perform. Drama... since I've spoken to ambassadors too, Mr. Kostadinov, I've spoken to them and told them the opposite. And what they insisted on was to lift the veto. There is no great desire in the European Union to adopt Macedonia. He's willing to lift the veto. This is the battle. And Bulgaria's only strength in this situation, in this configuration of the European Union, is with the imposition of this veto. By lifting it, we're losing all control of the process. All of them! And you let the Bulgarians in Macedonia be crushed with the clear awareness that you are doing so. You can hide behind all kinds of beautiful phrases. Aman from internationalists. The problem with Macedonia is involved by internationalists. I'm running out of time, but you understand what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u93	Thank you. For a second line, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Slavov, in addition to agreeing with your arguments, as a man who lives quite close to the border with Macedonia, I have long contact with the community there and with culture. I would also express my personal opinion that the time frame in which this decision can be taken is extremely positive and in character, bearing in mind two things: firstly, that decisions are expected soon in the European Union to be taken by qualified majority, not consensus. So then, basically, whether the proposal is good or not, whether Bulgaria is firm with our position or not, will not be of particular importance. From another point of view, I can say that we are somewhat late with this decision. Given that on both sides the situation is being used politically, we divide nations and communities that already coexist and live together anyway. I can also say that by delaying this decision and putting ourselves in the shoes of our neighbours, not only from Macedonia, and from Albania, people are wondering why we are so abusing the fact that we are not raising the veto. We are turning them against us and that at this point we have this good proposal and we can make this decision only bring the peoples closer together. We should not divide them and try to extract political dividends from this thing from both sides, not only from Bulgaria but also from Macedonia. So I say frankly that I am for and I think everyone in this room knows that this is the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u95	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. For the next line, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Slavov, thank you for your speech. I agree with a lot of what you said. However, whatever we have prepared in our speeches, we must still participate in the debate, respond to, I would say, the false things that fly in this House during the speeches. And I am very happy that there are representatives in this House, sympathizers of a party, as this gives me the opportunity, this is largely to you. [[the MP turns to the balcony where supporters sit]] Not just to Mr. Slavov, to demonstrate the way that the leaders of this party play with your trust. Here it has just been said that it was not true that Bulgaria would work unanimously and that Bulgaria could at any time stop Macedonia from entering the European Union during the negotiations. The negotiating position explicitly states: "Any opening of a chapter, any closure of a chapter shall be by the unanimity Council of all the Member States of the European Union. "And Bulgaria may at any time block any decision. It is also said that there have been proposals in the European Union to remove the CVM, which can be eliminated only with Bulgaria's consent, as these changes are made with amendments to the European Union's treaties, which currently only become unanimous and Bulgaria can block these amendments. So the phrase Mr. Kostadinov said just now that it didn't matter whether Bulgaria is for or against such treaty changes is simply manipulative, as any treaty amendment is currently taking place unanimously. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u97	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. For the coat, Mr. Slavov, come in. Colleagues, nine more speeches have been recorded.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the colleagues who did the lines. Mr. Yordanov, let us read what is written in the draft decision itself, which we are discussing and believe we will accept:................................ This is part of parliament's decision. We do not recognise by this decision and by adopting the proposal of the French Presidency we do not recognise the existence of Macedonian language. This is a matter that will be resolved further. However, we cannot expect that all Member States will stand behind our claim, which is a claim I say there is no Macedonian language. This is a matter that will be resolved on a bilateral basis. We have declarations signed in this sense. This, of course, did not prevent Minister Karakachanov a few years ago, when Macedonia joined NATO, to sign a treaty and make commitments. One part of the contract is in Macedonian language. But anyway, it is a question that will find an answer in our bilateral relations. To my colleague, Tabutov, I fully agree that the time is now. The time frame is very important and has been repeatedly said that if we are currently missing this unprecedented opportunity in terms of the negotiation process that the French Presidency gives us, it is not certain whether and when we will have another such opportunity. And whether Macedonia, northern Macedonia, accepts this negotiating position or not, we must protect the Bulgarian interest and we will do so, I hope, today. And to my colleague, Gochev, I fully agree that from now on, at a time when the negotiations begin, we will have the opportunity to impose not one, several, many............................ the negotiation process. Each time the relevant negotiating chapter cluster is opened, there are no achievements that correspond to what is included in the negotiating position and what is included in the Intergovernmental Commission protocols. So not only do we not reduce the control of the negotiation process, we strengthen it with multiple veto possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u99	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Bikov is scheduled for the next speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Unfortunately, politics and we who engage in politics are doomed to take priority of reality and facts, not desires. And I will start with a reminder because the Bulgarian-Macedonian relations, and it is not relations, and Macedonia as a layer in the Bulgarian national identity has very deep roots. And we can give here a variety of historical examples, unfortunately, more about our failures than about our successes on this subject. The best possible proposal Bulgaria receives in the Inter-Union War, in the Balkan War, is to receive Aegean Macedonia and thereby get out of the Mediterranean. Our wish then, however, is to take all Macedonia and Vardarska and the Aegean, and it is fair. The result, however, is that we only get Pirinska, and to this day it is. So we have to divide what we want, what we can and what we achieve in the end. Undoubtedly this proposal, and that's what everyone says, and here in this room, it's the best we've gotten so far. But there is one question here that we need to think a lot about: and can we get better than that? Can we? Is there anyone here who can say that we can get better than this offer? Because I have every reason to think that we don't have that opportunity. We might want to. Our ideas may be very fair and indeed for all of us to unite around them. But can we get it?! And in this sense we have to take one step and this step that we are going to take today, if we do it, it is not very big. There are many more steps ahead. I was at the Forty-fourth National Assembly when we ratified the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation with Macedonia with full consensus. When we ratified Macedonia's NATO membership, again with full consensus. These were all steps between people on both sides of the border, which, notice, have not been in a common civilization zone and a geopolitical zone since 1878. These are nearly 150 years in which we have been separated from our brothers in Macedonia. And all the efforts that we have to make and make in the future, and consistently, not one government to do one thing, another, is for people on both sides of the border to live in a common civilization and geopolitical zone. Then we will become a people again. Whether this will happen with the signing of some treaty, with the inserting of some clause, I say no. Whatever we write in a contract, we have signed, I repeat, a Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation, which in itself does not decide anything if it is not respected. But after 150 years of separation, after two national catastrophes, after a catastrophe, a real one, for the Bulgarian identity, which was shameful after 1945 until 1949, when the Bulgarian state conducted assimilation of the Bulgarians in Pirin Macedonia. After all these tragedies, we cannot expect for one year, for two years, for five years, for 15 years, for 30 years to have a relationship that we should have, as people who have a common origin, whose roots are at the deepest point of the Bulgarian national identity, of the modern Bulgarian national identity, in the history of Slavo-Bulgarian. This can't happen with an appeal we've tried. I think the veto has done its job because the veto focuses the Bulgarian demands, which are absolutely fair and European. They were understood by our European partners and put in the proposal of the Council of the European Union. From now on, I do not expect anyone else to protect the Bulgarian interest. I expect the Bulgarian national interest with the instruments that this proposal gives us to be defended consistently by all Bulgarian governments from now on, regardless of which coalition, which party they are broadcast from. That's what we have to do! And something very important must be said to all Bulgarians, to the Bulgarian people: we should be ready to give Macedonia if we want to have influence there! There is no country that has influence in another country without giving! And we have to say it very clearly to everyone: "We cannot expect just love from Macedonia! " - We have to think realistically, not romantically. The fact that Macedonia is the most romantic part of Bulgarian history is true, but it is romanticism that has led us today not to be able to speak the same language with our brothers, although we speak the same language. And that has to change from us and, of course, from them. And one last thing. Let our European partners also know: it is the Bulgarians in Macedonia who are against Bulgaria in Macedonia who are against Europe! And we have to tell them that. We must not allow ourselves to turn the anti-Bulgarian elements in Macedonia into pro-European because they are not! And since 1992, since we first recognised Macedonia, we have been trying to pull Macedonia out of the orbit of Yugoslavia and all the anti-Bulgarian elements in Macedonia must know it! We will continue to do so consistently until Macedonia becomes a European country and we, together with our brothers, live without borders as our grandfathers, forefathers and great-great-grandfathers have dreamed. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u101	Is there a line to Mr. Bikov? Mr. Tosko Yordanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bikov, for you it seems that the European Union stands above Bulgaria is the opposite for me. Secondly, our grandmothers, great-grandmothers and great-grandfathers were dying for Macedonia to be within Bulgaria and not at the moment to perform ugly gestures comparable to unwanted sexual acts to our brothers in Macedonia.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u103	Always colorful. Is there another line? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u104	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Yordanov, thank you for giving me three more minutes, because in our group there are many willing to speak, they will have time. But this is my personal opinion, I see the European Union as a tool and a huge opportunity for Bulgaria to be a strong state. By the way, in recent years, as well as the process with Macedonia, and the French Presidency, which proposed the agreement, has shown that Bulgaria is not such a weak country; it shows that Bulgaria has much more tools through the European Union to protect its national interests than it would have had if we were not in the European Union. In this sense, because our membership of the European Union is largely consensual and in this House, I do not intend to explain why we are there. Certainly, Macedonia should be a member of the European Union, that is what all people say. Let me not speak on behalf of everyone, but even from "There is such a people" you say that Macedonia should be a member of the European Union. Yes, under what conditions, and so on, we can have some differences in this, even though there are no differences in this. Our only difference is when and it is a time difference when this start of negotiations will take place. And indeed here there is a guarantee that the introduction of Bulgarians into the Constitution of Macedonia will guarantee their rights, because bear in mind that we must think about everything, but we must think about everything separately. The Bulgarians in Macedonia really have violated their rights. This is not a secret. We have to give them this opportunity. Bear in mind that some of them support this agreement because it will give them opportunities to defend their rights. And we as MPs must commit to the rights of every Bulgarian there, and they are over 100,000! Over 100,000 have Bulgarian passports, which have proved to be Bulgarians, unlike us here all. None of us have proven to be Bulgarian, unlike them. Therefore, I will call on you, too. I will congratulate not only Mrs. Genchovska, the overall work of the Foreign Ministry in recent years deserves congratulations because Bulgaria defended its interests in Macedonia, as far as it could! Let us take what is now given to her, and let us continue to fight from tomorrow for what is due to us! And let's do it together, because there's nothing worse than a double position we've talked about in the last few months, and you know damn well that that wasn't good. Let's stick to each other's interests together, because we're all fighting for the same thing here, and I'm absolutely sure of it. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u105	The next entry is Mr. Nastimir Ananiev. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The adoption of the Western Balkans into the European Union is strategically important for Bulgaria and I am sure that there is no one who can put solid arguments in the opposite direction. This is very important for Bulgaria and it was also one of the highlights of the European Presidency, which was held in Bulgaria when we took over Europe for six months. We have heard passionate speeches about how important it is for Northern Macedonia to enter the European Union. The issue is that 2019, instead of this process, the biggest Euro-Atlantic, which yesterday or the other day promised 59 MPs for Macedonia, actually stopped the entire process under pressure from its partners, who protested before his house yesterday. And although there are people who are trying to bring out Euro-Atlantics or to work for the Bulgarian interest, it is actually another interest. What we have shown is political will. We restarted the dialogue with Northern Macedonia, took the necessary steps, also defended the Bulgarian interest. There is a reprimand that is repeated by the opponents of today's decision, and this one is: We have downloaded the veto. In fact, on the contrary, we have introduced new 70 vets, 35 negotiating chapters! For each opening and for every closing Bulgaria will have a veto, which ensures that everything we have placed in the documents will be implemented because it will depend on us. But it will depend on us who govern, because if your coalition partner can put you on your knees and choose to keep your government over what is important to Bulgaria, then something else can happen. But Bulgaria's interest is protected. It is very important what and what will be the final text of the intergovernmental protocol, because there are currently many important things that include. The latest edit should protect all the things that are important to us on all the topics. We had colleagues here who say: "Macedonia is Bulgaria." Yes, and Bulgaria is Europe. Why stop Macedonia for Europe? [[Heckling]] Why? In whose interest it is to stop Northern Macedonia from joining the European Union and thus make our two nations unite and people feel that there are no differences in what we do!? The statement of Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama has also been mentioned, but we must always remember that politicians are transitional, but the peoples and what binds them remain forever and ever. So let us not focus on hatred, but focus on what is important for Bulgaria and that our interest is protected. 35 negotiating chapters of opening and closing we can veto! There's no way our interest could be surrounded, there's no way! And this was achieved with the efforts of the Foreign Ministry and with the efforts of the Bulgarian government because they wanted to solve the problem! Not to whine and point fingers, but to find a solution that works for the country! This has happened, and that is why we must support this decision. And there were some dummies that were said from this tribune about pressure. There's always pressure. Especially when French President Macron is in an election campaign, as he may not be able to form a cabinet, it is normal to say: I want to achieve this or that. The important thing is that at the moment unprecedentedly, for the first time the European Commission sided with Bulgaria, entered this dispute and occupied the Bulgarian side. We have succeeded in imposing our demands to become European demands. We have managed to force Northern Macedonia to negotiate with the European Union now, where we have our mechanisms and levers to protect every Bulgarian interest, I say again, depending on who manages to ensure that it does not squat before foreign interests. Because we have nothing to lie to each other about the Russian interests in the Balkans are very strong and the parties that preach them stand for them. [[Reply from the National Representative Toshko Yordanov.]] There will always be dissatisfied, they will always say: but maybe better, maybe even stronger, we can also include this! The question is, when we have made a mechanism that guarantees the Bulgarian interest, and this mechanism has it at this moment in the way the proposal of a Democratic Bulgaria is pawned it! So I think our interest is protected in every way. I call on the Bulgarian citizens: don't buy into the covers, read the documents, see what happens instead of a veto, we have 70 vetos! Thank you. [[(Private applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u107	Mr. Toshko Yordanov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u108	That's how it's gonna be today: a lot of traitors, a few patriots. Mr. Ananiev, first of all, stop lying to the 70 veto because the veto is one for starting negotiations. It was the battle, it was the drama, it promised just Kiro from the beginning, forming a cabinet. That's what he promised and took a comfortable position to do this thing. I say again, open, unscramble, Mr. President, the transcripts from the Advisory Council. Secondly, yes, politicians are transient, but traitors are eternal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u109	Mr. Karadaye, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ananiev, you said that the adoption of the decision is very important for Bulgaria, but it is also very late. For six months, the government, the failed backstage government, the oligarch, media and energy monopoly Ivo Prokopiev, failed to make a proposal and the Republic of Northern Macedonia to launch EU membership negotiations. The rest of you are right. The negotiation process is long and in this period there are different ways in which one way or another to protect interests, but most of all no one has refused to implement the Agreement that has it. That's why we thanked Mr. Macron. But only him to congratulate us, but we also thanked Mr Macron for the fact that in the negotiating framework proposed by the French Presidency, the Bulgarian interest was taken into account. But from June 16th, when it was the proposal of the French Presidency, by June 22nd, this failed government still did not do its job to submit to the National Assembly any proposal to take a decision on the National Assembly. And it has come to that again, the DPS had to submit the proposals of the French Presidency to the National Assembly in order to be able to come to the situation in which the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to take a decision. Another point is that, at the moment after the submission of the proposal of the DPS, there is already one competition for who else to make and rewrite the DPS proposal in terms only of being the right people and not being the one proposed by the DPS. We agree on that. It has happened on other topics, even technical errors have been the same, but one has been voted for, the other has been against, we do not care about authorship. The important thing is to solve the matter. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u111	Is there another line? Mr. Ananiev's dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman. Mr. Karadaye, I'll start with you. In fact, the fact is quite different. On Tuesday, on a proposal from the Foreign Commission, which was to be convened, there was a call for the transcript, the proposal is from the gentleman behind you, who proposed on a shorthand that the Commission should be postponed, so let's look at the facts! And you say you're six months late. It may be difficult for you to talk about GERB, but they were two and a half years late. Why did 2019 not negotiate these conditions in this way in order to protect the Bulgarian interest? I'll tell you why. Because Boyko Borisov could never negotiate such conditions and thus protect the Bulgarian interest. By the way, you were also in the National Assembly at the same time. About Mr. Yordanov's comment. Maybe he didn't understand, I know that as an ambrazor he took the veto, but Bulgaria couldn't open any negotiating chapters...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u113	Northern Macedonia!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u114	Northern Macedonia, I apologize, cannot open any negotiation chapters, because if it does not meet our terms, in one word, if it has not changed its constitution, it cannot happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u115	It was like that anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u116	Our interest is guaranteed. I understand that this topic is very important to you, but the fact is different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u117	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u118	Mr. Karadayi, with respect to you, you had no reason to conduct yourself, but please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u119	Mr. Chairman, you claim that I have no reason, but I believe I have reason. Mr. Chairman, you are also aware of this document, which was the Draft Decision of the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2022, which was rejected by Kiril Petkov and Asen Vassilev, and the right order was for the Council of Ministers to submit a proposal to the National Assembly to be considered. That is why we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and submitted a proposal after it was already clear that Kiril Petkov and Assen Vassilev rejected the proposal for a decision of the Council of Ministers to submit a draft decision to the National Assembly. This is my first line, Mr. Chairman, to you that I have reason to remind him of Mr. Ananiev when he says some factual inaccuracies from here, from this tribune. And the second thing. Dear Lord President, give a rule on the work of the National Assembly to Mr. Ananiev to see that no commission can be pronounced in place of the National Assembly, and there was nothing submitted to the National Assembly for consideration. The only thing by June 22nd after the failed decision in the Council of Ministers made it a DPS, the right move, to bring something in so that today we can sit down and decide on the topic despite the refusal of the government of Ivo Prokopiev's backstage. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u120	Mr. Yordanov, how can I say no?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. Other presidents here do other things anyway. It's the way it's supposed to be. If you can explain to Mr. Ananiev when he starts saying false things, because here the problem is raising the veto and starting the negotiations. In any case, in the case of a process initiated, with or without, Bulgaria and any Member State may suspend the Member State concerned in each chapter. So now tell me that this is a big win, because we have 70 vets we have anyway. Call them veta, brake, whatever you want. Here the question is how are you going together at the moment, and what is a wonderful view, we are continuing the Change with the DPS that stand next to you, with GERB, who are there and which are supposedly their political opponents, together, as a majority, to adopt a decision that is against the will of the Bulgarian people. [[Replys from the People's President Nastimir Ananiev.]] Against! Against, Mr. Ananiev. Against! So you've stepped up. It's great! I suggest that you do not stop and then choose the President of the National Assembly and quickly choose a new Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u122	The next recorded statement is Mr. Balabanov. Mr. Balabanov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today is not an historic day, nor an historic moment. Today is another shameful day for this parliament. Why embarrassed? Because we have been debating the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria for several hours now. Why? Because the issue of the Republic of Northern Macedonia is a priority of the Council of Ministers and decisions are taken by the Council of Ministers and by the Prime Minister. The examination of this case, i.e. throwing this topic into parliament, is actually washing the hands of a national traitor who has done everything possible in the last three months to try to conduct this dual policy, which we first warned you about, because it is good that the Bulgarian society is watching and will draw its conclusions right now. All this policy, which came to a French proposal, in which the only goal is for French President Macron to win, raises the guilty conscience here of fellow MPs, who, in the most untypical today's newly formed coalition between GERB, DPS, continue the Change and Democratic Bulgaria, will try to wash away the shame of the Prime Minister who will say: "Super, the parliament has decided so, of course, I decide to raise the veto. The problem with the Bulgarian national interest has always been that we try to stay our national position as a people and not betray it. What does the French proposal really tell us, fellow Members? Why are we pretending to be misunderstood just to push through the betrayal of a former prime minister? What does this French proposal say? Let us agree and start negotiations, and then somewhere in time, one day, perhaps the rights of the Bulgarians will guarantee them. Perhaps with regard to the Macedonian language, we know that for you Bulgarians such language does not exist, but you let Macedonia go, and we in France, when Macedonia comes to visit, will tell them that we know that there is no Macedonian language for the Bulgarians, but for us there is, what is more wonderful to be in the European Union. All the guarantees are later, all the promises are later. Why, fellow Members, should a French proposal be decided as quickly as possible in the last few minutes, and by violating the Constitution through parliament? What about the Advisory Council? All of you political parties are being extremely hypocritical at the moment because you stood next to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria during the Advisory Council and expressed the clear position of Bulgaria, a position which should not be given up. And it is this: only the veto can be lifted only when all the points that Bulgaria has adopted are fulfilled and by the Treaty of Good Neighborhood when the Constitution is changed and then yes, what more wonderful thing is there than for Macedonia to start its European path? But until then, what do we get on bail? Promises, election promises of a French president?! What about five years from now, will Macron be in power? In five years' time, what will be the situation in Europe to ensure that something is guaranteed to us in Macedonia? Until then, what will happen to the Bulgarians in Macedonia? Will they not continue to be repressed, or will the squares in Macedonia continue to say that we are Nazis and fascists? Are you sure about that? You know very well what the situation with the Bulgarians is now in Macedonia. What about the Macedonian language? In the coming years, what will all European partners say to you? Yes, somewhere in Bulgaria know that there is no Macedonian language, but it is good that they let them go and start these negotiations. At the moment, colleagues, because the national betrayal against the Constitution is being baked through the plenary, you should know that you are nothing more than an accomplice who will help the national traitor Kiril Petkov to wash his conscience, to stand in Brussels and say: the parliament has decided so. Only the parliament will confirm this national betrayal. And I am extremely happy that thanks to "There is such a people" three months ago we were the first to warn the Bulgarian society. Now the Bulgarian society must clearly know that at the moment those who protested yesterday, I do not know what they protested that the mafia wants to return the state, today they are ready with the mafia to vote only and only to satisfy the betrayal of a former prime minister. It's nice, compatriots, to see what's happening. It is good to remember that there is such a people... told you three months ago what will happen and you already see the result. And I call on the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, who sided with the Bulgarian society in order to respect all the guarantees that everything must be fulfilled before the veto is lifted, to decipher the talks from the Advisory Council to see what a traitor he was and was a former prime minister. Because why do I say he's a traitor? Mr. Chairman, this is not a qualification, and I say it from my personal experience. When I came out with my face and told you that this very timing was drawn and painted by the Prime Minister, everyone said: "What difference does it make, it is not proven. How can some notes fly into the public domain? " Well, now is the same French proposal, at the last moment, only mentioning that we have to reach our hands, start the process and then one after another somewhere will be our guarantor. I repeat: someone somewhere will be our guarantor! So betrayal is a fact. The conclusions will make them Bulgarian society. I'm telling you again, I'm really glad we were the first to warn you. I don't know in this situation how the BSP colleagues will react. They will probably vote against it, as I will vote against the French proposal. But for them, my dear, it was a huge red line in the coalition, and for them it strongly violates the coalition agreement. And when that happens, I will be very interested in the leaders of the BSP what decision will they make, how will they look at the Bulgarian voters and will they remain in this vicious coalition led by a national traitor? The conclusions were made, we acted wisely and we left the coalition in time. Now it's time for the rest of us to decide for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u124	Are there any lines to Mr. Balabanov? Mr. Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Balabanov, there is one clarity on the problems of betrayal, although I do not want to use this word That's betrayal. The rest are indeed, I recognize your oratorial qualities, but an attempt at manipulation. I would like to remind you of something that the honourable Presidency does not know, but we were given to the Commission yesterday. If you look at the Draft Decision of the Council of Ministers, which your foreign minister proposed, in it literally, and it is rejected by the Council of Ministers, it is proposed to raise the veto and start negotiations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. This is what your foreign minister is proposing. There is the Draft Decision of the Council of Ministers, you can read it. I think you're an experienced man and a politician enough to see it and comment on it. And so please, let us not throw ourselves at each other, let us not throw betrayal stories at each other, let us vote on each other's conscience, and let us be correct in our relationship to each other, as we are here waving accusations of betrayal, I personally, regardless of whether you are trying and now, to be quite correct to you, to once again put a wedge in the relationship between the parties of the coalition that you have destroyed, to raise questions that have a clear solution. This is not correct on your part and the nation will not forgive you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u126	And thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Is there another line? I can't see. Mr. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Professor Mihailov, it is not correct to the Bulgarian society if we had kept our mouths shut. We warned the Bulgarian society three months ago that we had a national traitor and that is Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. We warned what would happen. Three months later, we see the result. Here I am not trying to put a wedge in the relations of parties, provided that you know that your position is like ours, that is, we need to ensure and respect all Bulgarian demands and then raise the veto and Macedonia to start the negotiations. But in recent weeks as a result of the fact that public opinion is heightened on the subject, we warned you, the President warns you every day, Kiril Petkov knows that he is a traitor and knows what he has done, just decided to wash his hands through you. [[(Reply from?) We continue the Change????????????]] That's the reality. Therefore, I am not ashamed in front of the Bulgarian society that I have left this coalition, because when we have a national traitor in charge of this coalition who betrays the Bulgarian national interest, I do not want to rule with it and it is more than clear. So I really hope you will vote on your conscience because otherwise the Bulgarian society will very zealously punish you on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u128	Thank you. There's no such people who don't appreciate how thick my nerves are.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u129	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u130	Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u131	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner in which you are directed. I understand that your nerves are thick, but please, when someone who calls himself a Member of the National Assembly speaks so much, how can I say, first, insulting, second, false qualifications to the Prime Minister, please stop him! And with regard to national betrayal, I would like to remind Comrade Balabanov that their leader was yet another month of January ready to sell the Bulgarian national interest for visa waiver in the US for Bulgarians and for the abolition of Schengen. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u132	Look, you have reason for this reproach on me, but I do realize that maybe that's what you're looking for. Let's go this way. Atanas Mihnev is recorded.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u133	He's gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u134	He's not here? Ekaterina Zaharieva has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u136	Excuse me, Mrs. Zaharieva. I'm asking for order in this room. Listen to your former foreign minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for trying to reduce the noise in the room. I know that this topic is emotional and close to the heart of at least one third of Bulgarian citizens, and in recent years it has been, I would say, to everyone. I, because many times have been mentioned by some of those who spoke before me a clear conscience, can assure every Bulgarian citizen and the Macedonian Bulgarians that I will vote with an absolute clear conscience for today's decision to give the green light to the Bulgarian government to approve the proposal proposed by the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in this case the French proposal for a negotiating framework. Why? Because, first of all, the rights of Macedonian Bulgarians, the language of hatred, the cessation of discrimination against them, respect for their rights, monitoring the work of the institutions in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, which should fight discrimination, become part of the cluster of fundamental issues and will be monitored throughout the negotiations. Because, honourable Members, in fact, a lot of people, unfortunately, propaganda fueled by the Republic of Northern Macedonia, think that Bulgaria's demands are just a petty historical nagging, and in fact they are a struggle for the present and for the future. Because if we continue this way, if history, propaganda and hate language continue to be stolen, we will continue to raise generations on both sides of the border that hate each other. And from that we lose both countries, but mostly the citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. I will not go into details about the Constitution, about the roadmap, protocols are written, but this is essentially a roadmap for fulfilling the treaty that becomes part of the negotiating framework. Because some Members, in my opinion, wrongly said that a bilateral issue is part of the EU membership negotiations. No, colleagues, this is not just a two-sided question, it is a pure European issue. Because in order to want to become a member of the European Union, you have to meet some criteria, and these criteria are also in this protection of human rights, of all your citizens, including Macedonian Bulgarians, the development of good neighbourly relations and regional cooperation, working institutions, democratic processes, breaking up with the past, a clear definition of where you stand geopolitically. So the success of Bulgarian diplomacy is precisely that it managed to explain, yes, it took her two years, it is, it was not easy to explain that this is not really just a bilateral issue. You know, I've been thinking about not getting into who did it, who didn't, but unfortunately, my colleagues from It's obvious they don't know the details of the process. It is obvious that they do not want and do not want to try to make some unification, albeit not of the entire parliament, on this important, really historical issue, but I have heard once again many lies and many inaccurate things. Colleagues, I will recall our government, Prime Minister Borisov's second government, as early as 2017 resumed this difficult process and I have never missed it then, I said, because a series of foreign ministers and diplomats before me, including Mr. Vigenin, have worked on this Treaty of Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation to happen. Yeah, there was a window of opportunity back then. Yes, then we made the tough decision, the historic decision, the important and the good decision we were able to sign. We were able to convince the remaining 27 countries back then - Britain was still a member of the European Union - to accept the Bulgarian priority as part of the European priorities, namely the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries. And obviously we have done quite well, however much criticism I hear, because since 2018, many years have passed, colleagues, and this is still the main priority of all the other presidencies. Yeah, we knew then, we weren't naive at all, that just signing a contract wouldn't solve our problems, on the contrary, that's the beginning. Yes, we knew that very often colleagues in the Republic of Northern Macedonia sign something and then forget it just to get one yes. However, we have also been able to sign the protocol - the only one, by the way, so far, which has been signed in 2019 - has been quoted many times today by the second protocol, which becomes part of the negotiating framework, for the implementation of the Treaty. This is on the Commission under art. 12. It's an intergovernmental committee. In it there is everything that is not in this, the second protocol is a project of it. And what is the value of the negotiating framework, fellow Members? That these protocols are not one, and then there will be, become part of the negotiation process, become part of the observation all the time. So, colleagues from.. We continue the Change...... neither does everything start from you............. or will it all end with you.....................then the other way around. Unfortunately, we really missed driving between the coalition partners, between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister, indeed quite valuable time from the French Presidency. But I don't want to go back to that. We're here right now. We have a really good offer. As of Friday, hang on to this committee. You're hiding your chairman. I tried calling her five times yesterday, she absolutely didn't answer my phone. I'm sorry to say I'm getting into these things. However, when we were able to get together and put on the agenda the decision that we proposed, DPS and
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u138	"Democratic Bulgaria" to tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u139	Mr. Chairman, you're right. You're right. We were able to accept one of them. It is a pity that our attempts, at least the three importers, of the three importing parties, to have one joint decision, today to vote on one solution, failed yesterday. But this decision was possible because once again GERB and our leader, as we raised the issue in 2017, 2018, 2019 and our government asked for these issues, which are not just bilateral, to become part of the negotiating framework. Then the two offices worked on it. There was a four-month suspension during your government that is the truth, colleagues! [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] It's been working for the last two months. I'm going to pretend I can't hear Mr. Ananiev. That's not easy to explain, so it took two years. We have come this far because Bulgarian political parties, Bulgarian society did not succumb to pressure and we have a really good solution. The other day, on Tuesday, we said clearly: colleagues, we will support, submit it to the National Assembly, but let us follow the constitutional procedure. The National Assembly cannot seize powers from the Council of Ministers, there is a series of decisions of the Constitutional Court. [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Mr. Chairman, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u140	Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u141	Let the Council of Ministers make a decision and we will consider it. We'll look at it! I said: we will vote on what you submit, we will approve the negotiating framework. So we asked for a continuance, not a cancellation, because there was no solution. Waiting for what was done at the Council of Ministers on Wednesday, Mr. Ananiev, and not Tuesday, we saw that the Council of Ministers did not come up with a decision, did not approve the decision of the Foreign Minister, which was submitted to the Council of Ministers. Then, the next morning, we made that decision. I very much hope, I know that our project has not passed in the Foreign Committee, but we have said clearly from the beginning: we will support all three projects because they are in the same direction. I believe that today is a good day for Europe, a good day for the Republic of Northern Macedonia, but most of all a good day for Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Are there any lines to Mrs. Zaharieva? I can't see. I just want to inform you, there are two more speeches. Could be three, you got five minutes of rebirth, figure it out. Then we'll go to the vote and then I'll take a break. The next entry for a speech is Mr. Georgiev from Resurrection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We saw yesterday that we have obviously a new coalition, a new one, an old one, a Euro-Atlantic consensus in parliament. These are the groups of "We continue the Change", DPS, "Democratic Bulgaria" and GERB a very interesting format that try to convince us with their speeches how the French proposal was good and did not represent a compromise against the national interests of Bulgaria. Therefore, I will quote not just anyone but your European partners, so loved, who protect our Bulgarian national interests in your opinion, what they say, namely, I quote French President Macron, who says: "This is your European debt. [[Noise and lines.]] He calls on Bulgarian politicians from all over the political spectrum to support the proposed compromise by France. I stress thickly, Macron himself defines the proposal as a compromise for Bulgaria and we should support it in order to allow the veto to be lifted on the start of the country's membership negotiations, so-called Northern Macedonia. I mean, how, ladies and gentlemen of the new, old, in fact Euro-Atlantic coalition, in particular "Democratic Bulgaria" and Hristo Ivanov, who allows himself to speak directly to the French representatives in order to instruct him how the veto should be taken down and how to surround the Bulgarian national interest, please ask Mr. Hristo Ivanov to answer this question: why did he, by speaking to the French representatives, not raise this question? And why does Macron really now confirm what we say that this proposal is a compromise for the Bulgarian country? That's why we won't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u144	Are there any lines to Mr. Georgiev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u145	Mr. Georgiev, I completely disagree that you have been extremely tactful to the people who in this House have repeatedly said that Macedonia is a deal and that Macedonia is an offer. Please note the new ruling coalition between the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria and DPS. We are continuing the Change and whoever else that Macedonia is part of Bulgaria. We will never spare her and Macedonia is not a deal. Macedonia, these are our ancestors, and this is our national memory.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u146	Will you take the hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u147	Because the new, and indeed old Euro-Atlantic coalition does not want to answer the question exactly what is the proposed compromise and which are the weaknesses of the so-called French proposal, I, as one of the few people in the Chamber who have read it, will do this for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u148	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u149	Yes, that is right, I will do this for you and I will draw your attention to a few significant moments without any claims of completeness, because physically time does not allow it to me, namely the loudly advertised entry of the Bulgarians in the Constitution of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. In the Constitution there is written about the Macedonian people. That is, if we write the proposal in its present form and ask for equality with other parts of the peoples, I stress the others, it turns out that we indirectly admit that there is another Macedonian people -- something that is sacrilege -- that is a crime against the Bulgarian national interest. Let me also recall Vanche Mihailov's words that: "We did not do IMRO to make two Bulgarians, but because we do not have one whole-built. Let me remind you that it was his club that was set on fire very recently, and I apologize to you, it was just recently set on fire in Macedonia, and this is another proof that the state bearing this name today has not been reformed. As such, it should not be admitted to membership of the European Union. Here I would like to quote directly the Statute, or, in other words, the Constitution of Northern Macedonia, so that you can gain an idea of what this is about. There is talk about the identity of the Macedonian people and its equality with Albanians and other peoples. That is, we understand from the so-made proposal that you agree that we have indirect recognition of other people than Bulgarian people. Quoting: The historical fact that Macedonia is their constitution is constituted as a national state of the Macedonian people, in which the Macedonian people enjoy overall civil equality and permanent co-existence with Albanians, Turks, Vlases and Roma, and other nationalities living in the Republic of Macedonia. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This is the biggest weakness of the loudly advertised entry of Bulgarians in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u150	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u151	Yes, Mr. Chairman, allow me a few seconds to finish. In addition, we have a direct reference, as we said, in Macedonian in the French proposal. Also, the bilateral protocol has not been signed. I'm giving you the specifics.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u152	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u153	You will endure a little for the time to hear the specifics that you did not provide yourself. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Okay, I will conclude with a quote by Vasil Levski and please don't interrupt me while I quote the Apostle of Freedom, who says so by memory quote: "We Bulgarians want to live human, we want to live freely in our land, the Bulgarian, where the Bulgarian lives in Bulgaria, Thrace, Macedonia. [[National Representative Toshko Yordanov wants the floor for procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u154	Procedure? But you don't have time. Okay, I'll break the rules, see what the procedure is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. However, thank you, because keeping is not just walking on the letter, we are not in the barracks. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I'd like to take a half hour off.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u156	Fifteen minutes of rest, then there's another one recorded, then we vote. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u157	Colleagues, I'm going to resume the hearing. The next recorded statement is Mr. Christian Vigenin. [[Reply by National Representative Stoyan Taslakov.]] Do they have time for rebirth?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u158	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u159	Wait a minute, now procedure. [[Heckling]] All right, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u160	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Resurrection Group, I'd like a half-hour rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u161	You have the right to ask. I'll give you 10 minutes off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u162	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, please take your seats. [[Noise.]] And I'm asking you politely to remain silent. I'm resuming the hearing. Mr. Vigenin, come to the stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Maybe after the discussions of the last few days, I can start with an unintelligent joke that it's all clear that the dead guy comes in. Still, a few words on this subject. I know some of you are looking forward to ending and voting, but I still have to say what I'm supposed to say. Firstly, to begin with that enlargement of the European Union is one of the European Union's most important policies. This is how the space of stability, economic prosperity, peace, good neighbourliness was extended. This policy has proved successful and it will continue to be successful. By the way, in another situation, perhaps we could also adopt a declaration to welcome the status of a candidate country for Moldova and Ukraine and to express our expectation very soon that Georgia will also receive this status because these three countries have made a great deal of effort in recent years. Unfortunately, it had to start a war to reflect on the European Union and to consider that these three neighbouring neighbours of the European Union deserve to be part of the European Union if they wish and implement reforms. In the context of enlargement policy, Bulgaria as a member of the European Union continued to be an active supporter and defender of this policy, and we have to say that during the Bulgarian Presidency we were the ones who put the issue of enlargement with the Western Balkan countries back on the agenda and we made this process to be resumed very little. For a certain period of time, the impression has even been created that, with the help of the negotiation process, which also focuses on good neighbourliness, we will be able to resolve the problem issues in bilateral relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Today we can say that the lack of goodwill from a Macedonian country in these years and the clumsy approach of the Bulgarian government led to a blockage which gradually became the most toxic problem not only in Bulgaria's foreign policy, but also in Bulgaria's domestic policy, to an extent to which there is currently no party that does not try to abuse this topic of close party interests, for positioning in front of external partners, for gaining electoral dividends. BSP has repeatedly called for an end to this, to bring out the topic "Northern Macedonia" in front of the clamp and to approach nationally responsible with the thought of the Bulgarian interest in the first place. The inability of parties, and I would say to institutions, to put national interest above all else, the inability for us to speak to each other as Bulgarians with Bulgarians has led us to today, when the National Assembly is forced in a situation of lack of time to make decisions with long-term consequences for Bulgaria, for its relations with the neighbours and for its role in the European Union at all. Here we must say that we are dissatisfied with what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done so far, and we disagree with this pressure to make the final decisions in this environment. A few arguments on our part. Firstly, there is virtually no government at the moment, there is no President of the National Assembly, there is virtually no Parliament. Two days he couldn't get a job, today he started, we don't know when he'll be able to get a quorum again. Do you think it is appropriate in such a situation, political, to make such a decision by the Bulgarian Parliament, in general, by the Bulgarian State? There are no innocents here either. Colleagues from GERB, for example, could you wait a week with the vote of mistrust, or did you very much insist that Bulgaria now be represented by a Prime Minister in resignation? What position can he and Bulgaria have through him when, in practice, a government, I say, will not? And the colleagues of "There is such a people" you have overthrown the government so that the betrayal of the Republic of Northern Macedonia will not be committed, as you say? How did it turn out that two days ago precisely your minister proposed to the Council of Ministers that the veto be removed? Now, I don't know how to qualify this thing. [[(Applause from..We continue the Change, BSP for ……]] , given that in practice all the actions of the Ministry in these months were dictated by the role played by your leader in relation to Minister Genchovska and the work specifically on this topic?! These are, I say, illogical actions that have already complicated the complex issue with the situation in which Bulgaria is located. The second element is how we can approach the approval of the proposal of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, provided that a key point in this proposal is the Bilateral Protocol under art. 12? It is quoted, by the way, in two places in this proposal, however, this protocol has not been signed, and not only has it not been signed, but has not been fully negotiated. Yesterday and the Commission, I did not get a clear enough answer from Minister Gencovska on this issue. What is left for negotiation is not only the wordings that will be carried over from the proposal of the French Presidency, but there are also issues relating to historical personalities, actions with regard to them. What do we do with them? Do you agree to do something, even if it is conditional that this protocol be signed, provided that we, as MPs, have no control over the content of this protocol? That is, we cannot post-factum say: "What is signed does not appeal to us. " - The question of content stands here. There is, of course, the question of how can a resignation minister go for the next few days, or come here the Macedonian minister, and sign such a protocol? How can such a minister make a commitment on behalf of the Bulgarian State? Thirdly, what do you think all this looks like in the eyes of Bulgarian citizens? We are in a hurry to approve something without even having the opportunity to discuss it properly here, to explain it to people. Even if the best proposal is, there can be no better, although I think it could, it still doesn't seem convincing in this way to run all the Council of Ministers, the National Assembly, committees, headed to approve something that some say there will never be such a good proposal again. I believe that it is rather a question of arguments in the name of being pressed, not that it really is. So in this sense, what security do we give the Bulgarian citizens that with these decisions taken over the head, we protect their interest and interest in the Bulgarian state? We have repeatedly said that our relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia contain three interconnected elements. One is the multilateral within the European Union. At the moment, the situation is not satisfactory enough and it must be further worked, which is recognised by all three projects. Both, by the way. The DPS does not comment on the content. The second element is the bilateral one. The protocol is only an expression of this two-sided element, but there is also a vague situation, because, as I said, this protocol is not agreed, even less signed, respectively. And the third element is our national policy, which is totally missing. We do not have a strategy, and without such a strategy the first two elements hang. Just everything we do in relation to the Republic of Northern Macedonia, unfortunately, and so far, is being played in pieces. So the lack of such a strategy is a serious problem that we need to work on in the coming weeks and months. The Presidency's proposal is a step in the right direction, but as I said, there are elements that do not satisfy us, they intersect the red lines that we have defined when creating the government, and the most important of them are actually related to the language. I will not dwell on the details, but we are not ready to compromise on this issue today and we have the need to continue discussions, talks, negotiations so that we can reach a proposal that is adequate. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. A few words about what we're proposing. Firstly, let Parliament not make a final decision today. Let's have a peaceful public discussion in the coming weeks and months. Let us continue the negotiations with the next Presidency and with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, while working out a comprehensive national strategy for these relations. To continue the dialogue between the institutions, including within the Advisory Council on National Security, and to return to this issue when either parliament and the political situation are stabilised or after possible early elections, when a new Parliament and a new government will have the full legitimacy to take this decision. Some say: we don't have time. " Bulgaria has time. We're a country over 1,300 years old. I think we'll last another month or two in which we can safely place our actions. Compromise today means compromise with the Bulgarian interest, compromise with our previous positions, compromise with the beliefs of our members and sympathizers. BSP is not ready to make such a compromise today. Therefore, we will reject the proposal of the DPS and the proposal of GERB. The proposal of a Democratic Bulgaria is closer to the truth, but not enough to say yes. We will abstain on this proposal. In addition, it explicitly mentions at the beginning the 2017 Treaty and its implementation, but there are wordings that do not satisfy us. I hope that we will continue our active and meaningful work in the future, because whatever is solved today, the problems remain. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u164	Are there any lines to Mr. Vigenin's statement? I can't see. Colleagues of old age, I'd like to make a statement. You have two minutes and five seconds. [[The National Representative Angel Georgiev is going to the stands.]] Wait a minute, I didn't give you the floor. Figure out how you'll use them, but no more than 10 seconds I'll give you a bonus, so... [[Reply from the National Representative Angel Georgiev.]] Now, look, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u165	Procedure, then a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u166	Your procedure is time, you know.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u167	First of all, as much as you gave Mr. Vigenin, that's what we want... [[Noise, lines, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u168	When you get up...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u169	...to be objective. Second... That's right. Mr. Vigenin, as a former foreign minister, how would you comment and is the behaviour of the Prime Minister in resignation adequate for you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u170	Was that a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u171	It was a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u172	Is there another line? Mr. Vigenin, would you like a duplicate?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u173	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u174	You're giving up the back. There are recorded by the ARCHIVER Peter Petrov and Nikolay Drenchev. [[Reply by National Representative Tsoncho Ganev.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u175	And Tsoncho Ganev. Before the break, I still raised my hand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u176	Okay, here you go. Find out which one of you will take the floor. I told you how much time you have.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u177	Given that the group has only 13 minutes to protect Macedonia from the national traitors in this room, I would like to remind you that Macedonia is Bulgaria and Bulgaria is Macedonia. [[noise and lines]] [[Applause from ARRANGEMENT. National Representative Angel Georgiev wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u178	Okay. Let's go, let's go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u179	Mr. Chairman, thank you for giving me the floor this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u180	And last time I gave it to you. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u181	Mr. Ganev, please briefly explain to the national traitors why Macedonia is Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u182	Mr. Ganev, come and explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u183	Mr. Chairman, I understand that all of the new majority of the DPS,.. Democratic Bulgaria..................... and GERB and the latter close the door in a hurry to take a decision and hand over national interests towards Macedonia so that your Prime Minister in resignation can now proudly raise the flag and announce that the Bulgarian Parliament in your person has sold our interests towards Macedonia, but what we can do will explain from this platform that this is not right. And for one very simple reason, we do not consider Macedonia to be a deal with anyone, we do not think that Macedonia can be the subject of a very good offer and the best offer we have received so far. To recall that tens or hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians died for this short land so that one day Bulgaria could be united again. My family is from there, I cannot accept that pro-Serbian statesmen in this country will now explain that my ancestors were Macedonians, not Bulgarians. I cannot accept that the Bulgarian people will accept this Parliament as normal to accept and make this compromise with our national interests. I'll remind you again, and I'll say it from here. While our ancestors gave their lives and blood were aunts for Macedonia, we have one thing as an obligation from this tribune not to betray national interests towards our Bulgarians. Because the last leader, leader of IMRO, not this passmina, which is currently a political party, Ivan Mihaylov, says one thing that remains in history: Macedonia without Bulgarians fire to burn it! There are hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians in Macedonia right now, and you want to leave them to pro-Serbian nationalists in Macedonia. We, at the age of one, cannot accept this thing, and we will do our best to put an end to this madness. Moreover, your current cynicism to drag on and to want, not to drag on, I apologize, but to want to make this decision as quickly as possible, so that the person who was removed only days ago from this tribune and was voted a vote of no confidence was told that he had no place in this policy, because he is at least a national traitor and brought the economic crisis in Bulgaria in the same size as it is. You want to give him the opportunity to become and say: "Well, the Bulgarian Parliament has voted for what I have dealt with you for months and months. I've got the DPS standing next to.. There's such a change.. There's gonna be such a change................ or they're told this thing that hasn't even filed registration documents. But I cannot accept as normal people who, from this tribune, like Mrs. Belobradova, who is known to love Macedonia, I have seen it and I have heard what she says, get out of this tribune and explain the whole thing how it is normal and is a supreme achievement of democracy. [[(Replying:..Search!..Search!...................................]] [[(Replying:..Search!..Search!...................................]] No, Macedonia is Bulgaria and Bulgaria is Macedonia! [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u184	Come on, Mr. Petrov, let's go. You usually move fast.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u185	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have recently not spoken from this tribune, and I see that some of you have acquired a free speech, but I would like to tell this part of you that their clumsy attempts to convince the public, who is currently watching us and listening to us, that the Bulgarian national interest will be protected, will not succeed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u186	Thank you. Are there lines? Mr. Kostadinov, get up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u187	Mr. Petrov, I'm not sure what you're saying is true. From the looks of it, there's a pretty serious traitorous conspiracy here. How can you argue what you said that traitors wouldn't succeed, that I didn't understand?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u188	Mr. Petrov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kostadinov, there is one thing that everyone in this room may forget, but the public should hear. When the Neighborhood Treaty was signed, it is a bit paradoxical that it entered into force precisely on 14 February 2018, a date on which Trifon Zarezan is celebrated in an old style on both sides of the border. The Bulgarians on both sides of the border of this date dump the vines with a view to having berket and prosperity and is generally a good holiday. Unfortunately, after this date, the official pro-Serbian authorities in Macedonia cut off the so-called vine of understanding, which should lead to us as one people on both sides of the border and all Bulgarians, all people with Bulgarian self-consciousness in the Republic of Macedonia, to receive their rightful treatment as Bulgarians. Unfortunately, it seems not only in this Chamber, but also a very large part of the Bulgarian society seems to have forgotten that since then it has been the Macedonian country that has hindered the formed bilateral commission, hindered its work, but instead attempts have been made by Bulgaria to obtain some... how to say..... to bend its hands, as is happening today, and to raise the veto, which, at least for me, is against the Bulgarian national interest. In general, here, from this tribune, quite often replicates me, and with emotion, Professor Mihailov, even edifyingly replicates me sometimes. Today, however, in his emotional speech again and he did not replicate me today, honor made you Professor Mihaylov, in his emotional statement today I saw that he was taking a position similar to that of rebirth, although so far I have heard you at least a hundred times, Professor Mihailov, talk with criticism of aging. I have one suspicion, Professor Mihailov, that perhaps the vote will show that my opinion and your opinion, especially in the case of Macedonia, will not be so different. I don't know. I guess so. I didn't see another famous replicator, Mr. Iskren Mitev, who generally speaks against rebirth only and only criticism. I didn't hear you, colleague, come out now on a line, as you always replicate me in general, both me and Tsoncho Ganev, and tell me what is the Bulgarian national interest which requires us to raise the veto under a foreign act implemented in a form of a so-called French proposal, which even the former prime minister did not have the courage to submit? Thank you. [[Noise and lines. Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u190	Go ahead, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u191	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For any child who can sum up two-digit numbers, it is clear that the new Euro-Atlantic coalition will do what it is ordered to do, which is very funny, very pathetic, very tragic and which is most offensive, is the way you do this thing. He might not be so knee-deep in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u192	Who's gonna give him a line? [[Laughter]] Mr. Ganev, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u193	Mr. Drenchev, since there are... quite many national forces in Bulgaria, are there also Macedonian military forces located in Bulgaria? [[(Laughs) That's it! Time!]] [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u194	Come on, douche bag. [[(Applause and cheering by]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You had the right to give us 10 minutes instead of what we asked for 15. We were entitled to three dummies, so it is quite in the order of things to be respected exactly as we have accepted it and as we have all voted for it. What I want to say to the replicating Mr. Tsoncho Ganev that I, first of all, very much like the position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. We saw how when they were ruling, talking and doing very different things, but since they smelled like they were going to be in opposition, they have already introduced themselves to say very reasonable things. I can really agree with Mr Vigenin, who quite rightly said that this National Assembly is not the time and place to make such decisions on such important issues. Because it really is a question that hangs over Bulgaria with a terrible power, for which our ancestors are aunts of blood, fought wars, died. All of this is not required of us. We need very little government. Now, here we see people who don't understand what war means at all, what an army means, if you hand them a machine gun, they probably won't know which side to catch it from. So they don't understand how important it is, how serious it is, how responsible this decision is, how reasonable it should be, how highly thoughtful it should be. Behold, the entire bill has been put into twelve by five, twelve and five, I don't know when. It's in a foreign language. There are people who will vote in this room and who have not seen it, who, even if they have read it, have not considered it. Not for all of this matter is easy to perceive. If I read documents that concern defence and which are easy to me and I can read them diagonally either in Bulgarian or in another language, that is not the case with documents that concern foreign policy. Among other things, there is a need to consider, there is a need to mature in the minds of each and every one of us, and that is what we should have done. You can't have a urbula like that, so on orders from someone on top, we can all break our legs. Here, four parties on the right to the left, taking them in, all have a huge desire to accept something so that the Prime Minister in resignation and the cabinet that the majority of us have the opinion that it was the most incompetent cabinet to be able to report with some Komsomol flame in Brussels that something we had decided. No, we're not gonna solve it. Breeding will strongly oppose even if we are a minority. In this Parliament, we may be a minority, you may run us over with the powers of one minority, then you reconfigured another majority, but anyway, what will happen in the next Parliament, the resurrection will revise these decisions. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, is there anyone else who would like to speak? I can't see. We close the discussion on the point and move on to the vote. First, we must vote on the draft decision submitted by Mr Karadayi and a group of MPs for approval of proposals by the French Presidency, the draft negotiating framework for membership in the European Union of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania, No 47-254-02-74, submitted by Mr Karadayi and a group of MPs. I must point out that this draft decision by the Foreign Commission has not been supported. I shall put the submitted draft to the said number to the vote. They voted 227 MPs: for 101, against 68, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote. Please suspend the vote and declare the result. He's exactly the same, let them see him in groups. They voted 227 MPs: for 101, against 68, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. The next draft decision is to take action by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria for approval of the draft negotiating framework and the Project for Conclusion of the Council of the European Union on the European Integration of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, No 47-254-02-75, submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Voting mode. Vote 227 MPs: 104, against 68, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote. They voted 230 MPs: for 104, against 70, abstention 56. We move on to the third draft decision, which was supported yesterday at the External Committee meeting, but we must first approach the editorial proposals that have been made in the Chamber. Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Ivanov, I will be quick to save time, and I invite you, Mr. Ivanov, to accept our proposal so that we do not have to discuss it and vote it, namely as a last point after the decision is over, to add: Of course, this proposal will apply not only to this government but also to the next. I urge you to really accept it so we don't have to waste time discussing and voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u198	Mr. Anastasov, in haste and I have failed. After the discussion cannot be made editorial proposals, so thank you for that, but it is my fault. And apart from that, what you are proposing is basically incorporated into the proposed draft decision. Let's move on to editorial proposals. In point II, where it is written: for this purpose: the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria to approve a proposal of the Presidency, the current Presidency of the Council of the European Union draft negotiating framework is added... A new text shall then be added after the last indent which has the following content: . - involvement of a reference to the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation from 2017 and the minutes of the meetings of the Joint Intergovernmental Commission under art. 12 of this Treaty in the negotiating framework relating to the approval by the Council of the European Union of the common positions on intergovernmental conferences the European Union. This is the second editorial amendment. Okay, that's how it's written down. In practice, the second indent of the second indent of the proposals for the negotiating framework and so on acquire the kind that I have read you. Mr. Ivanov, come to the stand so we don't make a mistake right here at the finish line, because what's written down for me... Read the actual text.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u199	Guys, I'm sorry about the mix-up. I, when I spoke as an importer, made these editorial corrections. This is about editing the last indent, the text of which now acquires the following form: "Include a reference to the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation from 2017 and the minutes of the meetings of the Joint Intergovernmental Commission under art. 12 of this Treaty in the negotiating framework relating to the approval by the Council of the European Union of common positions on intergovernmental conferences, the European Union, the Republic of Northern Macedonia. And the third editorial amendment is in the last paragraph. In the place of finalisation, the following shall be added: After the signing of the Protocol of the second meeting of the Mixed Intergovernmental Commission under art. 12 of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u200	So, I repeat. [[Noise and lines.]] Take it easy, Mrs. Atanasova. We don't accept traffic regulations, do we? It is very important to make it clear that the text read by me and by Mr. Hristo Ivanov actually becomes the last indent. That's right. Please vote on the proposed amendments. Vote 227 MPs: 171, against 36, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. [[Heckling]] Dear representatives of ARGUMENT, I respect your request. Rethink the proposed amendments. Abort the vote and announce the result. Vote 227 MPs: 171 against 37, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u201	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u202	Finally. [[Heckling]] These are the editorials. Now, to be precise, I will read you the whole text of the draft decision with the approved editorials: Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED I. Confirms the conditions under which the Republic of Bulgaria may support any step in the process of European integration of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, namely: 1. Effective implementation of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation from 2017 and the minutes of the meetings of the Joint Intergovernmental Commission under art. 12 of this contract. 2. Guarantee the rights of Bulgarians in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, including by entering them equally with other peoples in the Constitution of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. 3. The existence of European guarantees for the fulfilment of the conditions set out in points 1 and 2. II. To this end, the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria shall approve the draft negotiating framework proposed by the current Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the Council's conclusion under the following conditions: - Precise the text of the draft Council Opinion so as to ensure the entry of Bulgarians in the Constitution of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the provisions in which the other peoples are mentioned and on an equal footing with these peoples; - Improving the proposed draft negotiating framework and draft Council Conclusion in order to better reflect the fact that nothing in the process of accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the European Union can be interpreted as recognition of the Republic of Bulgaria's existence of the Macedonian language; - Include a reference to the Treaty of Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation from 2017 and the Protocols... [[Heckling]] So this is added. [[The National Representative Hristo Ivanov is approaching the Presidential Bank. The President's appointments. Noise and lines.]] Please! The third indent takes the following form: The European Commission shall inform the Council before each intergovernmental conference, of the whole process of accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the European Union, which the European Commission shall inform before each intergovernmental conference. The inclusion of a reference to the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation from 2017 and the minutes of the meetings of the Joint Intergovernmental Commission under art. 12 under this Treaty in the negotiating framework concerning the approval by the Council of the European Union of the common positions on intergovernmental conferences, the European Union, the Republic of Northern Macedonia. On this basis and only in the fulfilment of these conditions, the 40th National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria will expect the Council of Ministers to approve the draft negotiating framework at the same time or after signing the minutes of the second meeting of the Joint Intergovernmental Commission under art. 12 of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation. After all these readings, I think the text is already clear and is correctly recorded in the shorthand protocol. I shall put the text to the vote for a decision. Vote 228 MPs: 170, against 36, abstention 22. The decision's been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u203	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u204	What do you want back there?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u205	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u206	Please, re-election mode. Vote 228 MPs: 170 against 37, abstention 21. The decision's been made. [[Applause from.. We continue the Change, GERB, DB.]] Once again: the decision has been adopted!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u207	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u208	Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u209	I see you're in a hurry to escape the House after you voted this out. If you have the guts, stay for two more minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u210	No, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u211	You don't have the guts, yes. Negative vote. I will speak, you will see me, but you will hear the words of Mr. Slavi Trifonov. [[Laughter, excitement.]] We are just continuing the Change, GERB, DB and DPS adopted the French proposal for northern Macedonia. So what happened now? We have a new coalition. That's pretty surreal! Literally until yesterday for PP Kiril Petkov, for DB Hristo Ivanov, to communicate with GERB and DPS was impossible and the model GERB and DPS had to be cleared of the face of political life in Bulgaria. And today Kiril Petkov, Hristo Ivanov, Delyan Peevski and Boyko Borisov are hugged together to remove the veto over northern Macedonia because this is what France wanted. Both the Bulgarians in Macedonia and the fact that we do not recognize the so-called Macedonian language and hate language among Macedonians, that is not important! It's important to be quieter than the water lower than the grass so we don't upset the Great Powers. As always! Fuck dignity and national self-esteem! That's life! In such complicated times we live, it seems that everyone has to decide for himself. I made my decision and today it became clear why! Slavi Trifonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u212	Which one of you is going to take a negative vote from rebirth?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u213	In the manner of conduct! [[The National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov is approaching the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u214	Mr. Kostadinov, you spoke, so decide which one of you! No, no! Please understand which one of you takes the floor that has not spoken.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Macedonia is Bulgaria's biggest sorrow, unfortunately! She's witnessed huge heroes, spilled heroes' blood, tears of mothers, political betrayals. For us Bulgarians, it is extremely important to be leading in Macedonia's accession negotiations with the European Union. That is why we should not allow violation of the Bulgarian interest and until the Republic of Northern Macedonia starts fulfilling the conditions of the Neighborhood Treaty, we should not and should not give even the slightest sign of the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the European Union. That is why I voted against. Macedonia is Bulgaria! [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u216	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u217	What are you not satisfied with my conduct? Please come in and let me hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u218	Mr. Chairman, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because if I were slightly suspicious, as you are sometimes in your public appearances, I would say that you have been drilled by the KGB and by Mrs. Mitrofanova most likely to deliberately delay this vote. Because I'm not that suspicious, I'm not gonna say that, but I'm gonna ask you... I can't figure out what that was. It's a good thing there was no rereading procedure and you didn't come up with one. Why did you have to call Mr. Ivanov here on the stand to read his editorial proposals one more time?! He did so that you could then read them again. It seemed like a deliberate delay to me at the hearing. [[(Reply from.. Continue ……]] Yes, it's a procedure in the manner of conduct. I'm going to ask Mr. President in a decisive meeting not to lead any more. After all, I want to congratulate the foreign minister Mrs. Genchovska, for her this is an important day at the moment. "Whatever political differences we have, at the moment this is a very great success for Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u219	Mr. Mitov, since you have allowed yourself a very sharp statement, and I am entitled to two minutes under the Rules, I will answer you, but I will be much shorter. In my desk I have a book and once upon a time, when you became Vice-President of the "Democrats for Strong Bulgaria" I had given it to you to read. It's called the Aquarium by Victor Suvorov. If you want, I'll give it to you again, because you obviously didn't read it, so I'll tell you. That's the problem with the whole story, okay? And otherwise I can tell you what's inside this book, so let's see who, what, and why. That's enough. You couldn't raise my blood pressure. That concludes the work on this point and we'll move on to the next one. Mr. Vigenin will continue on the following points because Mr. Daniel Mitov does not want me to lead.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u220	Moving on to the next item on today's agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Who's gonna introduce him? Come in for a procedure before the reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Council of Ministers to vote in the Chamber to allow the following persons to be admitted: Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Manuela Milosheva, Director of the National Fund Directorate at the Ministry of Finance, and Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Director of the Central Coordination Unit of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u222	Thank you. Let's hope there's enough people in the room and let's give it a try. Please, voting mode. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The decision's been made. Please invite Mr. Yaydzhiev, Mrs. Milosheva and Mr. Ivanov. Welcome to the presentation of the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u223	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 47-202-01-29, submitted by The Council of Ministers on 2 June 2022 At a meeting held on 16 June 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance Ivaylo Yaydzhiev Deputy Minister and Antoaneta Arsenova State Expert in the Directorate of the National Fund and representatives of the Council of Ministers Ivan Ivanov Director of the Central Coordination Unit and Radoslava Anachkova State Expert in the Central Coordination Unit. The bill was presented by Ivaylo Yaydzhiev (Deputy Minister of Finance). The proposed draft aims to achieve compliance with the newly established European legal framework regarding the management of funds from the Funds under shared management for the programming period 2021 "2027', based on Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 June 2021 establishing the relevant provisions for the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund plus, the Cohesion Fund, the Fair Transition Fund and the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund, as well as the financial rules for them and for the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the Internal Security Fund and the Financial Assistance for Border Management and Visa Policy (Regulation EU 2021/1060), as well as the relevant Fund Regulations. The changes resulting from Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 relate to the extension of the scope of the new funds for the programming period 2021 - 2027, the strengthening of the responsibility of national authorities and the extension of the functions of the monitoring committees under the individual follow-up programmes. The provisions relating to the certifying authority shall be replaced by the corresponding regulations of the functions of an accounting body for which it is intended to send payment applications to the European Commission. The framework on the attitude of financial instruments is completed, as in art. 5 specify the implementation of the financial instruments through the Holding Fund, as well as the person who will implement the Holding Fund. The regulation aimed at providing support for integrated territorial development has been updated. Some elements of administrative proceedings have been refined with the Bill. The transitional and final provisions provide for the continuation of the current regulation to the European Structural and Investment Funds. The Programme financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development continues to apply, even though it is outside the scope of the regulation referred to above, with the aim of sustainability in the management of EU funds. In order to synchronise the laws in the direction of a clear distinction between the functions of the authorities involved in the various stages of the grant process for integrated territorial investments, changes to the Regional Development Act have been made. The bill is important in the context of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The assessment of the expected consequences of the implementation of the future law, including financial law, is linked to ensuring the introduction of the rules governing the management of EU funds under shared management, while maintaining the basic legal framework with regard to structure, bodies, functions, procedures and procedures. This will contribute to sustainability and predictability, and will be a prerequisite for the timely launch of the procedures in the implementation of the programmes co-financed by the European Funds under shared management during the programming period 2021 - 2027, as soon as they are approved by the European Commission. The proposed changes will not have a direct impact on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. In their written opinions the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria and the Union for Economic Initiative support the Bill. In addition, revision and modification of texts are proposed. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held, which received the following results: 12 "for", 1 "against", without abstention. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 47-202-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u224	Report by the Commission on European Union matters. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 47-202-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 June 2022. At its regular meeting on 23 June 2022, the Commission on European Union Affairs examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act No 47-202-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 June 2022. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Manuela Milosheva, Director of the Directorate of the National Fund and by the Directorate of the Central Coordination Unit at the Administration of the Council of Ministers Ivan Ivanov, Director of the Directorate, and Radoslava Veleva-Anachkova, State Expert in the same Directorate. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance. The proposed draft law amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act (SSECIF) ensures that the system of management of EU funds has continued to be optimized so far and that it improves its effectiveness and efficiency. The adoption of the Law will ensure the implementation of the rules governing EU funds for funds under shared management, maintaining the basic legal framework in terms of structure, bodies, functions, procedures and procedures. The proposed draft aims to achieve compliance with the newly established European legal framework for the management of funds under shared management for the programming period 2021 "2027" based on Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 June 2021 establishing the relevant provisions for the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund plus, the Cohesion Fund, the Fair Transition Fund and the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund, as well as the financial rules for them and for the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the Internal Security Fund and the Financial Assistance for Border Management and Visa Policy (Regulation EU 2021/1060), as well as the relevant Fund Regulations. Maximum harmonisation of national regulations with the European legal framework is ensured, while maintaining the current status of the Law provisions to be applied to the programme, insofar as they do not conflict with the regulations governing support by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the Law on support for farmers or the Act on its implementation. The assessment of the expected consequences of the implementation of the future law, including financial law, is linked to ensuring the introduction of the rules governing the management of EU funds under shared management, while maintaining the basic legal framework with regard to structure, bodies, functions, procedures and procedures. This will contribute to sustainability and predictability, and will be a prerequisite for the timely launch of the procedures in the implementation of the programmes co-financed by the European Funds under shared management during the programming period 2021 - 2027, as soon as they are approved by the European Commission. The proposed amendments with the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds will have no direct impact on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Union Affairs proposed by 9 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 47 202 01 29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u226	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I'm opening the discussion on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. We're closing the discussion. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 47-202-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 June 2022. They voted 142 MPs: 142, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose that the bill adopted in the first vote amending and supplementing the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, No 47-202-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 June 2022, be adopted at a second vote in today's plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u228	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. You have a counterproposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making an additional counter-proposal to shorten the period of three days between first and second readings to make proposals to improve the texts under the Bill with a view to the need to refine texts, especially under § 23. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u230	As far as I understand it, there is a text that is not essential, but it could be made as an editorial proposal. Can't or can't? I will still put to the vote Mr. Sabrutev's proposal because there were no requests for amendments to the texts in the first vote. Just keep in mind, colleagues, that colleagues from GERB have some idea, but still Mr. Sabrutev made a proposal. First, I put to the vote Mr. Sabrutev's proposal that we adopt the Law today and at second reading. Vote 154 MPs: 105, against 33, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u231	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u232	Please, Mrs. Atanasova, tell me, the court will decide. If not, we'll think editorially about an option.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! This morning at the Chairman's Council, we made a commitment to pass this law in two readings before we realized that there are texts from it that must be edited, and these are the proposals of Ms. Denitsa Nikolova and Mr. Tomislav Donchev. I believe their expertise because they've proven it over the years. Please allow all proposals to be made within three days and in the plenary sitting on Wednesday, this to be the first law before the State Budget Act to be voted on. I think we've demonstrated consensus today. In no case is our parliamentary group currently trying to chicify the process of adopting this bill. Moreover, I myself was the importer of the proposal under art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, this bill should be on the agenda today. I therefore really call on you to support a reduction in the period of three days, it is probably a question of a Commission meeting for hours to clarify these proposals, because my fellow Members assure me that at the moment in this House it is difficult to make the amendments. Please, Mr. President, let us rethink Mr. Sabrutev's proposal and then, if he does not receive the support of the House, please also support Mrs. Denitsa Nikolova's proposal to be minimal, namely three days for proposals between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Let me get this straight. In principle, when there are proposals for second reading, this is stated before we vote first. When no such intention has been stated in the discussion at first reading, there is such a agreement of the Presidential Council. That's why it was Mr. Sabrutev's proposal. We are already in a procedure in which I have to submit the proposal of Mr. Sabrutev, but let the House bear in mind Mrs. Atanasova's arguments. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Atanasova, of course, normal practice is when there is an explicit intention, but you do not even come to the Commission, and there was no way in the Committee on the Control of European Funds yesterday to know what comments you have on the Bill. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and non-members in SG.]] When there was this committee, they were called. We agreed with the Ministry of Finance. They said they agreed that this bill would be passed at second reading. Why is it so important, colleagues? Because if it happens next week that the government falls apart, there is no way we will be able to absorb European funds. Whether there will be a government in a month, two months, or half a year, or a year, no one knows yet. Therefore, it is our wish that this bill be adopted as soon as possible. You have that right, but at least come to committee and say those things. How should we know? You didn't say them before, too, and suddenly when we took him in and put him to the vote... If we agree that on Tuesday, before we look at the big budget, this is point one, but I don't know.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u236	We're at a re-voting stage now. Please bear in mind Mrs. Atanasova's arguments. In any case, we must open the possibility, if the proposal for second reading is now accepted, to allow the proposals to be made as editorial when we are going through the texts now. This is gonna complicate things a little bit, but we need to finish this procedure, so please re-vote. Vote 170 MPs: 91, against 64, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. You are welcome to report for a second reading, such as Mrs. Nikolova, respectively Atanasova, perhaps to inform us on which paragraphs you have proposals. We move on to a second reading vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u237	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. § 1. The name of the Law is amended as follows: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, t. 4 the word "Sertification' is replaced by "Accounting'. 2. In para. The first sentence is amended as follows: The European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund plus the Cohesion Fund, the Fair Transition Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund, the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the Internal Security Fund and the financial support for border management and visa policy provided under the programmes of the Republic of Bulgaria. § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 para. 1 is amended as follows: 1 The ESFS funds shall be managed in accordance with horizontal principles and legality, sound financial management, proportionality and transparency through partnership and multi-level management in order to reduce the administrative burden on the beneficiary and in ensuring visibility. § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 2 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words "refundable assistance" and the comma in front of them shall be deleted. 2. In para. 4 after the word "others" shall be added "funds" and the words "in accordance with art. 65, paragraph 11 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down common provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 347,320, 20 December 2013) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 3. The creation of para. 5. s (5) Granted financial assistance may be granted under condition of full or partial recovery, with the conditions set out in the documents referred to in art. 26, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. § 6. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 4a: Art. 4a. (1) Financial instruments shall provide support to final recipients for investments in tangible and intangible assets, as well as to current assets which are expected to be financially viable and for which there is insufficient funding from market sources. (2) Support through financial instruments shall be provided for investment elements which are not physically completed or fully implemented at the date of the investment decision. § 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words, except those referred to in art. 39 of Regulation (EU) No are deleted, the comma in front of them and the comma after them and the words.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. In para. The first sentence of sentence 2 shall be replaced by the "Holding Fund" and the words "the person responsible for the Fund" shall be replaced by the person implementing the Holding Fund. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) The person implementing the Holding Fund is the Fund Manager of Financial Instruments in Bulgaria...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. The creation of para. 6: The order and method of use of the resource under para. 5 shall be determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers on a joint proposal of the Minister of Finance and the Minister responsible for the implementation of the measures to be financed by the resource. § 8. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 5a: Art. 5a. The conditions and rules for providing support through financial instruments, the combination of financial instruments with grants, the implementation of financial instruments and management and control rules shall be determined by a legislative act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. § 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3: (a) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. is responsible for the availability and operation of programmes management and control systems in accordance with the key requirements of Annex XI of Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 June 2021 laying down common provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund plus, the Cohesion Fund, the Fair Transition Fund and the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund, as well as their financial rules and on the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the Internal Security Fund and the Financial Assistance for Border and Visa Policy Management (OB, 231/159 of 30 June 2021) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2021/1060'; (b) c. 8 the words "publicity and transparency" shall be replaced by "visibility," transparency and communication. 2. In para. 4. (a) c. 1 after the words the "European Social Fund" is added the "plus," the "fair transition fund" is added; (b) c. 4 the word "Sertification' is replaced by "Accounting'; the words "Regulation (EU) No' shall be replaced by "Regulation (EU) 2021/1060'; and after the words "Accounting' shall be added "plus', the Fair Transition Fund. § 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: . (1) Bodies under the programmes under art. 3, para. 2, financed by the ESI Funds, are the managing authorities, the accounting authorities and the audit bodies. 2. In para. 3 the words "or" shall be deleted. 3. In para. The first sentence is amended as follows: The accounting authorities shall carry out specific control activities in order to declare reimbursement to the European Commission of expenditure under the programmes under art. 3, para. 2 and drawing up and sending to the European Commission annual accounts under each programme. 4. In para. 7 after the word "regularity', a comma shall be added and a "correction' shall be added. § 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph § 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. The following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 and 3 the word "the priorities' is replaced by "the targets'. 2. Point 4 is repealed. § 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) points 3 and 4 are amended as follows: "3." examine the implementation and monitor progress in the implementation of the programme and progress towards the achievement of intermediate targets and targets; 4. monitor the implementation and implementation of the unlocking conditions throughout the programming period; (b) c. 5 the words "priority axes' or "the priority axes' are deleted; (c) a new item shall be created. 6: It's six. ensure that communication and visibility actions are implemented; (d) shall be established. 7? 9: "7." ensure the progress of the implementation of strategic operations; 8. approve the final report on the quality of implementation of the programmes financed by the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund plus, the Fair Transition Fund and the Cohesion Fund and the annual reports on the quality of implementation of the programmes financed by the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the Internal Security Fund and the Financial Assistance for Border Management and Visa Policy; 9. approve the evaluation plan of the programmes and its amendments; (e) the current t. 6 is going to be t. 10. 2. Alinea 3 is canceled. § 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. The first sentence is amended as follows: ................................................................................... 1 shall be established and their composition shall be determined by a legislative act of the Council of Ministers, subject to the requirements of art. 8 and 39 of Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 and art. 124 of Regulation (EU) 2021/2115 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2 December 2021 laying down support rules for the strategic plans to be drawn up by Member States under the common agricultural policy (CAP strategic plans) and financed by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) and by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and repealing Regulations (EU) No 1305/2013 and (EU) No 1307/2013 (OB, L 435/1 of 6 December 2021) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2021/2115'. 2. Alinea 3 is canceled. § 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the words "two times" shall be replaced by "one time" and "one time" shall be replaced by "one time." 2. In para. 4 words on the Single Information Portal for General Information on the implementation and management of the ESIS shall be replaced by the Single Information Portal for General Information on the implementation and management of EU funds. § 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 2 words on a quarterly basis shall be replaced by an annual one. § 17. In chapter two, in the name of Section III, the word "Information" is replaced by "Visibility," transparency. § 18. Anywhere in art. 18 the word "Statute' is replaced by "visibility', "transparency'. § 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 2 the word "Statute' is replaced by "visibility', "transparency'. § 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. In the end, the principles for reducing administrative burdens, effective, efficient and economical management and control of funds are added. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: (2) The information referred to in para. 1, including the individual data contained therein, may be used for statistical and analytical purposes and published and distributed for the purpose of ensuring publicity and transparency in the management of the funds, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (OB, L 119/1 of 4 May 2016) .?.......................................................................................................... § 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. The first sentence of the first sentence shall be referred to the act published in the ISAN. § 22. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 22a: Art. 22a. For the purposes of carrying out proceedings before the managing authorities of the EMU, integration with other relevant registers maintained by the public authorities and administrations shall be established to obtain the necessary information from the relevant primary data administrator. § 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) After the words under para. A comma shall be placed, added in the case of the provision of support from more than one fund by the authority under para. 1 of the lead fund and a comma is placed; (b) a sentence second shall be created: In the case of a VMR strategy supported by more than one fund, the grant financial assistance shall be provided by the body under para. 1 of the leading fund. 2. Allinei 3 "5" is hereby revoked. 3. They're creating an al. 6 and 7: The grant financial assistance for the implementation of the "Integrating capital investments' approach, hereinafter referred to as "ITI', shall be provided by the authorities under para. 1 on the basis of submitted project proposals in implementation of approved under the Law on Regional Development and the implementing acts for the ITI concept. (7) In case of combined support through a financial instrument and grants under a single financial instrument operation and of a financing agreement, the grant financial assistance shall be provided by the entity implementing the financial instrument. § 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 1, t. 1 after the words the project proposals shall be commaed and a selection of project proposals shall be added in implementation of an approved ITI concept and the words shall be added to large projects within the meaning of art. 100 of Regulation (EU) No are deleted. § 25. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the words the Managing Authority shall be a comma and the Union shall be replaced by the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) The draft documents referred to in para. 1 in the case of selection procedures shall be published in the ESA before they are submitted for validation. Information on the draft documents published in the ISAN shall be published on the website of the programme concerned and/or on the Single Information Portal. Interested parties may submit written proposals and objections to the draft documents by means of ISU within a period set by the managing authority which may not be shorter than one week. Chapter 5 of Section II of the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply to outstanding issues relating to the discussion of the proposals and objections received. 3. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: . (6) The validated documents under para. 1 shall be communicated to all interested parties, together with the notice of initiation by selection, together with the invitation to participate in the procedure by direct delivery. Information on the validated documents published in the ISAN shall be published on the website of the programme concerned and/or in the Single Information Portal. § 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 6, in the second sentence, a comma is finally placed and half of the fee due per sentence is collected for proceedings under Chapter 12 of the Administrative Procedure Code, but not less than BGN 100. § 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, para. 1 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." rules on the application of the VMR approach for the relevant programming period. § 28. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 1 is created t. "4." respect for fundamental rights; 5. sustainable development; 6. Environmental protection. § 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 34 The Head of the Managing Authority shall terminate the proceedings with regard to a candidate whose project proposal is included in the list under para. 1 and he has not submitted an objection within the time limit and under the order of para. 3. The notice of termination of proceedings shall be issued within two weeks of the notification to the applicant of the non-compliance, respectively in accordance with art. 22, para. 3 or 4. § 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: . (3) When for the verification of the circumstances under para. 2 it is necessary to issue documents by authorities or institutions outside the country, the period may be extended by 30 days. 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. § 31. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3: (a) c. 3 the words "priority axis' shall be replaced by "priority axis'; (b) point 5 is repealed. 2. The creation of para. 5. . (5) Candidates whose project proposals are included in the list under art. 35, p. 2 shall be notified of this within the period referred to in paragraph 2. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. § 32. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38 the number § 33. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 3 in the sentence first, the words "same in point (b) of point (i) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No" shall be replaced by "supplies 1 in Regulation (EU) 2021/1060" and the second sentence shall be deleted. § 34. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 a new sentence is created first: The selection of VMR strategies shall be carried out through a joint call from the managing authorities involved in the financing of the VMR approach. 2. In para. The second sentence is created: In providing support from more than one fund, the managing authorities may choose one of the funds as the lead fund by applying the rules of the lead fund in compliance with the scope and eligibility rules of each of the funds involved in providing support for the strategy. 3. In para. 3 after the words the Managing Authority (s) shall be added to the Single Information Portal (s). § 35. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42, para. 2 and 3 the number..34.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... § 36. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the Union is replaced by a comma, and after the words the programme is a comma, it is added to either an ITI concept approved in the respective row and a comma is placed. 2. In para. 2 t. 4 and 5 are canceled. § 37. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 comma after the words "system project" is replaced by the Union "and the words "big project" within the meaning of art. 100 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and a joint action plan within the meaning of art. 104 of that Regulation and the comma in front of them are deleted. 2. In para. 2 words of a major project within the meaning of art. 100 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and of a joint action plan within the meaning of art. 104 of that Regulation and the comma in front of them are deleted. § 38. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In the main text, after the words "one time period', a comma is added, it is added "for integrated project proposals' within a 10-day period' and a comma is placed. 2. Points 4 and 5 are repealed. § 39. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, § 40. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinea 3 is canceled. 2. In para. 5 the words "Alinei 1 " 3" are replaced by "Alinei 1" and "Alinei 1" and "2" are replaced by "Alinei 1" and "Alinei 1" are replaced by "Alinei 1" and "Alinei 1" are § 41. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50, para. 1 after the word "Employment" a comma shall be placed and a respect of fundamental rights shall be added. § 42. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) the words (b) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." unit (c) c. 3 words which do not exceed the equivalent of EUR 100 000 of public contribution and the comma in front of them shall be deleted; (d) shall be established. 5. It's five o'clock. non-cost-related financing. 2. In para. 2 after the words "Forms" under para. 1 is a comma and is added. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the § 43. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56, para. 2 the words "recoverable aid" or "recoverable aid" shall be deleted and the words "art." 37 (7) of Regulation (EU) No are replaced by the one referred to in the act referred to in art. 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m. § 44. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 the words "costs' are for activities corresponding to the criteria for selection of operations and are replaced by "costs' for activities corresponding to those provided for in the approved project. (b) A new item shall be created. 3: "3." the costs do not exceed the thresholds for the relevant category in the documents referred to in art. 26, para. 1 and in the approved project; c) the current t. 3 becomes t. 4 and is amended as follows: "4." the costs are for really delivered products, services, construction and installation works and work; (d) the so-called t. 4 and 5 are respectively t. 5 and 6; (e) the current t. 6 is going to be t. 7 and is amended as follows: "7." For expenditure incurred, an audit trail shall be available in accordance with the minimum requirements of Annex XIII to Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 and shall comply with the document retention requirements under art. 82 of Regulation (EU) 2021/1060; (f) the current t. 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 2. In para. 2 is finally a comma and is added except in the case of art. 59. § 45. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58, para. 2 the word "only" shall be deleted and the words "under the conditions of art. 70 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, when they are carried out outside the area of call, shall be replaced by... when they are carried out outside, provided that they contribute to the objectives of the programme........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ § 46. Section I of Chapter Five establishes art. 59a: Art. 59a. (1) In the event of exceptional or unusual circumstances under art. 20 of Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 and on the basis of an implementing decision issued by the European Commission shall be considered eligible expenditure for operations which are physically completed or fully implemented before the submission of a project proposal from the beneficiary to the managing authority, provided that the operation is in response to the circumstances. (2) The costs of operations may be recognised as admissible from the date of confirmation of the occurrence of the circumstances under the terms and conditions of art. 20 of Regulation (EU) 2021/1060. § 47. In Chapter 5, in the title of Section II, the word "Sertification' is replaced by "Sertification'. § 48. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60, para. 3 the figure § 49. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 1 the number § 50. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64, para. A sentence 2 shall be created: A refusal of verification shall also be issued for the establishment of unduely paid and overpaid amounts of the project following verification carried out. § 51. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 64a: Art. 64a. (1) The amounts established unduly paid and overpaid shall be reimbursed from payments under the project. Where a refusal of verification has been issued after the relevant payment, the amounts unduly paid and overpaid shall be reimbursed by voluntary execution by the beneficiary within 14 days. After the expiry of the voluntary payment period, the amounts unduly paid and overpaid shall be taken from a subsequent payment under the project, together with the interest due for default and, where this is not claimed, by exercising rights under the collateral granted by the beneficiary under art. 61, para. 2, in order and manner defined in the legal act referred to in art. 7, para. 4 t. 4. (2) After the final payment of the project established and not recovered unduly paid and overpaid amounts shall be a public claim according to art. 162, para. 2, p. 8 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. § 52. Article 65 shall be repealed. § 53. Article 66 is amended as follows: Art. 66. (1) The accounting authority shall draw up and send to the European Commission an application for payment under each programme up to six times a year in which it shall include verified expenditure by the managing authorities. (2) The accounting authority shall not include expenditure in an application for payment: 1. for which a financial correction is imposed, determined in accordance with the order of art. 73, after the date of verification, but within the period covered by the application for payment; 2. for which information has been received about the proceedings or verification by the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the European Prosecution Office, OLAF and the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u238	Mr. Shalafov, perhaps Mrs. Angova can replace you a bit?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u240	s (3) The accounting authority shall exclude from an application for payment already claimed to the European Commission expenditure for which the managing authority has determined a financial correction or has determined that they are unduly paid or overpaid. (4) The accounting authority shall not send an application for payment under a programme or part of a programme where there is an audit assessment that the management and control system of the managing authority as a whole does not function or function in part and significant improvements are required. § 54. Article 67 shall be repealed. § 55. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 68 After the words the European Social Fund (ESF) is added, plus, the Fair Crossing Fund is added. § 56. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69, para. 1 after the word "irregularities', a point shall be placed and the text to the end shall be deleted. § 57. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 3 words under art. Art. 4, par. 8, art. 7 and 8 of Regulation (EU) No Art. 33, Art. Art. 36, par. 1, art. 61 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1046 (b) c. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / (c) c. 6 the word "sight, transparency' is replaced by "visibility'; (d) point 10 is amended as follows: ..10. for another violation of the applicable law of the European Union and/or the Bulgarian legislation and/or contracts concluded between the States, ratified, promulgated and entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria under the European territorial cooperation programmes carried out by action or omission by the beneficiary, which has or would have the effect of harming the resources of the ESSU. 2. The creation of para. 3: . (3) For irregularities under para. 1, t. 1, 3 - 7 and 9 - financial corrections are determined by the proportionate method where the amount of the financial consequences of the infringement can not be determined but for irregularities under para. 1, t. 2, 8 and 10 shall apply the differential method. § 58. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71, para. 1 the word "Sertified' is replaced by "Sertified'. § 59. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74 the words "certifying' or "certifying' are deleted. § 60. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77, para. 1 the words "sertification certificate' are deleted. § 61. Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments: 1. Point 2 is repealed. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the words " 2014 " 2020" shall be replaced by " 2021" "2027". 3. Point 6 is repealed. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 the number (s) is replaced by the words (s) and (s) of the Regulation (EU) No are replaced by the number (s) 2021/1060 is replaced by the words (s) and (s) of the Regulation (s) of the European Parliament and of the Council (s) of the European Parliament and of the Council (s) of the European § 62. Paragraph 2 of the additional provisions is repealed. § 63. Paragraph 4 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments: 1. In para. 1 the words "Rural development' shall be replaced by "Strategic plan for the development of agriculture and rural areas' and the words "Safety of agriculture, food and forestry' shall be replaced by "Strategic plan for the development of agriculture and rural areas'. 2. In para. 2 the word "supplier" is replaced by "plan." 3. In para. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures referred to in Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 (OJ L 347, 487 of 20 December 2013). and Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy and repealing Council Regulations (EEC) No This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures referred to in point (b) of Article 2 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It's all right, it's all right, it's all right. 4. Alinea 4 is canceled. § 64. Paragraph 5 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: the word "Sertification" is replaced by "Accounting Reporting." 2. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." the management bodies and national authorities shall exercise powers in the administration of irregularities and financial corrections pursuant to Section III of Chapter 5; when making financial corrections, the management bodies and the national authorities shall apply the categories of irregularities and the minimum and maximum values of the percentage indicators set out in this Law and with the act referred to in Article 1. 70, para. 2. § 65. Paragraph 6 of the additional provisions shall be amended as follows: ........................................................... The regional managements of education, public, municipal and private kindergartens and schools, the support centres for personal development and specialized service units under the Pre-school and School Education Act and the State and Private Higher Schools and the Scientific Organizations under the Higher Education Act may participate in technical and/or financial implementation, including expenditure on projects with the specific beneficiary, the Ministry of Education and Science financed under the Operational Programme § 66. Paragraph 6b shall be inserted in the additional provisions: 6b. For the purposes of statistical validation of results indicators under the programmes under art. 3, para. 2 with source National Statistical Institute the same provides the process of data collection and processing for these indicators. § 67. Paragraph 7 of the additional provisions shall be amended as follows: .................................................... (1) This law lays down implementing measures for Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 June 2021 laying down the common provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund plus, the Cohesion Fund, the Fair Transition Fund and the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund, as well as their financial rules and on the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the Internal Security Fund and the Financial Assistance for Border Management and Visa Policy. (2) The provisions of this Law shall apply subject to the requirements of delegated and implementing acts adopted by the European Commission under Regulation (EU) 2021/1060. § 68. In § 9 of the transitional and final provisions, the words "The person responsible for the Fund of Funds' shall be replaced by the person implementing the Holding Fund, managing the Fund of Funds for Financial Instruments co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period, as well as "the person ending up with a comma and adding 'the resources transferred under art. 5, para. 5 of the rural development programme co-financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development for the 2007-2013 programming period § 69. All over the law: 1. The words "European Structural and Investment Funds" shall be replaced by "European Funds in the field of management." 2. The abbreviation "ESIF' is replaced by "EFSU'. 3. The words "Sertifying', "Sertifying', "Sertifying' and "Sertifying' shall be replaced by "Sertifying' respectively, "Accounting', "Accounting' and "Accounting' respectively. Transitional and final provisions § 70. Until the end of the programmes for the programming period 2014-2020 co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds (ESF), the provisions of the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act repealed or amended by this Act shall retain their effect on the management of the ESI Funds as well as on the implementation and control of these programmes. § 71. (1) Within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Finance shall adopt or align with it the regulations on the application of the European Funds Fund Management Act under shared management. (2) The regulations adopted by the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Finance until the entry into force of this Act shall remain effective in respect of the programming period 2014 (3) The normal acts under para. 2 shall apply until the adoption of the acts under para. 1 and for the programming period 2021 - 2027 insofar as they do not conflict with this law. § 72. In the Law on Regional Development (prom., SG No. 50, 2008, as amended. and Dop., No. 47, 82 and 93 of 2009, No. 82, 2012, No. No. 66 of 2013, No. 22 and 98 of 2014, No. 9 and 14 of 2015, p. 15 of 2016, p. 13 and 58 of 2017, No. 28 of 2018 and No. 21 from 2020) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 16 the words "European Structural and Investment Funds" shall be replaced by "European Funds in the field of management" and "European Structural and Investment Funds" shall be replaced by the words "European Structural and Investment Funds" shall be replaced by the words "European Structural and Investment Funds in the field of 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." participate in the process of selecting concepts for integrated territorial investment co-financed by the European Funds under shared management, by other European funds and financial sources, including financial instruments, and by relevant national co-financing, in implementation of the integrated territorial development strategy of the Level 2 planning region; (b) c. 4 the words "European Structural and Investment Funds" shall be replaced by the "European Funds" in the field of management. § 73. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Angova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u243	The entire bill was presented. Now I would like to ask Mrs. Nikolova and Mrs. Sabrutev to give me a clue as to whether we have any readiness, in the sense of knowing whether there is a need for more time, or whether we are going to propose texts and vote. [[The references between President Christian Vigenin and the MPs Venko Sabrutev and Desislava Atanasova.]] I propose that we do the following.. to accept that the proposal under § 23 is editorial, I will put it to the vote. Ms. Nikolova can do it and motivate him anyway, I am opening a discussion on the Second Reading Bill. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u244	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the course of the review of the texts included in the amendment of the European Union Fund Management Act and the proposed amendments made under Paragraph 23, point 3, I think it is defined that the grant financial assistance for the implementation of the integrated territorial investment approach, hereinafter referred to as the ITI, is presented by the authorities under para. 1 on the basis of submitted project proposals and in the implementation of approved under the Regional Development Act and its implementing acts, the concept of integrated territorial investment. According to the Regional Development Act, the main strategic document implementing regional policy at level 2 is the integrated territorial strategy and thus defined the Regional Development Act as regards the applicability of regional policy at present. In this direction, in so far as integrated territorial investment is an element of funding mainly by the operational programmes and with additional co-financing by the national budget, the definition of a concept within § 23 is not applicable and can lead to a complete delay in the implementation of one of the main infrastructure programmes, namely this is the Operational Programme for the Development of Regions. In retrospect, the model includes an opportunity to approach from the bottom up with regard to implementation of infrastructure measures at regional level, and for the first time as a result of regional policy reform, there will be an opportunity in the course of implementation of the Operational Programme for the Development of Regions to participate a group of stakeholders in the implementation of project proposals and, accordingly, a much wider range of stakeholders to have the opportunity to implement the investment process, of course, on the principle from below through the necessary public support at regional level. At present, the main strategic document which defines the possibility of implementing the Operational Programme the integrated territorial strategy at level 2 and the concepts are an element of defining within the application guidelines when approving the requirements, criteria and approach for implementing the relevant operations for integrated territorial investment. That's why my proposal is to reform § 23, t. 3 as a text in the framework of the proposals.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u245	That is to say,................................................................... Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u246	In accordance with the Regional Development Act and its implementing acts, the "Integrating Strategies'...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u247	Okay. We wait for Mrs. Nikolova to give only the final text. Are there any other speeches? You mean lines, first of all, on the way you said it? Mr. Yaydjiev wants the word as an importer. I think we should hear it on this proposal. Here you go, Mr. Yaydzhiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, just to clarify that the debate we have with our colleagues from GERB is related to the way of legal spelling, that is, we have no disagreement with the entity of the approach, and we fully agree that such an approach, which is from the bottom up, which includes the communities in the decision making, is absolutely correct and this is the approach that we are introducing with this bill. The question before us is whether there is a purely legal question as to whether this law should include the concept idea. We have written it down because in this law we only regulate how money will be financed, which is provided according to the strategic logic of the other law. So what we do is we say that in the Law, which is in its order and where it belongs, a concept will be defined, and in Zuceif we say that we follow the rules of selection of money in relation to the grant of financial assistance to these concepts. What we think is the case is that the Law, so signed, does not contradict the approach we are looking for, together we all agree to sign, and does not delay the implementation of the programmes, as it talks about the order of granting grants and not about how these concepts will be drawn up. In short, we propose to remain the current signing of this law because we do not see the need to change it in order to achieve the results that colleagues from GERB presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u249	Thank you, Mr. Yaydzhiev. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm only waiting for Mrs. Nikolova's text. We're about to move on to a vote. First, I will put Mrs Nikolova's proposal to the vote and then the whole text, the title and all the paragraphs. [[Heckling]] Excuse me? Yeah, she's gonna make an editorial proposal. She did, but I'm waiting for the specific text. We'll vote him first, just until the coworkers get together. Colleagues under § 23, t. 3, para. 6 is proposed to acquire the following version: The grant financial assistance for the implementation of the "Integrating capital investments' approach, hereinafter referred to as "ITI', shall be provided by the authorities under para. 1 on the basis of submitted project proposals in implementation of approved under the Law on Regional Development and its implementing acts I shall put this editorial proposal to the vote first. The proposal is from Mrs. Nikolova, I must clarify for colleagues who were not here, that according to the importer there is no problem with the text, but we have given Mrs. Nikolova the opportunity to make this editorial proposal. Please, voting mode. Vote 187 MPs: 90 against 71, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Now I'm putting it to the vote... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] GERB-SDS wants a re-vote. Please, re-election mode. Please call off the vote. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I've shut it down already. [[The People's Representative Assen Baltov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u250	Wait, wait, wait!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u251	It's still not gonna happen with that voice. They voted 188 MPs: for 85, against 73, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the name of the Law and paragraphs 1 to 73 inclusive. They voted 143 MPs: 142, against none, abstention 1. The bill was also adopted at second reading. You can start to absorb how many billion were.. 2.6 [[Laughter]] , but first to be promulgated. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PUBLIC PRESENTATION OF THE PRINCIPAL SECURITY. There is a report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. Who's gonna introduce him? Mr. Dimitrov, you? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u252	Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u253	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First, procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance [[SIGHS]] , he is here, but in order to continue to be here, a fellow Member, we must continue his clearance, and Mrs Elena Petrova is the Head of the Department of Capital Markets. From the Financial Supervision Commission Mrs. Maria Filipova Vice-President and Mr. Milen Milev Head of the Department of Normal activity and methodology.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u254	Are these the persons you're asking for access to?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u256	Thank you. My fellow Members, I am voting on the procedural proposal for admission. Vote 120 MPs: 118 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall Mr. Yaydzhiev, Mr. Milev, Mrs. Petrova and Mrs. Filipova. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u257	"Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities No 47-202-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2022, adopted in the first vote on 1 June 2022." The Law on the Public Offering of Securities is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 1 the following amendments and 1. A new t. is created. 5. It's five o'clock. the requirements for the provision of collective financing services, including for the organisation, licensing and supervision of collective financing service providers, for the operation of collective financing platforms, for transparency and marketing communications in relation to the provision of collective financing services; 2. Previously on "T." 5 is going to be t. 6................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 and in the text prior to that. 1 the following amendments and additions shall be added at the end. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 89c, para. 1 the number....3 000 000 is replaced by..8 000 The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 89d, para. 1 number..3 000 000... 8 000 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u258	We can stop here. I open the discussion on the name of the bill and paragraphs 1 " 7. Are there any people who want to make a statement, colleagues? I can't see. I will put to the vote all the texts, as they were read by Mr. Martin Dimitrov Anblok, the name of the draft Law, § 1, which is in the version of the Commission; § 2, which is an importer, with an added text, as well as was read by Mr. Dimitrov; § 3, which is in the version of the Commission; the proposal for a new § 4; § 4, which becomes § 5 and is in the version of the Commission; § 5, which is an importer and becomes § 6; § 6 and § 7 which are also an importer and become respectively § 7 and § 8. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. That's how the offer is accepted. Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u259	They have a procedural proposal, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u260	Here you are, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u261	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 The texts which are in this bill for the second vote shall not be read in the Chamber, as they are legal and technical, specifying, clearing the text. [[(Applause and cheering:]] If a colleague has any objections at all, he may do so, but I think there is no point in making editorial amendments right now. The texts will be applied to the stenographic protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. All right, folks, we'll proceed the way Mrs. Miteva suggested.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u263	To vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u264	All right, we're going to put this motion to a vote, though. We are voting, fellow Members, the proposal made by Mrs. Iva Miteva, the texts of the report with proposals not to be read by Mr. Martin Dimitrov. Unless there are objections in the courtroom. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. That's how the offer is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u265	Okay, guys, so we're going into this regime of art. 80, para. 1. Paragraph 8 "We are on page 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u266	And then on the ninth.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u267	We're going, guys, on page nine of the report. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: The editing of § 9 can be seen on page 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 by the middle of page 15. Yes, on the Commission report to be annexed to the stenographic protocol. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10, after the word "al." The text before this entry is added to the text. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. We're going, colleagues, on page 17 of the Commission Report. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11. This version of the Commission Report sees at the end of page 17, page 18 and half of page 19 of the Commission Report. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 13, which becomes § 14. This version of the Commission report you see at the end of page 20 and on page 21, colleagues. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 15. This version, fellow Members, you see at the beginning of page 22 of the Commission Report. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for §16 which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u268	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Let's stop here. I open the discussion on so-read texts. Are there any people who want to make a statement, colleagues? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 8 which is in the version of the Commission and which shall become § 9; § 9 which shall be an importer with amendments made by the Commission and shall become §10; §10 which shall be an version of the Commission which shall become § 11; paragraphs 11 and 12 which shall be an importer and shall become paragraphs 12 and 13; paragraphs 13 and 14, respectively which shall be an version of the Commission which shall become § 14 and § 15; paragraphs 15, 16, 17 and 18 respectively which shall be an importer and shall become 16, 17, 18 and 19. They voted 105 MPs: 100, none, abstention 5. With this, the proposals have been accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Dimitrov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u269	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name be amended as follows: The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 19 and proposes to be rejected. We're going on page 26, colleagues, on the Commission report. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, i.e. 12, point (a) and point (b) of point (a) of point (a) of point (b) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (ii) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (ii) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (ii) of point (i) of point (ii) of point (i) of point (i) of point (ii) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (ii) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 by means of an amendment. This version of the Commission Report begins on page 36, continues on page 37 and ends at 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 by: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 letter (s) (i.e. point (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013) 17 is finally added within the meaning of Regulation (EU) 2020/1503 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 October 2020 on European providers of enterprise collective finance services and amending Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 and Directive (EU) 2019/1937 (OB, L 347/1 of 20 October 2020). , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2020/1503'. We're on page 41 now. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 23, which you see on page 41 of the Commission Report. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24 as in para. 5 and 6 the word "may" is replaced by "may." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of § 26, which you see on page 43, colleagues. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28. This version, fellow Members, you see it on the second half of the 44th page of the Commission Report. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of § 29, which you can see on page 45. If you wish, Mr. Chairman, let's stop before § 30, as there is a proposal here of a Member of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u270	All right, Mr. Dimitrov, let's stop here. I am opening a discussion, colleagues, on the texts read by Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Honest Mitev for a statement. Come in, Mr. Mitev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u271	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to make a very brief statement. Just to congratulate that today, despite the two days in which we could not get together, we have a quorum today and we will be able to adopt such a significant and significant law for the Bulgarian economy. I do not know if everyone in the Chamber realises this, but with the adoption of this law we will allow a new mechanism and a new volume of funding for the Bulgarian companies, so I hope this bill will receive support in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u272	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines, coworkers? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I shall put to the vote the name of the division which is in the version of the Commission, the motion to reject § 19; § 20 which is an importer with corrections made by the Commission; § 21 which is an importer with corrections by the Commission; paragraphs 22, 23 and 24 which are an importer and are also subject to corrections by the Commission; § 25 which is an importer; § 26, which is an importer; § 27, which is an importer; paragraphs 28 and 29 which are also in the version of the Commission. I put them to the vote anbloc, if § 19 is rejected, the next will be renumbered. They voted 109 MPs: 101, none, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u273	Colleagues, we are on page 45 of the Commission Report There is a proposal from the MP Vladislav Panev on page 47. On the basis of art. 79, para. 1 sentence, third and fourth of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission accepts the proposal as inadmissible and does not consider it to be material. I propose to you on the basis of art. 80, para. 2th sentence 3rd of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly not to consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible, as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30. You can see the editing at the end of page 47 on the entire 48th page and at the top of page 49. Paragraph 31 follows: the Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 32, which you see at the end of page 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u274	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I am opening a discussion on the read texts, honourable Members. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I terminate the discussion and put the following texts to the vote: § 30, which is in the version of the Commission; § 31, which is by importer, and § 32, which is also in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u275	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to cancel the vote and I would like to make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u276	Abort the vote. We're listening, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u277	The proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Vladislav Panev was not allowed to vote because the Commission considered it to be outside the scope of the bill. Therefore, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2th sentence, third of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I suggest that we vote that we do not consider or vote on the substance of this proposal as inadmissible, as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. [[Heckling]] That's the way it is under the new rules, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u278	You're absolutely right, Mr. Dimitrov. Colleagues, I am voting on the Commission's proposal not to allow the vote made by Mr. Vladislav Panev, which means that if you vote on, this proposal will not be voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u279	We assume it's out of the scope of the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u280	Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I am now voting § 30 in the version of the Commission, § 31 by importer and § 32, which is also in the version of the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 99, none, abstention 8. With this, the proposals have been adopted and the Second Voting Bill. With this, we have exhausted this item on the agenda. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] We thank Mr. Dimitrov. Colleagues, we're moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. I will read written answers to questions and questions for the period from 17 June to 23 June 2022. Written responses have been received from: - Minister Aleksandar Nikolov on a question from the National Representative Desislava Atanasova, the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov and the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister Asena Serbenova on a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister Atanas Atanasov on questions from the MPs Ivaylo Mirchev, Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev, and Tsveta Galunova; - Minister Bozidar Bojanov on a question from the National Representative Elisaveta Belobradova; - Minister Boyko Rashkov on questions from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev, Nikola Dimitrov, two questions from Mr. Hristo Terziyski and a question from the MP Stoil Stoilov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadzhov for questions from the MPs Elisaveta Belobradova, Zlatomira Mostrova and Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister Dragomir Zakov on questions from the MPs Ivaylo Mirchev and Nikolay Radulov; - Minister Ivan Ivanov of questions from the following MPs: Alexander Dunchev "two," Elisaveta Belobradova, three questions from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva, question from Mladen Shishkov, Zornitsa Stratieva and Alexander Dunchev; - Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimitrov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Industry Mrs. Cornelia Ninova to a question from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev, Petar Kulenski and Ivaylo Shotev; - Minister Nadezhda Yordanova to two questions from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister Nikolay Denkov on questions from Elisaveta Belobradova, Martin Dimitrov and Yavor Bojankov; - Minister Nikolay Subev on questions of Blagovest Belev and Mr. Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Radostin Vassilev on a question from the National Representative Inna Ivanova; - Minister Teodora Gencovska on a question from the National Representative Elena Guncheva and from Mr. Petar Petrov. I welcome you, Minister Atanas Atanasov! We begin with our questions to him, as in today's parliamentary control they will not be able to participate because of urgent commitments the Minister of Foreign Affairs resigned Mrs. Teodora Gencovska and Mrs. Asena Serbenova, the Minister of Health, also resigned. We move on to a question from the National Representative Tsveta Galunova on a meeting for organizing a new branch contract for the sector. Mrs. Galunova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! On the first July of this year, the Branch Treaty concluded in November 2020 between trade unions, employers and the Ministry expires. Trade union leaders and industry representatives have had a series of talks, including with Deputy Minister Veselka Kondakova, asking to gather the Trilateral Council and start discussing a new branch contract as early as March. On behalf of the Ministry of Culture, trade unions have received assurances that this will happen as soon as possible. To date, no one has called them or asked them out on a date. This is dated June 8th. Do you plan to schedule such a meeting, which is essential and mandatory for the continuation of the normal work of the theatres? If so, would you commit yourself to a period within which the meeting could take place and not put it in an indefinite time frame that would leave those working in the industry unaware and long-term unknown to the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u283	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Galunova, I fully agree that the meetings between the Ministry of Culture and trade unions and employers are important for improving the work in the sector. In this regard, I would like to inform you that on 17 June the Growing Council held a meeting and, as early as next week, on 28 June, the new branch collective work contract will be signed. I dare say that informal dialogue has never been interrupted and talks have been held and they continue to be held with both trade unions and employers, but on 28 June the Treaty will be signed next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u284	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line, you have the floor, Mrs. Galunova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your quick reaction. As I mentioned, the question was introduced on 8 June. I am glad that you have taken action and that this meeting will take place on 28 June.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. A hole? The next question, Mrs. Galunova, is from you again, and concerns the guarantee of the Fund of the Work Salary for the Sector "Performing Arts" by Decree of the Council of Ministers No 328 of 26 November 2020. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, in relation to the declared pandemic of COVID-19 in 2020, measures were taken to ensure the payment of artists working in the field of performing arts. In closed rooms it has been decided that the Fund will be guaranteed and removed from the delegated budget system. Thus, during the declared pandemic, the theatres and operas were working on mixed funding, which worked in the sector, along with the trade unions, welcomed and reported as a good move by the then government. This mixed funding methodology has been voted on to function until March of this year. The desire of the trade unions, agreed with the whole industry, is that this situation should be voted as a permanent one, not only as a temporary measure during a pandemic. On what legal basis and provision does the mixed funding and guarantee system take place for the Fund, which is separate from the delegated budget after 31 March this year? Does the Ministry intend to legitimize a good and working measure, such as the separation and guarantee of the Fund, with the extension of the Council of Ministers' Decree No 328 of 26 November 2020 or the issuance of a new decree of the Council of Ministers in order to bring at least some peace to those working in the industry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u288	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u289	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Galunova, I will begin my answer with a clarification on the wording of the question. Mixed funding in the Ministry of Culture is the co-financing of the state cultural institutes, which is provided by the municipalities in which these institutes are located. We assumed that your question was aimed at additional funding, which the Ministry of Culture provided for the stage institutes during the climate crisis. Stage institutes shall be supported by the following mechanism: against generated revenue from activity they shall receive counter-financing from the budget. Kovid's crisis caused the stage institutes to fail to form the necessary amount of revenue to secure their activities. Our analysis showed that in almost fully restored activity of the institutes the attendance of the performances was about 40%, so in 2022 the Ministry of Culture twice activated measures to support the institutes. From January 1st to March 31st, the PMS provided a fund for a work salary because of the pandemic situation and from April 1st to June 30th again with a decree of the Council of Ministers provided a fund for a work salary and the reasons were mentioned this time at the beginning of my reply. The Institutes are active, but the audience has not returned yet, meaning the revenues are not sufficient to secure the activity. In parallel, data have been collected in different categories and new formulas are currently being developed to be proposed as soon as possible and will ensure the peaceful functioning of the stage institutes. In the proposed state budget update, the Ministry of Finance had no legal basis to bet an additional resource to compensate for the deficit in the budget of the stage institutes. This was the reason why the Ministry of Culture gave an additional opinion, with which it motivated two changes in part of the State Budget Act. First, an increase of 36 million for the Programme of Performing Arts, which by decree of the Council of Ministers could reach the institutes. And secondly, an increase of 2 million 580 thousand for the Program..... which would equalize the standard by which they operate, with that of museums and galleries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u290	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a line, Mrs. Galunova? Okay. The next question is colleagues from the MPs Lyuben Dilov and Toma Bikov about the inability to carry out and register expert assessment and identification of intangible cultural heritage. Mr. Dilov, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in the Law on Cultural Heritage, in art. 43a describes the ways in which a cultural heritage is identified, whether material or intangible. This happens in the same way.. you collect experts who assess whether the given phenomenon or subject is a cultural historical heritage and what exactly its character is. The problem we are dealing with is that the intangible cultural heritage is traditions, songs, traditions, customs, recipes, are identified in exactly the same way as the material one. However, the problem is that for a long time there has not been a type form to verify the work of experts, that is, even if they found that one thing is a cultural historical heritage and should fall under the protection of the law, they cannot finish their work with some final act. What's this about? It is said that the Ministry of Culture should produce a type form, not a law, not a regulation, not a regulation, but a type form, on which to sign the experts. The very specific case that I am dealing with with you, and please, if such a form was accidentally made for the time when I asked you the question up to its answer, pay attention to the fact that from 13 July 2020 the Regional Museum of History has established six positions for intangible cultural heritage related to a unique facility that has emerged in Bulgaria. This is Copene scaffolding, an extremely romantic place, all colleagues who have not visited them, when they are comfortable, where they have really formed a natural Ether, so we can call it modern, only that in which fishermen live in a manner of manner and make a living in a way that was characteristic of them 50 years ago, preserving almost all customs, traditions and knitting of nets, special ways of storing and preparing fish. And all of this is really a very living, rich cultural heritage that one can touch, see, and not in a museum, but live, as it exists. For example, they cannot obtain the necessary protection that will enable them to make programs, to do trainings, because there is not a single form. Mr. Minister, my question is: is the Ministry doing something in this direction and soon to obtain such a pattern? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u292	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. You have the floor to answer, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u293	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dilov, just to say that I am not familiar with this example, which you just told, because it was not included in the question we received, but it is really very interesting. Here is the answer the Ministry has prepared. For the identification of elements of intangible cultural heritage under the UNESCO Convention on the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage, it is necessary for each State to establish one or more registers of intangible heritage in its territory. In implementation of the Convention and the Cultural Heritage Act of the Ministry of Culture together with the scientists from the Institute for Etymology and Folkloretics with Ethnographic Museum was developed Register of Elements of Intangible Cultural Heritage in the Republic of Bulgaria. A procedure has been established for the registration of new elements in the Register pursuant to Regulation No 1 of 8 May 2013 on the procedure for keeping the Register of Intangible Cultural Heritage of the Republic of Bulgaria, which regulates the order and the necessary documents for carrying out identification and entry in the Register. This procedure begins on a written proposal made by a community center, a museum, a local center for intangible cultural heritage or the National Center for Intangible Cultural Heritage. On the proposed proposal, a committee of three experts in the relevant field shall prepare a report on seclusion, vitality, sustainability and continuity in the practice of the element and the local possibilities for its provision. The National Council on Intangible Cultural Heritage shall examine the proposal received and the Commission's report by proposing to the Minister of Culture that the element be entered in the Register of Elements of Intangible Cultural Heritage or reject the proposal received. The entry of the element of intangible cultural heritage in the Register shall be carried out within 14 days of the submission of the Protocol. In fact, this is the procedure that exists and that works. In view of the above, the development of a form or form to the Cultural Heritage Act, by which experts can register their findings and assessment, is not applicable for the identification of the intangible cultural heritage. I conclude with the important clarification that this process, as I said, is working at this point. The procedure is clear and the examination of each submitted proposal is ensured. So the procedure works, if there was a need for a form, it could have been done much earlier actually.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u294	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dilov, you have the floor for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u295	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you, Mr. Minister, and I sincerely hope that this is a communication problem. Then I commit myself to this letter, which is from 20 July 2020, to Mr. Boyl Banov, where the desire to include six positions as an intangible cultural heritage has been stated. As far as I understand from your answer, there is no need for a special form on which experts will sign and testify, and they can simply, with free text, describe the phenomena and they will eventually be moved. So my commitment is to do this thing, i.e. send you back the expertise and the letter about this particular case from the Regional Historical Museum of Burgas, and hope that things will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u296	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? I won't. We move on to the next issue by the MPs Petar Kulenski, Ivaylo Shotev and Alexander Dunchev regarding the verification and taking action in connection with the protection of the cultural and historical heritage threatened by the discovery of quarries for extraction of inert materials on Golaka hill in the land of the village of Vetren dol, Septemvri municipality, Pazardzhik district. Mr. Kulenski, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, during a meeting with citizens of the village of Vetren dol, the municipality of Septemvri, Pazardzhik, I was informed of the concerns of the local people regarding the opening of a quarry for extraction of inert materials on the Golaka hill, which is close to the village. The considerations of local people were mostly of a healthy nature, which included preserving the cleanliness of soil, air, drinking water, food, soil, crops that were grown, the integrity of mineral springs, but not least their considerations were related to preserving cultural and historical heritage. The additional concerns of the residents of the village of Vetren dol were fed by the fact that in July 2019 the government of GERB at its regular meeting approved permission to study the underground riches of Golaka peak of the company "Agro Cultures 2014" with current owner and manager Mrs. Vanyusha Petrova mother of the mayor of Septemvri municipality, Mrs. Vaska Racheva, also from GERB. On 8 April 2022, the Initiative Committee of residents of the village of Vetren Dol sent a letter to a number of institutions, including the Ministry of Culture, requesting action to prevent the opening of a quarry for extraction of aggregates. The response received by the Ministry of Health supports the Initiative Committee and has ordered the concession for the Ministry of Energy to suspend all actions and procedures for the extraction of underground wealth. Apart from that, the Ministry of Culture was informed by letter that the land of the village has a number of historical and archaeological finds, including six archeological sites, they are detailed in my question to you. On 9 June 2022, the Initiative Committee informed me, as a Member of the National Assembly, that it had not received a reply from the Ministry of Culture and that is why I would like you to answer the following question: has the Ministry of Culture carried out a verification in relation to the actions and procedures for the extraction of inert materials on the Golaka hill in the land of the village of Vetren dol, the municipality of Septemvri, Pazardzhik district? Does the Ministry of Culture intend to take follow-up action and support the non-compliance and cessation of extraction procedures for the particular site in order to protect cultural and historical heritage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u298	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u299	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kulenski, Mr. Shotev, Mr. Dunchev, in implementation of a contract between In field searches within the concession area no evidence of the existence of an archaeological site was found, but there is also possible a cultural archaeological layer at greater depth. Therefore, as well as because of discovered archaeological artifacts, an archeologist is required to monitor excavation activities of the concessionaire in the area of their discovery. Near the boundaries of the investment intention there are also recorded archaeological sites, therefore excavation activities in the concession area must be carried out under the supervision of an archaeologist in order not to affect and destroy archaeological structures. In connection with the opening of authorisation proceedings, the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage notes that the concession territory was not reduced in view of the presence of archaeological sites in the immediate vicinity, but did not, exceptionally, object to the granting of a permit for the search and investigation of metal minerals in strict compliance with the Cultural Heritage Act. And it is very important to note. In the event of non-compliance with the legal requirements of the candidate concessionaire, the Ministry of Culture will express a negative opinion on the granting of a concession on the territory. I apologize that we haven't officially responded sooner to the people of Vetren Dol. If you're interested, I can also introduce you to the exact steps we would take from the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u300	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dunchev, are you going to make the line? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u301	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman! Interesting is the fact that it has been entrusted to the company "Agro Cultures" which is related to the mayor of September to carry out the study of the artifacts of cultural values in this territory. I have investors friends who have told me that when such research is done or construction is started and if they come across such artifacts, the first thing is to cover things up because they will be blocked. There is no guarantee that this was not the case here either. Therefore, the question is: how can the Ministry of Culture ensure that such checks can be carried out with the participation of competent individuals in relation to cultural values rather than leaving the company that will build or acquire, in this case, a career, to assess whether it has established artifacts or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u302	Thank you, Mr. Dunchev. A hole, Mr. Secretary? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u303	Dear Mr. Dunchev, I will read the special steps that the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage can take. And if there are any discrepancies, I would love to work with you to address this problem. I'm not an expert in the field, but if there are violations, we'll definitely pursue them. The National Institute for Real Estate Cultural Heritage would grant a permit for the search and exploration of metal minerals subject to strict compliance with the following requirements: 1. The geological research works shall in no way affect the territories of the remains of a destroyed gravel mound registered within the area, point one, and a terrain with preserved cultural layer, point two, as well as the territories of those registered in the immediate vicinity of the western boundary, tomb mounds and their protection zones. For this purpose, the geological teams must turn in advance for assistance to the Historical Museum "Professor Mechislav Domaradsky", the city of September, whose specialists on the ground to identify the values to be excluded from the scope of the research works. So this is one of the mechanisms, they are obliged to work with the local historical museum. 2. During the research activities strictly comply with the requirements of art. 160, para. 2 of the Cultural Heritage Act. 3. Upon completion of the geological research work, a rescue archaeological survey of sites registered inside the area applied for shall be carried out. The results of this study shall be adopted by an expert commission appointed by the Minister of Culture under art. 158a of the Cultural Heritage Act. So this is another mechanism that we could use directly from the Ministry of Culture to exercise control. 4. Following the completion of the rescue archaeological studies but before the opening of a concession procedure for the extraction of construction materials, the territory of the concession area must be reduced and excluded from the instructions of an archaeologist specialist from the territories of the registered tombs and their security areas located to the western contour of the concession area. We are talking specifically about this example. 5. In the subsequent conciliation procedure for granting concession, the documentation of the investment intention must be completed with a report on the results of the rescue archaeological survey and a protocol of an expert commission under art. 158a of the Cultural Heritage Act, as well as a map of the reduced area of the field, after the exclusion of the tombs and their security areas. That is, whenever there is some type of report to be adopted and there is accountability, the commission that has been appointed is directly from the Ministry of Culture and has nothing to do with the company. At least we hope that so far, and from now on, if it is up to us, we can ensure that it does not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u304	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues, before we proceed with the next question, two notices. Mr. Ivan Ivanov will not be able to attend today's parliamentary control due to urgent commitments, so after Minister Atanasov we will continue with questions to Mr. Boyko Rashkov, Minister of Interior, also resigned. And the second announcement is that today's parliamentary control will continue until 18.40. Mr. Georgiev, did you hear the announcement? By 6:40 p.m. today's session will continue. There is another question for Minister Atanasov. He is from the National Representative Dimitar Nikolov on a programme and policy of the Ministry of Culture for financial support of libraries regarding the renewal of their funds with books and other information sources. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u305	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! Dear Minister Atanasov, my question is provoked by your answer during a hearing in the Permanent Committee on Culture and Media at the beginning of May, when you assured me that a financial resource of nearly 2 million has been provided. lv. to upgrade and fill library funds. Every year, the Ministry of Culture has provided financial support to libraries under the Programme. As far as I know, competition sessions are not scheduled for potential participants, and at the same time we are on the eve of summer holidays and summer vacations and the reading community is waiting for the current headlines in libraries. My question is: when and will this program even start and what are the objective prerequisites for its delay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u306	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u307	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov, the delay was imposed due to a series of consultations that were made with the regional libraries, with the Global Libraries Foundation and with the Bulgarian Library Information Association on how to improve the Programme. The administrative process is ongoing and the programme will be launched within a reasonable time in July. This is actually one of the priorities that we have set at the Ministry of Culture, given the extreme circumstances and the fact that in a few weeks this political cabinet may change. So, literally on Friday, we also discussed what would be the fastest and most optimal way to do it, but this is something that we have committed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u308	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u309	My line will be very brief to the Minister. The question is not whether the answer satisfies me or not. The answer should be heard by the reading community and especially the small municipal and community libraries, who expect this programme to really fill in their funds with current titles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u310	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Would you like a hole, Mr. Secretary? No. That was the last question for you. Thank you for today's participation in parliamentary control. Goodbye. We're moving on, colleagues, to questions for Mr. Boyko Rashkov. The first question will be from the MP Mr. Tsvetan Enchev on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Here you are, Mr. Enchev, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Rashkov resigned, honourable colleagues! You and I, dear Mr. Rashkov, while we were asking ourselves questions and it was time to answer them, both my questions were already as if they had received their decision from the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, but I will ask them anyway. On July 10 in the village of Malorad, Borovan municipality, Vratsa district, in the home of Mrs. Maya Borisova Petkova......................................................................................... With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask the following question: on what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings the search was carried out; is the court authorised and is the prosecution informed accordingly and what further action is taken on the case? I note that the questions asked are related to possible unlawful actions by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the issues do not affect the personal rights and interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u312	Mr. Enchev, just the name of the face, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u313	Maya Borisova Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u314	Thank you, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u316	Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u317	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Enchev, I will answer the question. I can answer in detail, however, won't we at least finally see what you think is understood by this general statement of pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior? In order to qualify for a similar action of the Ministry of Interior, there must be some real action, because harassment, pressure and so on can be expressed differently and lead to one, to another, to a third result. And since you all stick to a common formulation, you just change names, no one gives light. You want light, and you don't explain what you understand and how I have to answer for pressure and harassment, because now what I'm going to say is within the framework of the Law. What is written in the Law, which every day these people do, both policemen and prosecutors together, is within the framework of the Law. But when you come here on the stand and when you say the Ministry of Interior is exerting pressure and harassment during the elections, the first thing that arises in the minds of our viewers, listeners and MPs, of course, in the Chamber, is that this is some kind of institution that is harassing people. There's no such thing. As you claim that pressure and harassment has been put on, I will ask you to tell everyone what the pressure and harassment are, because such behaviour of the Ministry of Interior authorities in the verification that we have done will not. No, no such action has been committed! Yes, it is true, the woman you mentioned here, I will not quote names, is an activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. In this case, see how this short and small history develops. It is that the police department in question has been alerted, and it is to a specific inspector who is an employee of the District Department in Byala Slatina at the Ministry of Interior of the Ministry of Interior of Vratsa. He's got a signal. The signal points to this woman, and not only to her, but also to her daughter, who are from this settlement, which you mentioned, that they are buying votes for a particular political party and a specific and candidate. That's the signal. Such signals are received or received in election times hundreds. And what to do now the employees of the Ministry of Interior will work or fear that tomorrow the MP will ask the minister, will say and claim, will qualify that the employees of the Ministry of Interior have exercised pressure and harassment? What do you mean?! On the occasion of this signal, an appropriate file has been filed, there is an entry number. If anyone wants to abuse the law, I assure you that he will not be bringing such materials if he has been exerting pressure and harassment. That would be very risky for someone because they are held responsible, including not only administrative, disciplinary, but also criminal liability. That's why I want us to figure out what pressure and harassment means. In addition, the police have taken action together with the district attorney's office, which is local there. She is asked in the task, how the police exercise illegal pressure and harassment, on the one hand, the prosecution has been reported to the case and the prosecution tolerates, even though it is a law enforcement authority. If there are really illegal acts of the police, she will tolerate them, and they are excluded from such things in practice. That's out of the question. In addition, they acted under some instructions that the Attorney General had given long before I became a minister, and they worked and continued to work last year until the last elections under these instructions to the Prosecutor General and the police and prosecutors who monitored these inquiries. It has indeed been imposed on the assessment of police officers and a check has been carried out at Borisova's house, I will save the family name. There have been checked, 16 sheets with copies of ID cards, numerous other documents with personal data of persons, notes and writings have been established. In this find is drawn up, of course, and corresponding protocol. But notice now, protocol is for voluntary surrender. So these materials were handed over to police officers voluntarily by this citizen. This protocol also has No 248P-11332 from 11 July. We're on our way. The person in the protocol itself has clarified that these are official documents and she brought them from the office in which she works. He works, as I understand it, in the Social Assistance Directorate. Obviously, I won't have enough time to finish, but I hope in the second part of my involvement in this matter I will be able to.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u318	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Enchev, you have the floor for the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u319	Thanks again, Mr. Chairman. As I have already pointed out, Minister Rashkov resigned, the time that took us to ask questions and to answer each other has already made this case very clear. You said the documents were handed over voluntarily, but that's only natural. Our sympathizers and activists have always cooperated with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and when they have no concerns about the things they own in their homes, respectively assist the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, as I assume you have noticed yourself. Since you have asked me several times what we actually mean by pressure and harassment, I, last time I went out on this stand and had a question for you, long and wide explained personally what I experienced under pressure and harassment. I will allow myself once again to say quite briefly that these were, I say within the law, but this does not make them less harassing, because they happen so often, to the same people that people are under the impression that when someone is drafted a warning protocol not to commit criminal activity for having seen and spoken to me, that we have seen and visited someone's establishment or home, they are immediately searched, respectively checked, examined his car, and he himself searched. People get the impression that when I see someone, I bring them down to commit a crime. And as I pointed out last time, that's not true at all. On the contrary, I am trying to do political work and persuade people to vote for me, respectively, for the party I represent to change the country for the better. And the everyday things that were going on, I'll tell me again, I was going into Vratsa like Stanko Todorov in front of two jeeps, in the back of two jeeps. This is pressure and harassment, Mr. Rashkov. That's what I understand. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u320	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. You have the opportunity for a duplicate, Mr. Minister. Please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u321	Twenty-five Bulgarian citizens have been questioned on this case, Mr. Enchev 25! None of them have complained anywhere that such pressure has been exerted on someone. None of them! Well, now you claim someone complained to you, but there's a prosecutor. Come on, the police, because according to your estimates here how many times we answer, is bad and it exerts pressure, harasses people, almost the Ministry of Interior has been created and supported by the state budget for this. A lot of unacceptable conclusions can be drawn from the dozens of questions that are already being asked and where the first sentence is: So 25 citizens have provided information on this case, including the head of this woman, who stated in the verification that the employees of this Directorate are not entitled to export materials if they are official. So when they get the police authorities such an information, it is natural to point out to them that documents that can not be in one person's home, but should be in their place of service, and with lists, and so on, data on individuals, is very close to the mind, to the conclusion that it is possible to use this information for election and election purposes and so on, and in connection, of course, with buying and selling votes. Therefore, a check is also being carried out on this basis. Based on all these data, there is also such a warning protocol, which we do not need to export any more details. Besides, there's something else I want to tell you. When talking about harassment and pressure, there can be no continuous communication between the police authorities there, on the spot, with the prosecution, including Mr. Enchev, the file was sent once to the prosecutor's office in Byala Slatina, after which the same file was returned further to follow instructions that the prosecutor gave. The prosecution in our country is generally known to supervise legality. The question is: if there has been illegal pressure and harassment on someone there, why has the prosecution failed to address this issue and immediately remedy the alleged infringement. I'm more inclined to believe that because no violation of the law has been committed and people have done their job properly. Of course, and the prosecutor finally ruled in the order prescribed by the law. So of these materials that were then collected, you may know, you may not know, but obviously they had a pretty serious meaning, since they were separated materials and another investigation for a documentary crime was initiated. Perhaps this could also be interpreted by more malicious people, that pressure and harassment are being imposed on citizens. But if we accept any suspicion of wrongdoing, to put it mildly, of harassment and pressure, then for what reason would we want people to do their duties by law? Tomorrow you will suffer, God forbid, anything, and you will need the authorities to cooperate with you, to investigate, to protect your rights and interests, but with such a attitude from the parliamentary platform I do not know with what desire these police authorities will do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u322	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is again by Mr. Tsvetan Enchev on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. This question has an incoming number ending at 1013.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister for Retire Rashkov, honourable colleagues! Again, this issue, by the time we get to it, already has its development in the prosecutor's office, and therefore the case against the lady concerned has been terminated, which comes to say that she has practically not committed any crime. I'm still gonna ask the question, and then I'm gonna tell you what I saw in this case. On the basis of art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, oral answer for actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior in the election campaign. Dear Minister of Interior, in Byala Slatina, Byala Slatina Municipality, Vratsa District, during the election campaign for parliamentary elections on 11 July 2022, a search was carried out at the home of Mrs. Iskra Metodieva based on false testimony. She is also accused of committing a crime in the previous elections, notice, which took place on April 4th, and the same is charged. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions: on what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings has the above searched and searched? Was there a permit? Has the D.A. been notified? To date, Mr. Minister, I say again that I have such information and the prosecutor's case file against the lady has been terminated, and it has not been charged, but you will allow me to tell you what it was about. In this particular case, the lady welcomed us to a place where we traditionally conduct our events, and the very next day there were three kind witnesses who went to say that in the previous elections this lady was, how to qualify him, bought votes for the benefit of a certain political power, and they were given certain amounts of money, which they still, four months, held in their hands and carried there. It was terribly untenable. The point is that all this has produced an effect which I would not like to mention from this tribune, I will keep it to myself and to the conscience of the people who have done it, but it is delighting that this case is indeed thanks to perhaps the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, respectively to the authorities of the prosecution, ended up with justice and this person was justified in the face of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u324	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Enchev! If we invest, honourable Members, political elements in each assessment of a criminal proceedings, which I cannot tell you at the moment how many there are in the whole country - 150,000 or 200,000 - there is no obstacle to doing so, but the effect will be rather negative, leaning towards zero, and nothing more will be achieved. Nothing more! There is no obstacle, I repeat, to interpret politically any criminal proceedings that someone intended to abuse, to affect a participant in the political process. Hey, damn it, I've been running for MP, I've been a MP, I've been campaigning, I've never thought of using criminal cases, even though I'm a penalist, I've been doing years of my life with criminal law and trial, it won't come to my mind to use criminal cases to make political propaganda out of these microphones here, but we've come across this practice. Perhaps this is a far-sighted policy that we may not understand. Now we're talking about it. Firstly, I would like to say and appeal for attention when the questions are put, I mean the following: the people's representative Mr. Enchev again, as well as all other members of the DPS, with the phrase "E being pressured and harassed by the Ministry of Interior" in the election campaign, the election day and now, notice, asking what it is: on 11 July 2022. Well, I am sorry, there are no elections yet, there may be, perhaps there will be, but for 11 July 2022 there has not even been yet come this date, but I, as a minister here at the moment am standing up to answer for something that is not there. It'll be next month this date. Now, in that sense, the question is nonsense, but of course we're not gonna stop here. The easiest thing to say is, well, you asked the question of some date that's forward in time. Probably in view of 11 July 2021. Again it is said that pressure and harassment has been put on and without telling exactly how this has been achieved without saying how. And from here we can talk someone said, someone said by tomorrow morning, not until 6:00. I am convinced that officers of the Ministry of Interior and the prosecution have not abused the law and have not carried out such actions. And this belief is very easy to prove, of course, but before that we need to be explained what meaning is involved in the qualification of harassment and pressure. Otherwise, if we do not get clarification in this sense, what is claimed will seem like an attempt here from the parliamentary tribune to carry out a slanderous activity to destroy the authority of both the Ministry of Interior and the prosecution. In this case, these two state bodies acted jointly and their actions were in full compliance with the law. It is not clear in the question, this is a purely legal aspect, why and how a testimony is qualified as false. To be unfaithful, the closest thing to the mind is that some persons have committed perjury, which is proven in court, not here in the courtroom. Next, to say that the person asked about Mr. Enchev was accused. Indictment is a crime under the Penal Code. This is a difficult crime to prove, the practice shows it, but there are mandatory elements out there that now is not the place to comment. So who is accused and who is not accused, this also decides the relevant court. In addition, when she is accused, is she accused, or is she not accused, let her decide the Bulgarian court and not here in plenary. The actions taken by the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office have been carried out as such is the question of which pre-trial proceedings, Mr. Enchev, that he already has information from the Prosecutor's Office and his question in this part is obviously no longer relevant, but I will say, as he is asked in the Chamber in pre-trial proceedings No 318 of 9 July 2021. On the alert of the person K.M.K. that your acquaintance or close, Mr. Enchev, has proposed 50 BGN. of K.K., B.B.M., M.K.M., to vote for a movement of rights and freedoms in the elections in a month, note now He confirmed his statement. Next, I'll point out that no search has been carried out. This is an incorrect claim that a search has been carried out. A search has been carried out at the person's home, with the protocols approved by the court, that is, they were then submitted by the monitoring prosecutor and approved by the court, which means, in a more intelligible language, the court did not find unlawfulness and confirmed them, that is, what they contain is evidence fit, and the protocol itself is a valid evidence. And I do not see here from this tribune why it should be challenged the legality of the actions of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and they should qualify as pressure and harassment when these people have done their work by law. Six witnesses have confirmed that your acquaintance, Mr. Enchev, has offered money for voting in favour of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. That's exactly what she was accused of.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u326	Mr. Minister, you're way over time. Sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u327	The materials have been sent to the prosecutor's office... Yeah, basically, Mr. Chairman, I'm done. So a criminal proceedings developed under the rules of the Bulgarian law, and here critical remarks from the parliamentary tribune are drawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u328	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Enchev, you have an opportunity for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u329	However, this case has ended with the fact that the lady is not guilty of what she is accused of, and therefore I, in turn, and the colleagues who are concerned about such cases, yes, with the clear awareness of what Minister Rashkov said, is complicated with the suggestion, it is complicated with proving how it is preventing people from exercising their electoral rights, but be assured Minister Rashkov, that we and our colleagues from Byala Slatina will bring this case to the end and the people who have allowed themselves, I do not say that these are employees of the Ministry of Interior, I would like to point out that we have always cooperated with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and we do not have any notes in this case. The question is principled, we believe that this man is innocent, so the criminal proceedings have ended and from now on we will look for who, what signal, why. And therefore, when something is not the case............................. if it is slander.................................. we will live, we will see.................................. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u330	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Would you like a hole, Mr. Secretary? You don't want to. The next question is from the MP Ercan Ebatin on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign on election day with a number ending at 10-09, Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u331	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Minister for Retire! Mr. Rashkov, this is the last series of questions most likely to you, especially on my part. My questions are addressed to my electoral district, Varna, from where I come from, and the last two questions are related to municipal presidents of the Ministry of Rights and Freedoms. My first question relates to pressure on our municipal president from Aksakovo. This is about Mr. Vasil Georgiev Alexiev, who on 9 July 2021, I think we are here within the deadlines, in an election campaign in the city of Aksakovo after a media publication has been called to the police and is therefore forced to sign a protocol that he will not participate in a voting scheme. My question is this: after you have been familiar with the case, and you are most likely prepared, do you have information in any specifics of the person in question regarding the case for which you were called, on what grounds, it is clear that the legal basis most likely exists, can be called, but is what the police have done sufficiently justified, have the relevant evidence been found, and if they have been found, have the relevant competent authorities been informed and what actions have been taken? My idea is this, because I told you last time I was dealing with the election campaign and in essence I am aware of what this is about, to shed light on this particular case what is your information about this person? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u332	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u333	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Ebatin! And you're slid on this is pressure, harassment, so here's a policy DPS, pressure and harassment, this bad Ministry of Interior, a revival process and other things. Seriously! Now we're in the 21st century and it's not a big deal. I get it, you're making a policy, you want to make a statement here, you want to be back on the electoral lists, I get it. However, when this objective is linked to damaging the authority of both the prosecution and the Ministry of Interior, we will still have to remember that these are state bodies that are above the entire state, and another like you does not destroy their authority. You're the only ones, you're the only ones! I can be very brief, I can be a little more specific, and since I really take parliamentary control seriously, unlike anything else seen by all Bulgarian citizens, I will try to say a little more than you, Mr. Ebatine. You do not say anything in your question, as you use a formulation that is on duty everywhere. Now listen to what the Home Secretary will tell you in resignation. First, your statement and your question is absolutely unfounded. You claim, for example, that this man was harassed, that he was under pressure, you see, because he had a protocol drawn up. The short version is to tell you that protocol wasn't drawn up on this guy, it wasn't a protocol at all. Ask yourself in the task then what should I answer your question, as protocol has not been drawn up? You give the protocol if you own it, because there is no such protocol in the Ministry of Interior, it has not been drawn up. Officials of the Ministry of Interior have not dealt with this citizen, which you are dealing with here at all, even though he is your activist and municipal adviser or a local chairman there. Was it a provocation because you're from there? Aksakovo, pardon, etcetera, yes, thank you. So if you want to damage, so to speak, the authority of the Ministry of Interior with absolutely false, proven false claims, I will immediately release you here to continue in this style, I will stop right away.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u334	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line, Mr. Ebatine? You don't want to. We move on to the next question, he's from you again. You're welcome to develop it. You've got two minutes. He's got an incoming number ending at 10-10.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u335	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Rashkov! This is my second question and here it is about the municipal president of the Municipality of Provadia "Mustafa Ali Ibryam, a long-standing municipal president who has been called to Provadia as a municipal president. And to him, indeed, while the last time I was delicate in the wording, you may then hear it in the protocol that is recorded here, I did not mention the word "harassment" that you mentioned earlier. Here, however, I would like to tell you that there has been real pressure and a corresponding harassment towards this person with the idea that he was called not to participate in a vote-buying scheme. Mr. Mustafa Ali Ibryam is prestigious enough in the municipality of Provadia, he is the municipal president of the DPS, but he is also a municipal councillor, an extremely authoritative person, and he has never dealt with this type of activity, absolutely never. The man is extremely serious, responsible. I hope that you on your channels have information about the person concerned and here my question is the same. I'm not trying to make politics or damage the interior ministry's image. If you notice, I do not even enter in any emotional way in terms of the questions I ask, given that democracy with regard to the DPS is a difficult victory for us. Therefore, it is particularly valuable to us and we are particularly sensitive when it comes to violating rights and freedoms. I don't want to get into this anymore. In fact, I am somewhat satisfied with the way that we will not have any more contact with such types of topics with you. Because what happened to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I assure you, is not good, precisely because democracy in the country is suffering. I would like you to enlighten me in relation to Mr. Mustafa Ali Ibryam: do you have any particulars and why it is approachable in such a way to a person who has given his life and his authority for the good of one of the nice municipalities of our beloved country Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u336	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u337	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! If we believe Mr. Ebatine, that means that Mr. Ebatine is the only person who watches over democratic processes in our country, and those like me are harming democratic processes in our country. [[DPS lines.]] Otherwise I, as head of the Ministry of Interior, cannot explain this systematically every Friday defamation of the activities of the employees of the Ministry of Interior! [[(Replys from DPS:) That's not true! That's not true!]] I can't explain it any other way! And right now, what's being said in this question is the same thing that... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u338	Colleagues, please, not from the spot! I'll give you a chance to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u339	...we're talking now. It's a common formulation. Here's the wording. [[Shows documents in folder.]] There's no difference. There's pressure and harassment. And here, notice now. I will read because it must also become clear to the viewers how serious what is used as parliamentary control as a matter. [[Reads.]] Provadia... well, well, well. And now here, I can't figure out which campaign we're talking about, because there's neither... Last year, there were a few choices, a few campaigns, and there's not even a reference here to which campaign Mr. Ebatine asked, and let's say yes, it's right here, it's not right, it's wrong here, it's been warned wrong, and here it's been properly warned. There's no such thing. As general and more vague as possible, so that no one understands what you are asking, so that we can now here from this tribune say how much we are advocates of democracy, and others how much they harm democracy. Well, there's no such thing! I'm sorry! And I've been a member of parliament and I've been involved in parliamentary control. [[DPS lines.]] And now on the subject. In Provadia there is one of your representatives, who is the municipal chairman of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I'd be surprised if you'd stand up for me and ask me about someone else who's not your activist. [[DPS lines.]] But that's the whole point here. First, you need to specify the question in the sense: how exactly, what is your data about pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior, because otherwise it is impossible to answer this question. You throw a statement into the public domain that you don't support with anything at all. Secondly, you have not indicated the date and year when you believe pressure and harassment have been carried out. Last year, you had a few choices. What is the expression of pressure and harassment? How they have been carried out so that we can possibly take any action or tell you now, as I have told you many times: contact the prosecution to carry out an investigation, and end this. However, I am still trying to give some sense to parliamentary control because these slanders, which are constantly pouring on these bodies, are state bodies, they are not to someone else, but to the whole Bulgarian people and we must also spare their feelings and their self-esteem. And you do exactly the opposite of the stand every Friday. In the previous question that Mr. Ebatine asked about, there was no protocol drawn up there at all. Although there is no protocol drawn up, there is also a claim that pressure and harassment has been put on and, as you all understand, it has not become clear how this thing has been obtained, and so on, no one has paid attention to it by any employee of the Ministry of Interior. But there's also a claim that there's harassment. Here in the same way, however, there are protocols drawn up here, and not one. Whether there's a protocol or there's no protocol, in any case, there's pressure and harassment for Mr. Ebatine. At the same time, there is no evidence of such harassment or pressure on this citizen you are asking for. You don't have any such data. If you have, show them here, give them, read them, let's see. But I'll tell you something more concrete. With regard to this citizen, there are several protocols, not one, and I therefore insist on asking which case it is. [[Heckling]] There's a few of them. Can you imagine? So it's all pressure and harassment. They're multiple cases, but we're putting them under one denominator. Now let's know which case we're talking about. We have a few protocols. [[DPS lines.]] Secondly, in order to proceed with these actions, there is a protocol, there is a procedure, it is in front of me. My statement is based on those facts that are in front of me. [[Distorted document folder.]] They have their numbers, dates, written by the people who compiled these documents, signed these documents. There is one protocol, let's say, from 4 October 2021. That's what it says. By the way, how will pressure and harassment be exercised and will be argued when this protocol is here, before me, is signed only by the police officer and by a witness, as required by art. 65, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act. This guy that Mr. Ebatine asked about didn't sign a protocol, which means he exercised one of his rights and no one forced him to sign and so on. [[DPS lines.]] In addition, it is explicitly stated here that he does not propose, not to give or promise another property benefit in order to persuade him to exercise his selective right in favour of a particular candidate of a political party or coalition. This is protocol as required by the law! And the question is, what have these employees of the Ministry of Interior done wrong? [[Replys from DPS. The Chairman gives a signal that the time has run out.]] There's a few more, I'll take the attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u340	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For your reply, Mr. Ebatine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u341	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! [[The National Representative Alexander Dunchev goes to Minister Boyko Rashkov and wants to get acquainted with the documents in the folder. Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] I have waited to take a reply on this issue and to take your answers into account that you have not provided any specific violations by these persons on either particular occasion by Vassil and Mustafa for offences committed in the course of the election campaign. I'm aware of that. Everything else, including the way they react to our sensitivity to request information about our individuals about election campaign, shows the psychological inadequacy in your face to realize that every Bulgarian citizen has the right to choose and be elected, and freely. You have a responsibility as Minister of the Interior to ensure a normal electoral process so that democracy can be established. We have no other mechanism to validate democracy in the country. That's our tool. Elections are the instrument by which we choose, we are elected and this country is institutionally functioning. We do not need to react in any way too aggressively and emotionally. I wouldn't have said it if I hadn't noticed that note. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is not a coincidence that it raises these types of questions, not just by some over-ambition to pick on the Minister of the Interior. No, our idea is totally different. Our idea is to reach that democratic thinking and that democratic awareness of the functioning of the institutions and statehood in which the Bulgarian citizens feel that they can apply the electoral process freely and democratically, according to their will. That's our idea. We've fought for this. Yes, once in a way, now in a different way, but we will continue to defend this and the DPS will always be on the country and its voters and its citizens, and especially until we establish strong institutions in which the individual does not matter, so that he can overcome the institution and impose a different type of policy than that which is, for example, applied in the legal form that is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u342	And thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Would you like a douche? You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u343	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Look, this is more about getting false information out of Parliament's stands. And what political goals you have, Mr. Ebatine, is your party's problem. The citizens of Bulgaria, however, need the truth, not certain lies. [[DPS lines.]] And now I'm going to say something, because I need the obvious and specific. [[Heckling]] There's no other way! [[DPS lines.]] We have a statement in the case of the Prosecutor's Office, where a prosecutor with the K family has spoken and has fully described this situation, for which quite vaguely, vaguely, abstractly, Mr. Ebatin wishes to bring only and only a political element into the matter, without any specifics. Now perhaps both you, ladies and gentlemen of the House, and those who are watching and listening to us, will understand a little more facts about who I'm being asked about. The relevant police department, under a specific statement by the prosecutor, received information from a Provadia police officer, after which a person A.A. removed a written explanation, in which that person had told the police authorities that he had known for years a person from the Provadia region known by a nickname I would not say it, and who knew about him that he was a local leader of the Political Party Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the region. Who introduced him now is not so important, but the one who has the title, so to speak, the local leader of the DPS, has proposed to this person who gives the signal, to give money for the elections in favor of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. They've been giving 20 leva each. That's what the guy said in the signal, 10 leva. for those who provide them to give themselves to the people there. Several times in several campaigns this man has been used. And see what he has said: "At one point, however, this person who has given the signal has refused to continue to do this work, because in the village they were Christians and people hated him for buying votes for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] That's the D.A.'s order.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u344	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u345	Let's go. [[DPS lines.]] Can I read it all the way? [[(Reply from DPS: No! Time! Time!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u346	Mr. Minister, your time is usually up. Colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u347	I think that's even more than enough. I'm just gonna finish up here and let me know that the D.A.'s office was involved in this. Only the prosecution can make a final decision on such a matter. And what the D.A. has decided, I am not a representative of the D.A.'s office. I am the Minister of Home Affairs, resigned. I'm sorry, ask the D.A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u348	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u349	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Anastasov, you have the floor for procedure. Your questions follow after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u350	Mr. Chairman, I am making you a very sharp remark that Mr. Rashkov here is speaking some free writings and we know that, and he is trying to incriminate parties. This, by the way, is documented by international observers, but for that I will introduce you shortly. The ugliest thing about what just happened, first of all, was that he read something of very vague origin, which he himself might have made up, might have made someone make it up, doesn't matter, but this going minister, who wouldn't be remembered for anything other than illegal actions, took the liberty of getting out of this situation in a typical communist way, even imported an ethnic and religious element. This was disgustingly ugly and I do not know how you allowed a leaving minister to try here to oppose Bulgarian citizens on a political, religious and ethnic basis. That was the bottom! Please don't ever let it happen again and I hope this room never sees such a bottom.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u351	Mr. Anastasov, thank you for this procedure. I personally didn't take the minister's words that way. You are absolutely right that from this tribune there should in no way be any intolerance to ethnic or any other discriminatory basis. But I say again, I didn't take the minister's words that way. Mr. Anastasov, the next question is from you. Here you go, he's got an incoming number ending at 10-16. You're starting with him, aren't you? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u352	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Rashkov, on 20 June 2021 and 3 July 2021 in the town of Belogradchik, Belogradchik municipality, Vidin district, Mr. Alyosha Vutkov, Municipal Advisor from the DPS, prominent representative of the Roma community, activist of the Roma act. My question is: on what legal basis and what is the existence of sufficient data to draw up a warning protocol, has the prosecution been informed and what are the further actions on the case described? And before you proceed to the answer, I would like to inform you that your bad luck has come up today with the final report of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the elections today. Only for the listeners, who may know better than Minister Rashkov, this organization is almost 50 years old and, to say the same, is the temple of election observation in both European and worldwide. They have a clear methodology and clear criteria on how election monitoring is carried out, as well as recommendations that are taken seriously by absolutely all democratic countries. So this report mentions, as has been observed, that there is long-standing discrimination against Roma. I quote: The activeness among Roma voters remained very low, so they contributed various factors such as e-voting, insufficient education for voting in elections, lack of candidates, as well as notice the police actions that were targeted at Roma communities. Please answer my question. If you want, you can behave arrogantly towards the OSCE, but it is well before you, and there will be a lot of it after you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u353	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u354	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we have here again a statement of responsibility................... and harassment.. without telling us without telling us exactly what these two terms are expressed in, and they want a concrete answer. Of course, they believe that this is democratic by throwing away a question, but even if the questions had at least been formulated so as to be understandable to all MPs, to all citizens who listen and look at us and so on. And that's why I'm going to give you a very brief answer, because there's no point in asking the same question, there's no point in deepening much. In no case did the work of the Ministry of Interior in relation to the elections have anything to do with ethnic and other issues. These are also fictions that serve the political propaganda goals and actions of a political party currently in our country. The thing that is quite, so to speak, everyday life in such a time period to monitor whether votes are bought and sold, and where such data occur, to take preliminary, preventive measures to cross this activity. And that it is a fact in our country that the activity of buying and selling votes is not known only by television screens, where during the election campaign everywhere it says: "Buying and selling votes is a crime, so the specific case is identical. It is not clear what Mr. Anastasov means by the notion of "Nathysk and bullying" he has not indicated. In his view, what actions may constitute pressure and harassment in this particular case? Did they beat up a guy who was forced to vote for someone else or something? And if there are such actions, and by police officers, they should turn to the prosecution. I have said many times that such actions by the police are not within the authority of the Minister of the Interior. The Home Secretary can't know about nearly 50 thousand policemen each of them what they do every minute. And here, of course, it makes the impression that we're going to be preparing for the new election lists, which is very clear to everyone. In this case, the staff of the Ministry of Interior have indeed drawn up a warning protocol, and since you are asking me on what grounds, I answer on a legitimate basis. What's the legal basis?! Art. 65 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior and something very important is not some self-indulgence of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, but they have compiled the protocol after received a specific signal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u355	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Anastasov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u356	Mr. Rashkov, whoever sits in my seat in the next parliament, whether it be Ivan, Hassan, Itzhak or Boyko, he will ask you the same questions, be a rahat. Yes, perhaps the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and in particular the office for democratic institutions and human rights is not democratic, and you are democratic. I'm sure that's true, but I'll tell you what a bitch and bullying is. I will read back from the Report: The report was issued 9032 so-called in quotes, warning protocols for citizens who the Ministry of Interior considered to be potential perpetrators, demanding them to sign the relevant protocols,......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The lack of formal criteria is a harassment that is used to issue such warning protocols and the fact that copies were not provided to the signatory, as well as the obvious evidence of the brutal methods used in certain police operations raised serious doubts about the abuse of power and their right to be perceived as innocent until proven otherwise. In other words, you deny them the right to be seen as innocent until proven to be contrary to law, which is guaranteed by the rule of law and by the Constitution. Now that's harassment! Now that's harassment! If you want me to read it to you, you don't know English and that's why you can't read it, I'm sorry about that, Mr. Rashkov. But from now on, I will only quote what others write about you, not what the DPS talks about you, and the DPS will keep asking questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u357	And thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u358	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll say two things. First, that the citizen, whom Mr. Anastasov asked about, let us not forget, is once again a municipal councillor from DPS. There's nothing wrong with that. He's got a legal record. Data and signals have been reported...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u359	What's the legal basis?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u360	Don't ask me a question, you were here.! You should have asked the question! These are signals and data about his involvement and preparations for committing a crime against citizens' political rights. These figures, these grounds, see what police officers write here, not the Interior Minister, and have served as a fact about this protocol and the data from previous elections where this same citizen has been seen in the same activity. Perhaps Mr. Anastasov, who is obsessed with international acts, does not know about the intranormal ones and the activities of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, with which, you know, they use past facts. There are information funds from where these facts are already used ready, as time passes, so you don't know these things, but you are trying to protect the unprotected in this case. In addition, as early as July 2021, such data was received in relation to more than one person and, if I have to be specific, to 11 persons. All of them are drawn up warning protocols and one of these persons is the citizen Mr. Anastasov asked about. And in this activity of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, as it is correctly noted in this international document, which here quotes us somewhat, it is rightly noted that this is a legitimate activity. It is not illegal, and this activity has nothing to do with the principle of innocence and proof of innocence by an effective judicial act, because in this particular case it is higher matter, it is not about the closing of criminal cases, it is a pre-emptive activity in which, Mr. Anastasov, such a principle does not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u361	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is yours again, Mr. Anastasov, the number is 10-17. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u362	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My dear retired minister, Rashkov, thank you for introducing us to how the system worked once upon a time. I'm a 1983 set, and I haven't had the chance. So my question is about another case like this. During the election campaign for parliamentary elections on 11 July 2021 in the village of Chuprene, Chuprene Municipality, Mrs. Radostina Ranchinska has given three reports, notice, the police and have signed, again notice, three warning protocols. My question again is: on what legal basis and what is the existence of sufficient data for a warning protocol to be drawn up, has the prosecution been informed and what are the further actions? Otherwise, no matter how much we talk about the warning protocols, it is very clear in the report that there is an opportunity to abuse them. Moreover, it is recommended to avoid discriminatory practices and to ensure the right to innocence until proven otherwise, the Ministry of Interior had to publish these criteria, as well as the methodology and grounds on which these protocols were issued. Copies of the issued protocols were also to be transmitted to those who signed them. The mission notes that she told you this at the time of the election when she met with you. [[Reply from Minister Boyko Rashkov.]] On the contrary, you are very impertinently lying, Mr. Minister, but I ask you still to answer the question and not try to mislead the entire Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u363	Here you are, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Minister, don't engage in such a dialogue!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u364	Mr. Chairman, excuse me. This is where we are invaded by ignorance and presented as political work and activity. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 65, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act does not provide for the service of a copy of the Protocol. Please read this thing! [[Reply by MP Stanislav Anastasov.]] Read it because here you speak from the stand of parliament false things and lies. You're telling honest lies! And who believes you from your electorate, and from the other voters, I don't know if they believe you at all, but those who understand this matter you're trying to talk about 100% don't believe you because that's what you learn at university. Now, regarding the lady you're asking about. Three warning protocols. What date are these protocols because you don't write in your question here? What date are these protocols from?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u365	In the period.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u366	I'm asking you on purpose. There aren't three protocols, one has. This is the trouble of putting common, abstract issues that do not serve any public interest, but only the desire to appear here on the stand and be watched by their constituents and so on. See how we crucify the Minister of the Interior may think so...................... that this is a simple matter that he has been dealing with for 35 years. Specifically, and I'm done. On the person you are asking me about: the Municipality of Chuprene, by the DPS I would be surprised if it was not from the DPS, a real warning protocol is drawn up on grounds, I will quote, Art. 65, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act, in which case the law does not provide for the service of a copy, a copy of this protocol. If domestic violence is involved, then the law provides for such a protocol to be served. In particular, no, Mr. Anastasov. Don't insinuate false things. What you don't know, at least keep your mouth shut that you don't know. This protocol has a number. It is not some anonymous document, i.e. about the action taken, there is no doubt, hesitation, it is lawful to draw up this document and this is the daily work of the Ministry of Interior services. In order to draw up this Protocol, it served as a result of the fact that, in previous elections, data on its attempts to influence the electoral process were entered. I'll say it again. In the Ministry of Interior, information is concentrated in this direction, so that we can deal with such problems more easily, buying and selling votes, knowing who is doing this and, first of all, looking for him, which is perfectly normal. That's how you do it all over the world, only here the DPS doesn't want us to do it. There's a number on the case, there's a date. Since Mr. Anastasov asked me, has the prosecution been informed? Yes, the prosecution has been informed, so under this paragraph, if you can say so, on this line, people have worked absolutely legally, without worrying that anyone would subsequently raise such unfounded questions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u367	You will continue later, Mr. Rashkov. Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u368	Minister Rashkov, I am talking to you about the OSCE, which is an international organization. Mr. Vigenin knows her very well behind me. She's obviously a little foreign to you, and you're talking to me here about 35 years ago, about the current law... Okay. You answered my question in the standard way, in no way answered nor what are your criteria for the warning protocols, what the OSCE has asked you, nor why you abused them, nor what the OSCE claims that they were used for administrative pressure, so that to warn you: Buying and selling votes is a crime and is punished by the law and we must also add the abuse of power in elections. It is also a crime, but there is therefore a separate paragraph, again in the same OSCE report, which to you is some organisation that is irrelevant. From your point of view, I'm trying to figure it out, but whatever. So what the paragraph says: Until the law provides guarantees that the abuse of administrative resources can effectively be prevented, it is observed that the frequent briefings of the Ministry of Interior in the media about police operations against vote buying are very often trying to criminalise certain parties. In addition, very often the appearance of candidates in the media of service ministers is perceived by the OSCE as an unfair advantage for the parties concerned and their support. That's what I'm talking about. In black and white people have seen what was the purpose of all your operations and written it in black and white. Whatever you're talking about here, these reports have been here since 1973, and people will be reading them long after you, and the DPS will continue to ask about any violation of your law. I see that you are now trying to shift, change direction, but believe me, there is no way that human rights violations can be left like this and will not be left behind.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u369	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u370	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There's a line in law... [[Reply from DPS.]] Border, border. The red lines you make up. This border says that this is written in the Constitution, open it this constitution that personal freedom extends to a certain space and if someone enters the foreign, we have an abuse of the right. At any moment, when a right to another's right spreads, it's an absolute basis... Here, the lawyer across the street understands me, and here we react in some way, I don't know what way, but then this is a reason for the intervention of state authorities who are legally obliged to watch over citizens' rights and interests so that these rights and interests are not violated. In the present case, the purchase and sale of votes is an act created for protecting the rights and interests not only of individual citizens, but also of the whole society. Society has a need, a need for this here in this room to enter people chosen on an honest path. However, some of the political parties in our country wish this to happen on an unfair path, including through the implementation of the criminal groups in Chapter 3 of the Penal Code, by buying and selling votes, to become more clear to everyone. And now, from this tribune, someone is trying to represent the opposition that the Ministry of Interior is exerting on this type of crime, as a violation of human rights and so on, well, if someone has committed murder, Mr. Anastasov, we will keep him under guard, we will limit some of his rights as a citizen, he will not be able to move freely because he needs to be isolated from society. And a guy like you here could stand on the stand and say that we're violating his human rights... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] ...but I don't know what this will look like in the public mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u371	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u372	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u373	I'll give you a procedure, but you know you're abusing it now. Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u374	Mr. Chairman, while I was waiting, the minister insulted me, but apparently he lost his temper. It's up to you to decide what to do with it. That's not why I'm going out. My request is that you, as a prominent international man, make a sharp remark to the man sitting on the side there in the corner...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u375	Not like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u376	...do not try to ignore international institutions, especially institutions such as the OSCE, in which you are represented and know how important it is for the development of Bulgaria and for the Euro-Atlantic road of Bulgaria. Please do not allow ministers like this in any way to behave arrogantly with such organisations. They're important. Moreover, the documents we have ratified by these institutions have a primate over national law, although it is sometimes not in agreement with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u377	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Reports have always been interesting readings and they help us improve our electoral process from time to time. The next question is by Alysan Yahova, with 10-20 completes the signature of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u378	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Minister of Retire! During the election campaign for parliamentary elections on 11 July 2021 in Montana, Montana District, Mrs. Nadya Yordanova Petrova, who is a member of the District Council of the Ministry of Rights and Freedoms. This issue is related to exploring and reflecting each particular case. This one's part of a lot of cases. On the basis of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions: on what sign basis and what is the presence of sufficient data to draw up such a warning protocol, has the prosecution been informed and what further action on the case described? I note that the issue is related to possible unlawful acts by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and does not affect the personal rights or interests of the Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u379	Thank you, Mrs. Yahova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u380	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Yahova, I think I can handle your question, even though we have been deprived of international acts. What about the citizen you're asking me about? Let us say, however, that we do not miss an important circumstance of parliamentary control that we are talking about a member of the DPS District Council in Montana and municipal councillor of Lom municipality. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 of our Constitution all are equal by law, no privileges based on gender, race and so on, including political affiliation are foreseen. Thus the question is raised, it creates some doubt that you would hardly want, as a sympathizer or a member of the "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" to enjoy any privileges with regard to the law. That can't happen. There is no such thing in a democratic country. I'm sorry Mr. Anastasov wasn't here, I'm sure he would have supported me with an international act. As regards Mrs. Petrova, a warning protocol has indeed been drawn up under art. 65 of the Ministry of the Interior Act, and since you ask me that question correctly, I accept such questions, on what grounds? A signal has been received through the national single number 112 for it and an inspection has been undertaken. As a result of the results of the verification, it is concluded that there is a reason to draw up a warning protocol and have compiled it. When can it be assumed that there are sufficient grounds? However, bear in mind that this expression has been used in several places in several laws, but especially now in this case and in other similar ones we refer to the Ministry of Interior Act where the issue is resolved. Are there sufficient grounds for such a protocol to be drawn up, and sufficient are there when there is still a conclusion to be drawn from the available data, a doubt and so on, that a specific person is preparing or will commit a crime, and we must warn him in order not to wait, to stand aside and to contemplate whether this person is really going to commit the relevant crime. As it has been lately, around the protests, we have received dozens of signals and, as the journalists have asked me, why are you so many policemen? What if there's such information and signals that we should stay in the offices for? The people have appointed us there so that we can watch out for public order and when we have information about whether or not they made it clear by wire. 112, or by secret means get some information, we have to somehow react. In some cases it is useful and sufficient to draw up a warning protocol and period. Nothing happened to this lady. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Since my time is up, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u381	Thank you, Minister. Come in for a line if you like, Mrs. Yahova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, this is not about tolerating members of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. This is about clarifying facts and circumstances. We are interested in the availability of sufficient data. You have not answered the second part of my question: has the prosecution been informed and is there any follow-up to the case described?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u383	Thank you, Mrs. Yahova. Do you have anything to add, Mr. Minister? Thank you. It's you again, Mrs. Yahova, for the next question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u384	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, I am asking a second question within this parliamentary control because of the questions that my colleagues have asked before me, you have repeatedly asked the question why the words harassment and pressure are used. I think that if we look in the dictionary as well, the main reason for the word harassment is that there is a characteristic recurrence, that is, these are not single actions, that is why our questions are related to Montana District, Lom Municipality, Valchedrum Municipality, Rouen Municipality, Ardino Municipality and many other settlements in the country. If it is a single case, then harassment can also be in the form of some threat or fear from people who are subjected to this harassment, and pressure can also be seen as an impact, persuading people and some coercion on them. But whatever. My second question is also related to Montana District and the July 2021 elections. During the election campaign Mr. Zamfir Borisov, Vice-President of the Youth DPS, Montana, has signed a warning protocol and our intention is to receive and illuminate this particular case. On the basis of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions: on what legal basis and in what is the availability of sufficient data to draw up a warning protocol; has the prosecution been informed and what further action on the case described?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u385	Thank you, Mrs. Yahova. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u386	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Yahova, in the previous case, since you have one now under "Yes," the prosecution has been informed, all the materials available to the police authorities in relation to the previous issue have been sent to the relevant competent prosecutor's office. I would just like to draw attention to the following: these materials are indeed under the control of the prosecution. The prosecution is overseeing the law on the actions of the police authorities. As it became clear today, I have given several such examples, the prosecution has also given specific instructions on such checks, and when a state authority is the only one in the country that can supervise the law on the actions of the police authorities, has intervened, there is or there is no pressure, there is or there is no harassment, is very much absolutely unnecessary and it becomes clear to everyone that you are putting in such a way the questions, because you will appear in elections and you want to be all on the electoral lists. That can't happen, of course, but I wish you! Now with regard to the lady you are asking me about and not to get confused, I would like to say that she is really an activist, too, a member of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, and we are asking about her. And now, again, the same wording of pressure and harassment. And since we handled the dictionary very well what pressure means, what harassment means, but in this particular case, with regard to this lady, no warning protocol has been drawn up. If we consider that the protocol warning is some form of harassment, of pressure and so on it is asked: in cases where such a protocol is not drawn up, how is the control and pressure carried out? That makes parliamentary control useless. I'm sorry to say that. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u387	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Would you like the word for a line? Here you are, Mrs. Yahova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u388	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, it was about Mr. Zamfir Borisov. Look, the issues that we are asking you are related to the most dynamic part of an election campaign. This is the election campaign, and it is normal then that representatives of political parties participating in the elections reach their voters. And imagine the existence of such events and events, for which we, with colleagues from the parliamentary group, are asking questions about prescribing warning protocols, especially if they are justified, whether there are such protocols, or if there are no such protocols, but still there is an impact by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, how does it prove to be on the electoral process? This may be directed towards some voters being refused to take part in the elections because of fear or fear. However, the right to vote in elections is a fundamental right and the violation of this right also violates constitutional traditions in every country. So, as a party, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, our main task is to guarantee the freedom and rights of our citizens, Bulgarian citizens and, of course, to participate in the electoral process in our country in a dignified way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u389	Thank you, Mrs. Yahova. A hole? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u390	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Yahova, why are we mixing a few problems into one? You ask me that a warning protocol has been drawn up, and now we are going to the fact that a Bulgarian citizen is prevented from exercising his selective right. You're going too far. I'm sorry to tell you. You're accusing someone unattractive, only to be an officer of the Ministry of Interior, of committing a crime, of committing a crime. [[DSS and DSS lines]] Who are you talking about? [[Heckling]] You're talking about me?! I've thwarted?! No, you're really talking...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u391	No, don't engage in dialogue, you'll have the opportunity...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u392	...something that's pretty risky, by the way. The fact that the people's representative can say and make statements as he sees fit and that he may have been responsible for you. Just be careful, I'm warning you, because right now... [[DPS lines.]] That's right, you have no right to insult a minister who has appeared to parliamentary control. Where does it say that? Where does it say that? [[Heckling]] I have prevented your sympathizers or citizens from exercising their electoral rights at all?! That's what I heard you say. You're already going overboard in... In control, there is no such thing under the rules, neither by any law nor even by international acts which Mr. Anastasov knows very well. So in this case, I would like to hear specific facts about where exactly an officer of the Ministry of Interior stood before the electoral section and prevented a citizen from exercising his selective right? If you don't give me an example now, you're making no sense to me the questions you asked me and the interpretations you made, Mrs. Yahova, just here at the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u393	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question from Mr. Esheref. [[Replications by MP Stanislav Anastasov.]] Mr. Anastasov, you just walked in and you don't know what's going on between the previous and the current way of doing things.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u394	Mr. Vigenin, you underestimate modern technology. There's a broadcast in group rooms.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u395	This is the second time you've broken the rules, but please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u396	What am I breaking it with, Mr. Vigenin?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u397	With the fact that you want in the manner of conduct, you have no reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u398	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I address you in the manner of conduct. You have allowed former Minister Rashkov to take over your duties, to say what should happen, what should not happen, to interpret the Rules. You stand by and watch it completely unattended. Please don't let any of this tribune take away your powers and you don't stand by and watch. Also do not let those who speak from this tribune, especially ministers, threaten MPs and allow them to wave their finger and insult them, because he also uses very obscene words to my address, which you heard very well, and yet there were no consequences. I don't care about consequences. Apparently, Mr. Rashkov is in such a state today....my condolences, but he still can't afford to threaten people in this room. And I'm asking you to go into your functions!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u399	Mr. Anastasov. [[speaking indistinctly]] No, to finish my opportunity to answer. First of all, uncensored words were not used by Mr. Minister at anyone's address. If it was, maybe I wasn't here, but don't engage in dialogue with me anyway. I heard you, now listen to me: such obscene words to no one have been used. I warned you not to enter into a dialogue through the microphones there are procedures for this work. Your group keeps calling at the minister's address. It's normal for the minister to answer anyway. He didn't threaten you. This was a warning, as you accused him directly of infractions that hindered him personally that was the way he understood it, the vote of your sympathizers, to which he replied. And I think the Minister knows him as well as I do, so he has the opportunity to speak his mind. And how the Rules apply, it is within the power of the President of the sitting. Knowing the Rules, since the text is widely known, I think you can interpret it wherever you find it well. Please proceed now with parliamentary control. Mr. Ananiev, I'll give you the floor as well, but I think it's better really...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u400	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conducting it, as one of the MPs of the DPS just gave the definition of harassment and recurrence. It is obvious that they are trying to harass the Interior Minister, who certainly has much more important tasks, although parliamentary control is also important, but when the function of parliamentary control is wasted, it loses its meaning as a whole when some questions are asked and half of it is understood that even factology is absolutely false, it turns out that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has decided to harass the Minister only because he has done his job during elections. We are actually denigrating the very function of parliamentary control in this way at the moment. So please, I can see that you're doing it as much as you can, but I'm going to ask you to do it even harder.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u401	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Perhaps we should consider further amendments to the Rules so that parliamentary groups do not put pressure and harassment on the ministers, but only the opposite is possible. Joke aside, it's really quite emotional this parliamentary control. I'm trying to avoid him when the DPS asks questions to Mr. Rashkov, but there's no way this time. Indeed, I call on both the MPs and the Minister to try to adhere to the more factual side of the questions and to avoid emotional comments on the subject, which is actually the same on all issues. We move on to Mr. Escheref's question 1023 is the signature, Mr. Minister, that there will be some shifts shortly. They come after that. Here you are, Lord Esheref.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u402	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister for Retire! Another issue is related to the election campaign in July 2021, when Bulgaria was facing the first elections with a mandatory engine vote. The specific date is 7 July 2021, the place is the village of Karageorgievo, Aitos municipality, Bourgas district. Mrs. Zumbul Ahmed, who is the local chairman of the DPS, has been called twice to the District Department of Aytos, to distribute agitating materials and to train voters using a machine-voting tablet. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we ask you, Mr. Minister, the following questions: on what legal basis was she called to the District Department............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Has the D.A. been notified? What are the further steps? We note that the questions asked are related to possible unlawful acts and do not affect the personal rights and interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u403	Thank you, Mr. Escheref. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u404	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Esheref, this village of Karageorgievo is already being dealt with several times, but it doesn't matter. You also use the general statement of harassment, pressure. I don't know how the Ministry of Interior will look at you. I don't know if it's okay. After all, these people are doing their job, and we need to treat them with respect. They're on the street, they're at the protests. They protect us from the provocators who commit crimes. And here's torturing and pressure?! [[Relations from the National Representative Adlen Shevked.]] On my part, my dear lady, you are calling from a place, there is not a single order from any official of the Ministry of Interior to exert any form of pressure and harassment on anyone, much less on your sympathizer, member, chairman of the DPS, local and so on. I understand that you wish to vex me in every possible way. I do not do it because culture and education do not allow it, but you from a place, because none of the Bulgarian citizens see who you are, and you allow yourself to throw and insulting expressions. I'll take it. As far as the question is concerned. On July 7th around 9:40 p.m., the Aytos District Department received a signal from... I won't mention his name, from the same settlement, that there is evidence of illegal acts related to the election process. The names of two persons, including which people are from, including that one of these two persons is a municipal councillor from the party "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" and you know it, a candidate for MP. Here's the name of the man you're asking for. In the course of the verification, the alerter set out additional circumstances that it had been alerted by two other persons and this was precisely used to carry out an appropriate inspection. The identity of those persons by the authorities of the order has been established and a file No 237R 6780 of 2021 is formed, naturally, according to the inventory of the District Government. So here's the reference to how it happened, that's what the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have done, which is, I'll say again, for which path, is completely in order. That's their job. It's their profession. When a signal is received, they must react and they know well how to react, even more so, I will remind you, there are instructions to the Attorney General how to act in such an election situation and what should be taken when such signals are received. These people take these instructions into account. They don't respect your moods or me as Home Secretary. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u405	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u406	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I have asked you this question with specific data with the idea to clarify the case of whether there has been a crime committed in violation of citizens' political rights, or whether it is a fake signal by a political opponent or an anonymous signal. As we understand it, the signal is not anonymous. But in this case, I would like to stress that we are not accusing police officers. They're just doing their duty. We believe that there is nothing wrong with activists and members of the DPS teaching voters about the upcoming paperless vote through tablets with a machine voting simulator and campaigning. To have introduced all voters to our country's development programme, to the main priorities, to the measures in our programme. Our view is that this is the way to conduct an election campaign. Everyone has to offer their ideas, views, and not through such false signals or unlawful actions, to call it, to hinder the political opponent. Especially if they're sympathizers and members of the DPS. But I want to assure you that it won't scare these people, it won't scare them. They've proven it over the years, and they'll show it from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u407	Thank you, Mr. Escheref. You may continue the asshole, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u408	With this short time, we can't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u409	I keep my time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u410	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Esheref! I'm going to graduate now. The signal comes from a person who I read has a name that reminds me that it is close to you as a party. [[Heckling]] Now, how do I put this? I apologize if I'm not making myself clear. I'm not going to tell you exactly the name of the man, but I'm telling you, like this guy Neshe Ashhar, Behchet Emorlov, so is Zumbul Ahmed, so are the names. [[Heckling]] I'm not saying anything wrong. Wait a minute. I won't tell you the man's name. The next thing I want to say here is that once such a signal has been received, an inspection has been undertaken. That's normal, too. [[Heckling]] I don't want to offend you with anything. I'm sorry if that's what it sounded like. But I would like to save information that does not need to sound from the microphone of the National Assembly. I don't want anything else. Check initiated. The investigation was carried out under the supervision of the prosecution there. Nothing has been done on its own, and if there were any data, information that someone was abusing their powers under law, the prosecution would have detected this deviation and corrected the actions. There's no such thing in this case. An inspection has been carried out, these persons have been summoned, which you mention, and this lady. Additional information has been taken from them and see what I'm reading here: The prosecution's order has given additional action. And in this regard, several more persons have been called to give information. According to the instructions of the monitoring prosecutor Zumbul Ahmed has been warned on the grounds of art. 65, para. 1 of the SVR, for which a relevant protocol has been drawn up. What should police officers do when there are already instructions in the case as the prosecution is kept up to date? Having received an indication of the protocol, draw up. Refuse?! They can't refuse. That's common in this case. Yes, indeed it can be interpreted in a direction that almost someone influences during the election campaign, but let us not forget that these crimes are characteristic of the election campaign. Mr. Chairman, I apologize for one more sentence. Therefore, in these cases, which you ask me about, and which you do not ask me about, because they are very many, is acted very quickly.... for two, for three.. to cross, before the elections and so on. If it can't be crossed, the investigation continues now and after the election, which there are many cases. And let me remind you that in Burgas we have convicted persons to buy and sell votes. I'm saying in general, you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u411	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. We skip a few questions due to the absence of colleagues and move on to a question from the folks who presented Adlenn Shevked. The signature is 1029, Mr. Secretary. Two questions from Mrs. Shevked. Here you go, Mrs. Shevked.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u412	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! My question is with a 1029 signature, I hope you found it. And it's about actions for a tangible feeling, because you have forbidden us to use pressure, because you don't understand it, as well as harassment, I read here that it is intentional to cause a strong physical and/or mental pain to someone by repeating actions by someone else who is physically, socially, economically or otherwise stronger or overpowered and who thereby abuses their position. And this is from the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign on election day. During the election campaign on 11 July 2021 in Montana, Montana District, Mr. Borislav Bogdanov Naydenov, activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, has signed a warning protocol. The following questions are asked with the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case: on what legal basis and what is the presence of sufficient data to draw up a warning protocol? Has the D.A. been notified? What are the further actions on the so described case, and these issues do not affect the personal rights or interests of the citizen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u413	Thank you, Mrs. Shevked. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u414	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the House, dear Mrs. Shevked! The person you're asking me about is an activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and is offered to sign a warning protocol. I say this and I urge him to sign because it is not necessary. If the person doesn't want to, he won't sign the warning protocol. If his unwillingness is forced in one way or another, through physical or mental violence, then we will be faced with one of your hypotheses -- pressure and harassment -- one of the two -- and there may be a third. In this case, however, there is nothing similar. As with many other citizens who are being informed that they are preparing to participate unregulated, if I may say so in general, in the electoral process with a view to buying and selling votes, if I must be more specific, has also been processed with this activist of yours of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. And it is warned, as operational data have been received in connection with the elections of 13 July 2021, operational information on illegal acts in this direction, I stress to this citizen you are asking me about. This is why a corresponding warning protocol has been drawn up - something that is within the authority of the Ministry of Interior's employees. With the actions in this regard, they have not broken absolutely no law and have not exercised any form of pressure and harassment on this citizen. And that's why I don't think it's about the parliamentary tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u415	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line, Mrs. Shevked? Here's your next 1030 signature question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u416	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister of Retire, once again we have a question which concerns Mr. Kiril Hristov Teofilov of Montana, Montana District, who is the Secretary of the Municipal Council for Rights and Freedoms at Valchedrum and who has signed a warning protocol. He signed the protocol. He had the right not to sign it, but he signed it. And here again we ask the question: on what legal basis and what is the existence of sufficient operational data to draw up this protocol? Has the prosecution been informed accordingly and what further action has been taken on the case described above? Again, I note that these issues are related to possible, I stress possible, unlawful acts by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and do not affect the personal rights and interests of the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u417	Thank you, Mrs. Shevked. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u418	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Shevked, you have asked me many questions one after the other, one after the other. [[Reply from the National Representative Adlen Shevked.]] No, not on the case, but I can't answer that, I'm sorry. And the reason is very simple of the citizen you ask me about is not at all a warning protocol under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act. I don't know where you're using arguments, arguments that such a protocol has been drawn up. Moreover, provided that this protocol is drawn up in one copy. If we're going to ask ourselves here, someone said, I'm working, as you have noticed, I hope, with documents that I use and which I require from the relevant regional Directorates of Home Affairs in every single question of yours. And when information is received, which is definitely contrary to your claims, our work as a clearing and commitment of the minister here in plenary in parliamentary control becomes absolutely pointless and a waste of time. I'm sorry to say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u419	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line, Mrs. Shevked? No. We continue with Mr. Rangelov's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u420	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, my question is that on 17 June a warning protocol has been drawn up by Mario Rangelov. He has been warned of the responsibility he bears under art. Article 167 169 of the Penal Code. And my question is this: since I am not a lawyer like you and so well aware of these laws, I read that article. 167 and 169 and in connection with the protocol that signed the person, there had to sign that he would not campaign. Can you tell me where in art. Article 167 169 says that the face shouldn't agitate? And if it doesn't, is that legal, is it pressure, isn't it? Because the person is a regional chairman and candidate for a Member of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u421	Thank you, Mr. Rangelov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u422	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Rangelov, you're making it very difficult for me to answer. There is no such protocol and no one can afford to document in one alert protocol under art. 65 of the law of the Ministry of Interior citizen not to agitate. That's not possible. I can't let that happen. If you have such a protocol with such a text, give it to me, together I will invite you to go where you need to go and ask the question: why did the particular employee prevent someone from campaigning for the benefit of one party or another? There's no such case, or at least I don't know that case. What kind of information do I have? We are talking about your district president of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in Pleven, on which a relevant warning protocol has been drawn up. It has been found to be a complaint brought by another citizen, Z.T.C. It's from a weed village. The complaint is against this person, whom you are asking about right now "Mario Rangelov." The complaint is for self-trial and a file with entry No 374000-1652 from last year is registered on the description of the Regional Police Department in Cherven briag. It is in the course of this inspection that has been carried out on this occasion that a warning protocol is drawn up under the Ministry of Interior Act of the person you are asking me about, and this protocol has a number of 374 P-4175 of the 8th, notice if there is no technical error, from 8 April 2021. 8 April 2021! I don't know why you're asking me, maybe it's okay to ask me, too. I'm the Minister of the Interior, even though at the time the Minister of the Interior was Mr. Terziyski from GERB. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u423	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor, Mr. Rangelov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u424	Mr. Minister, that face Mario Rangelov is me! You said there is no such warning protocol, and if there is such a warning protocol, you will personally engage with the employees who forced me to sign it. Mr. Minister, this is the protocol I personally signed. [[shows him]] And I bring him to you to meet him, where he says I'm being warned about my responsibility under art. 167 and 169 of the Penal Code, this is a date 17 June 2021, where I have been warned not to agitate as a candidate for Parliamentary Representative and Regional President! That's the protocol, Minister. So far, you have answered all the questions of my colleagues that this is not pressure. I'll read to you even though I'm sure you know it, Art. 168, which I'm supposed to be warned about, and I'm in this article... The person by means of violence, fraud, intimidation or other illegal means prevents someone from exercising his or her selective right. On June 17th, Mr. Minister, your employees, through the power that we have given them, have violated my electoral rights! It's under art. 167. So they've limited me in my right to campaign, which has led to possible weaker results. Isn't that buying votes, Mr. Secretary?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u425	What?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u426	Is that not buying votes when you are directly interfering with election results by pressing local leaders, candidates for MPs, forcing them to sign protocols in which they are not entitled to campaign, provided that this is nowhere described, in any member?! Isn't that pressure and pressure from the employees? [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Mr. Ananiev, you are not the Minister to answer me! Do you understand? You're not the minister! Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna have to ask you to make an observation. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u427	Thank you, Mr. Rangelov. Mr. Secretary, come in. [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Mr. Ananiev, please don't engage in dialogue with your colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u428	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have repeatedly stated, quite calmly, without such pathos, that first, the minister cannot monitor the work of each individual police officer on a daily basis. [[DPS lines.]] I know what I said. Secondly, I said that I can't even imagine any Ministry of Interior official limiting the right of any Bulgarian citizen to exercise his right to vote, the right to campaign for the benefit of one political party or another. I think you've all heard my words. And in the next place, if there is such a document, present it to me, give it to me and I... [[DPS lines.]] Let me speak, it won't be very long. ...when I meet this protocol, I will immediately take the necessary measures to verify and inform you from this very tribune. So there is no contradiction between what you claim and what I have just said, because with me the information is what I introduced you to. Thank you. [[National Representative Mario Rangelov submitted the document to Minister Boyko Rashkov.]] Thank you. I assure you. Maybe next time we'll take a look at this case. Now let's not read it here and not jump to conclusions, because we don't know what happened there, at the police station, what information they had and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u429	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Rangelov, you have one more question. Would you like to ask yourself that? All right, we'll continue with Mr. Sezgin Mehmet. Here you go, Mr. Mehmet. The signature is 1035.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u430	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister in Retire! I'm just continuing with a similar case Mr. Rangelov asked. In the village of Zlatoustovo, Madzharovo Municipality, Haskovo District, the election campaign, on 17 July 2021, the mayor of the village Mrs. Gulnaz Mehmed Kasav was forced to sign the same protocol. I don't know if you know this, but the mayors of the settlements are those people who organize the technical holding of the elections. And in this regard, with the intention of enlightening each of these specific cases, we ask you the question on what basis have these actions been taken and this lady has signed this protocol? I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the International Organisation report, which I have just met, has paid particular attention to the repression on mayors of municipalities, mayors of mayors and candidates, but note only for some of the political parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u431	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. Mr. Minister, are you ready for an answer? Here you go. Control still has 25 minutes, which means three, four to five more questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u432	That little? Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mehmet, to answer more questions, whatever my wish is, I will be shorter because otherwise we repeat ourselves very much. In relation to the question you are asking, I can answer the following. Yes, indeed, the lady you are asking about her on 7 July 2021, i.e. last year, in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior has received operational data, signals about her empathy for actions related to the violation of the electoral process and on the grounds of art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act drafts a warning protocol. That's the information I have. And as you usually try more or less to politicize your claims, I can tell you that in Haskovo District last year we have not one or two cases of buying and selling votes. Not one and two cases! And the disclosure of these cases took place right along the way of receiving and processing signals, respectively, of information from citizens, whether clearly, from the media, whether on a secret operational path, this is not essential. So I'm just explaining to myself that this citizen is warned by law by protocol is not something invented that doesn't exist in legal peace. On the contrary, it is within the powers of the police authorities, provided for in the Ministry of Interior Act and they have exercised this right. This does not mean that the employees of the Ministry of Interior are embarking during an election campaign in political activity. You know very well that the employees of the Ministry of Interior must be neutral, they are politically unoccupied, otherwise they could not perform their duties properly, they would cover one up, they would pursue another, albeit by law, and so on, which is not normal. So I do not have any other data so that I can continue to develop my answer to the question that you are putting to me, but hardly the police will say: "Here now, this is a mayor from......................... Otherwise, I fully share what you say is that a mayor in a local place is extremely important for the normal running of the elections in the respective locality. I too, as a minister, understand very well the difficulties faced by all of us, all of us voters, with the engine vote in place. Some people were difficult to navigate in this new way of voting and so on, but that is still the law and we had to go that way. We also know that in some of the settlements there was really an attempt to train before voters' elections to know how to approach when they enter the selection committee, how to act, how to vote, because, on the other hand, the relevant committees did not have the right to direct people, because that would mean to direct them to which party to vote. Not that there aren't any cases, but... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u433	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? You have the floor, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u434	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister for Retire, honourable Members! You open a lot of topics, and I really have a huge desire with you to discuss these issues because we clearly don't understand each other. I just want to tell you that I am the chairman of the Youth Organization and we, with the entire youth organization, have organized all the members of our Youth Organization to go around and explain to people how to vote. So in this I see nothing wrong and unusual, on the contrary, we see it as a benefit to overcome this difficulty. And I don't think that's in the context of the question I asked you. But note that in the municipality of Madzharovo, and not only in the municipality of Madzharovo, but also in the municipality of Stambolovo, all the mayors of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have been called to the district departments to sign such warning protocols. We ask you why, with so many signals being made, are only the mayors of the House of Rights and Freedoms doubting that they are buying votes or that they are interfering with electoral actions in some irregularity? That's why we're paying attention to you. I'm sorry that... no, I'm rather glad that we won't be able to ask all the 20,000 questions that we've had to you, because our time won't reach, but that's exactly what bullying means when some signals, some doubts that this is happening, so many 20 thousand, warning protocols have been formed. And only a very small, minimal part of them has some significant continuing activities. Does this mean, as you said, that there is data from previous elections on what is happening, in the next election again these people will be called in because in the previous elections someone has signaled against them? Now that's the system bullying. And that is why we are trying to pay attention to you that this thing is happening in the settlements and that is precisely why the election results, the representativeness of the National Assembly, were chosen with the lowest turnout in Bulgaria. That means pressure, that means blocking the elections. That's why we're paying attention to you not having this thing happen again. And when we say that we and police officers get along well, it really is because they say: But why didn't you check these signals that have been filed against the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, so far, are they justified? They're just doubts. I hope that in the next election will not continue with these..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u435	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. Do you want a hole? You have the floor, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u436	What the people's representative said, I share. There are such concerns, there are such doubts that somewhere someone is almost assisting one political party or another, drawing up alert protocols for certain individuals, especially when they are in the local government, thus affecting the electoral process and so on and so forth. I am convinced that this cannot be and is not a practice in the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to engage in political work. Because one such intervention means that they are engaged in political work. I don't have such signals to intervene in that direction. But Mr. Chairman, I'm very sorry, I just want to say two sentences in connection with the warning protocol that was just given to me as a copy by the previous MP. First of all, there's no second page. Second, there are no signatures. Thirdly, there is only one disturbing word here in this protocol, and I would still like to say that this protocol was drawn up on 17 July 2021 by an official, I will not report to the person Mario Kirov Rangelov. Now see what is the basis for the following, the protocol says: "Do not disturb public order, first. I will now say the word, which gives the real impression that the employee's role is slightly exaggerated not to perform an agitation with this I do not agree with or offer property benefit or financial resources to individuals in order to control the electoral vote for the benefit of a political party. "This is this protocol. Otherwise, as his content was just presented, I was really too embarrassed. However, I see now that the protocol sets out the legal grounds for which the police officer may have the power to draw up such a protocol. Once again, I do not agree only, or perhaps the word "agitation" here in this protocol was unnecessary, but the general context of the written protocol is, I would say, in accordance with a general plan with the relevant law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u437	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bayram, I see you're in the room. Are you going to ask the next question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u438	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I, first of all, would like to thank the President for allowing me to ask the question. We were on the Budget Committee, though we are thinking of the pensioners in our country, we also have a proposal for an increase in the salaries of the policemen, of the employees in the Ministry of Interior, in the same way we think about the Minister of Interior. It was seen that he would not become head of the KKCONPI, and he would be out of a job, yet his pension would be increased. This issue is from Northwestern Bulgaria, not from Kardzhali, but from Montana District, again for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior, namely on the day of the elections during the election campaign for parliamentary elections on 11 July 2021 in Montana, Montana District, Mrs. Miglena Atanasova Ivanova, member of the DPS Regional Council, has signed a warning protocol. And with the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, we ask you the following questions: on what legal basis and what is the presence of sufficient data to draw up a warning protocol? Has the D.A. been informed and what further action has been taken on the case described? We want a specific answer to the questions given, not to fool around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u439	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u440	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajram, I am touched, first of all I will begin, with your concern for my future in terms of my work, whether I will be or will not be in the Anticorruption Commission, or I will receive a pension, dear Mr. Bajram, I sincerely hope that you will be a people representative here in this Chamber and you will have a good profession as is mine. I am an associate professor, a doctor of criminal procedural law, and with great pleasure, as I have not ceased my teaching work, I will go to teach and do science and this will provide me, I assure you, much more satisfaction than to listen to such speeches, as yours at the moment, which is not at the level of a true parliamentarians. I answer in principle the questions you have asked me, you include in your questions assessments of my personality. First do my career, move so that from the first step of a profession you reach its peak and then, on such grounds, come to comment with you. I don't know you and I don't care what profession you have. But now, in two words, because you don't deserve more than two. On the subject you are asking me, the answer is as follows: in relation to operational information and on the basis of art. 65 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior on 9 July 2021 in the respective regional police department, this lady is warned by a protocol not to commit a crime against the political rights of the citizens, as well as for, if engaged in such activities, criminal liability under the Criminal Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u441	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bayram, you have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I see that you are also concerned about my future, whether I will be a MP, or not, the point is that I will continue to fight for democracy in this country and I will never want to reach your peak, because your peak brings back the dark times of the communist regime and your peak is exactly before 1989 and you returned those times again in 2021 to the parliamentary elections. We will continue to fight against these actions and those oral orders you gave for pressure on the voters in our country. And again, you didn't respond properly and didn't say who gave them these signals, whether checks were made on the persons who made these signals about those persons in order to be harassed with these warning protocols. Twenty thousand cases there are of those 20,000. The case is almost all signaled. How many pretrial proceedings are there? How many convicts are there to buy votes? Yeah. Are there any checks initiated against the individuals who have accused other activists of our party of buying votes? Are there any checks against them? No, they're not because they're on your lips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u443	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. A hole? Here you are, you have the right to have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u444	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, no matter how heated we are here and even to see that sometimes we come to absolute futility in the so-called parliamentary control, mainly due to the fault of the MPs of the House of Rights and Freedoms, there is still some significance. Here, when you stand up, some cannot speak a proper literary language. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Secondly, there is an absolute ignorance of even the functions and powers of a minister, as Minister in the case of internal affairs. Someone imagines that the minister is ordering: draw up the one on the other on the fifth warning protocols. This shows absolute political illiteracy, and we and the citizens who are listening to us rely that those who stand here and are MPs like you from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms can help our country's development to move forward. [[Reply from the National Representative Adlen Shevked: "Oooh! "]] That's too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u445	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from Mr. Mummyun, come in. There's about six minutes to the end of the meeting. Colleagues, I hope we can fit in at this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u446	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister of the Interior in resignation, Mr. Ananiev, by the way, this is written in the Parliamentary Control Program, Minister in Retire Some-Who, because you just made a remark. That's how they figured it out, that's how they wrote it, and I believe it's the right thing to do because you see, Mr. Minister, how dynamic these processes are, you're not as much a politician as you are a teacher. I don't know, soon you probably won't be there in that chair, there'll be another person in that chair, most likely.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u447	Mr. Minister, let Mr. Mummyun speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u448	Let me speak. Most likely there will be changes in the composition of the MPs, but there will still be MPs from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u449	Colleagues, five minutes left.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u450	Since you just said that 32 years ago, I should remind you: when you talk about a Movement for Rights and Freedoms, 32 years of history has a Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the State and you claim that there is no contribution to the country's development. Please, then, read history and, if you will, from the transcripts of the National Assembly, you can get acquainted with the activities of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in this House. Regarding my question, it may not be ethical, but it affects another person, namely the municipality of Madzharovo, the village of Dolni Glavanak, Mrs. Zeliha Hassan, in the same way signed a warning protocol during the election campaign. Mr. Minister, you actually imagine that these 20,000 people are possible, potential criminals susceptible to crime, as is by law buying and selling votes, and this phenomenon only occurs from time to time during an election campaign. One person is either prone to crime or not susceptible. You claim that during the election campaign that 20,000. people who are, in principle, normal citizens of the country and contribute to their settlement in one form or another, become criminals. And that's the big question there is everywhere, 20,000 cases, and one of these cases is the person I'm referring to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u451	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. You have the floor, Minister, for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u452	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, it was repeatedly said a long time ago that if there were 20 thousand warning protocols drawn up last year, they did not only concern crimes related to buying and selling votes in our country. Someone, however, really liked this figure 20 thousand, and here it is repeated as some mantra, and it is not true, and because it really happens in us that it is managed with both lies and fraud, and so on, this is one of the examples in this particular direction. That's not true. There are many other crimes in connection with which the authorities of the Ministry of Interior exercise these powers, warning citizens not to take action with which they would commit crimes. I just started giving an example. The signals I will, and I will repeat, because apparently I speak literary Bulgarian and understandable, but someone cannot understand me. Here at the protests that have taken place in the Ministry of Interior, there have been numerous, dozens of signals that someone is preparing provocations that someone will try to challenge one protesting group of citizens against another and so on and in this direction dozens of warning protocols have also been drawn up. However, since the Minister for Rights and Freedoms was not accustomed until last year to see whether in connection with the electoral process buying and selling votes, appeared the minister who is now speaking, who has done this popular activity, and it is therefore very unpleasant now, because indeed as a result of the elimination of the so-called criminal vote for some parties, the election result is quite reduced. And that I know very well, and not only do I know that you will not forgive it, but that does not bother me in any way. And if we are a real rule of law, if we do have the law on a pedestal, you have no moral right from here to talk about how, as the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have done their job against the criminal vote, hardly under this wording for all cases of harassment and pressure, you will justify your own political actions, because from this tribune we have not heard any of you say in those cases where there are convicted persons to buy and sell votes in favour of the DPS, what this party has done to prevent such a crime. And now I'm going to say a few words, because the young man clearly doesn't know these things, and he's probably about to start talking about the Renaissance process, and I'm going to say it specifically. On the subject, we are talking about a settlement in Madzharovo Municipality, Haskovo, in relation to Mrs., who is also mayor of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we do not expect to be from any other party, and has been forced, listen now, the wording is forced to sign a warning protocol. It cannot be forced because the law itself on the Ministry of Interior provides that upon refusal to sign the protocol that the protocol is drawn up, the signature of a witness shall be certified. Read this law at last. And it's right, since I've been lecturing for a long time now, something to learn here in this room. And now, when it comes to this person in the Ministry of Interior services in the region on July 7 in Haskovo, a signal has been received. The operator is the signal, we cannot provide it. You talk a lot here, people don't have to know everything that we're gonna get these materials. Well, you can't take them. Some of them are classified materials and they don't present themselves here, by the way. Not to mention that for a long time you wanted us to provide you with documents for harassment, and I do not yet know any such documents under any law are not drawn up and missing. That is, you want to be given the impossible. And now, the data on the operational signal is about its empathy for actions related to violations of the electoral process, which is why on the basis of art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act contains a corresponding alert protocol. This is the case, like hundreds of others, for which I am most pleased to answer every Friday. So thank you for your attention. If I have the opportunity, I will continue to give you answers on the questions raised in the same way and in which there is absolutely nothing different.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u453	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mummyun, you have an opportunity for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u454	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, Mr. Rashkov puts a number of questions in his answers and one of them is: what have we done as a party to prevent these bad practices and so on? Have you followed the activities of the MPs in the previous parliaments? How many times has this tribune come up and not only this tribune and media, wherever it is, for bad practices and doubts and for manipulations during the electoral process of a different nature? Of course there was. And you as the Ministry of Interior or other ministers when they asked for something from lawmakers, including the MPs of the National Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we voted against, say. Give me such an example as to seal this attitude with you. And as for signals, did you self-inquire about what was in the media space and here in the couloirs of the National Assembly, speaking of buying and selling votes? And here we talked, for 10 days there have been some myths about buying MPs and parliamentary groups. Talk about these things because you are telling me about the impartiality of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, and you are parts of the quota of a political party. How do you explain that to me? You have a love for a political party and hence you claim and explain yourself in impartiality down. By law, yes, but is it moral?! I have very serious doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u455	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. Here you are, Minister. This is the last question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u456	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For several days or weeks we've heard that here and in the couloirs there were myths about one thing or another. [[DPS lines.]] I mean, the Ministry of Interior doesn't deal in myths. It is very convenient that there are parliamentary groups that eventually buy and so on. Where are the specifics? As I see you are a very active MP, present them. I hope you don't deal too much with myths, but with concrete facts. When you present to me as a minister or the Attorney General the data in this regard, be assured that I will immediately issue an inquiry, an investigation where the relevant service is responsible. Don't press charges in advance! If a signal is received and we do not take an attitude, we take a passive position with which someone will eventually see that we are defending a parliamentary represented force or outside the parliament, then we will tolerate criticism in every respect on this basis. Otherwise, such naked statements here, from this tribune, seem extremely inappropriate, against the backdrop of proven crimes for criminal vote, buying and selling votes from [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Reference: there are published judgments that have entered into force. Thank you, I wish you well.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-24.u457	Thank you, Minister, and thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Colleagues, with one notification, we will conclude today's plenary session. There is an order calling an extraordinary plenary session on 28 June 2022, Tuesday, at 11:00 on the following agenda: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act 2022 and 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022 The next regular plenary session of the National Assembly will be held on 29 June 2022 at 9.00 on an additional announced agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
