ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! 121 MPs have registered. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. [[Heckling]] In groups? There are some discrepancies, I see here. Colleagues, the first item on the agenda of the day is: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR FACTS AND FACILITIES FOR GAS PROCEEDINGS FOR THE TRANSFER OF A NATURE GAS FROM THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION Importers - Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. There has been a draft decision to set up a temporary committee. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In recent months, we have seen many dirty campaigns - campaigns of suggestion, campaigns of governments aimed at diverting public attention from the real problems of society. And, of course, in the situation with the Russian military aggression over Ukraine, obviously the government, in the face of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, who has recently become very much over-reacted with the factual inaccuracies, not that it has not been so from the outset, started making various suggestions related to the various natural gas pipelines from the Russian Federation. We have heard such speculations since the time of the caretaker government, when the two of Asen Vassilev were ministers, and regarding the Project for Intersystem gas connection between Greece and Bulgaria and the reasons for its delay and explanations. What prompted us to propose the Project, which I am currently exposing to you, is precisely the harsh speculation on the address of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and our MPs that we somehow have a connection to the construction of the South Stream. There's no way a liberal party doesn't defend the truth. There is no way, my fellow Members, that we can leave something with which the circle "Capital" which was the main speaker of this false thesis and defamatory campaign to continue to do similar actions at the address of the DPS. Therefore, we offer your attention to create a temporary committee to establish all the facts and circumstances regarding the natural gas pipelines from the Russian Federation "South Stream" and "Turkish Stream," also known as "Balkan Stream" but also, of course, the reasons for the delay of the IGB project, the so-called Intersystem gas connection Greece. The aim of the project and the work of the committee, honourable Members, is to bring out absolutely all the facts and circumstances without making any interpretations without any suggestion. We will not enter into this tone, which was used at our address so that society can be able to all interested parties, but most of all, so that the Euro-Atlantic partners of Bulgaria can see what the factual situation is and from then on draw the conclusions of who is lying, who is abusive, who is using factual inaccuracies, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u3	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u4	...and also to find out why the gas connection project was really delayed because we heard different promises. As far as we can see, he hasn't been fully certified yet, he's in the process, and he's not operating. Dear colleagues, I don't need to tell you that your vote will be a clear litmus except for who has sympathy for Russian gas, more importantly, who has sympathy for the truth, who isn't afraid of the truth, who isn't afraid of exposing all the facts and circumstances. And, fellow Members of the Committee Continue Changing, I am sorry, but the purpose of this committee is to stop lying at the address of the DPS, along with the circle of Capital and not hide it. I guess if someone doesn't worry, they'll give their vote. Of course, we propose that the committee work on a money principle, as all temporary committees do, so that there is a level playing field, and we hope that within a month, as we propose, we will be able to do this work if we work intensively. In the end, the committee itself will set its goals, but from now on we are telling you that we aim to remove all facts and circumstances without interpretations, without suggestion and without free writings on the documents and facts that you will all be able to see. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and we hope that reason and truth will win today. At least today! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u5	Mr. Anastasov, let me ask you to read the whole project. Thanks for the show.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u6	Of course, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning natural gas pipelines from the Russian Federation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning natural gas pipelines from the Russian Federation "South Stream" and "Turkish (Balkan) Stream" and the reasons for the delay of the project IGB (Middle gas connection Greece. Bulgaria). 2. The temporary committee consists of 14 Members of Parliament elected on a parietal principle by two from each parliamentary group. 3. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: Chairman:... Members:... 4. The interim committee shall draw up a report on the results of its work and the facts and circumstances established. 5. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of 1 month. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u7	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. I am opening a discussion on the presented draft decision. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor to say that for us the clarification of all facts and circumstances on such important things for the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian agriculture is certainly positive, so we will support this proposal. And only in a slight wink to the DPS colleagues in view of yesterday's discussion. If we were to bring the logic of yesterday's discussion with which our proposal to expand the subject of a committee that we talked about yesterday, it was shattered, if we brought this logic to its natural conclusion, you should have proposed three committees. One for the South Stream and one for the Turkish Stream and one for the IGB, and not one commission for so many things at once, because the argument was: too much work for one commission. Moreover, in one month it is quite ambitious, just to say, for all three topics which, by the way, are very different. But you suggested anyway. We believe that it is not inappropriate to have one committee for all three topics, as it was not inappropriate to expand the subject matter of the existing committee and in the direction of oil supplies not only of gas, and therefore we will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines to Georgi Ganev? Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u10	Mr. Ganev, with all due respect to you, because I know you as a senior assistant when I was a student at the Faculty of Economics, this is not about three separate topics, but about three topics that are related, and they are logically related. Here we are talking about diversification, I think you understand it well, we are talking about addictions, we are talking, of course, about what political decisions have been made to build the specific projects that are described. I think it is not necessary to mention that all three so-called project companies here, because they are, are under the same patrimonium and it is very easy for the work to go on all three at the same time. Not to mention that they also have a logical, and they even have a temporal connection to each other. And as for your project yesterday, I think my colleague Ramadan Atalay was very clear. When you propose such a project, we encourage you to offer it, we ask you not to leave it to us again to offer it, so that we do not overdo it, you will get the support. But if you don't, we will. I would like to draw your attention to one more fact. As a representative of the Democratic Bulgaria, I see that you are in the hall, if you notice there is no time limit in our project. We don't want a period of up, we want everything, the whole chronology and the whole truth. And I invite you to do the same in good faith, because when the truth is not exposed in its entirety, then very easily manipulation is done. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u11	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Are there any other lines to Georgi Ganev? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, a slight irony of fate. When Mr. Anastasov was a student with us, I was chief assistant. The irony is I'm just an assistant now. [[Laughter]] How did this happen? Let's not get into this conversation. [[Laughter]] But otherwise, yes, I fully agree with the proposal for a Commission on Oil Supply and "Lukoil" and the business policy of Lukoil has already been put forward, our proposal. I also noticed that colleagues from GERB also submitted a proposal. They're already in the Office, so send us this morning's e-mail, so we've done it. On this matter, I fully agree with you. I don't know what we've written, I don't remember any more in our proposal if there are years behind, ours was for up to 15th, but when we look at it, of course, this period could fall and end up indefinitely, so there won't be any problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote a draft decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning gas pipelines for the transport of natural gas from the Russian Federation "South Stream" and "Turkish" (Balkan) stream" and the reasons for the delay of the project IGB (IGB) - Bulgaria - submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Vote 156 MPs: 146 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. With this, we move on to nominations for leadership and composition of the Temporary Commission. From the parliamentary group of "We are continuing the Change" "Nastimir Ananiev."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of "We are continuing the Change" we nominate for the Commission Ivan Manev as President and Peter Kulenski as a member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS there is no one to propose, so we are going for nominations to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is proposing Stanislav Anastasov as Chairman and Ramadan Atalay as a member. Dear Members of the Committee We are continuing the Change, I think it is right for you to give up this committee to be presided over by the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u17	Stanislav Anastasov and Ramadan Atalay well, thank you. Mr. Chenchev from BSP for Bulgaria, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the parliamentary group of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria. I propose Philip Popov and Dragomir Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u19	Thank you. Philip Popov and Dragomir Stoinev. Mr. Balabanov, please come in from There is such a people.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of our political party, we propose as members Mrs. Victoria Vasileva and Mr. Andrey Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u21	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u22	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! On behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria we offer Vladislav Panev and Petar Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u23	Thank you. On behalf of rebirth. Stoyan Taslakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u24	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the National Assembly, we propose Iskra Mihaylova and Georgi Georgiev as members.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u25	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I propose that the vote on the composition and leadership be postponed until the entire composition is completed, that is to say, the colleagues of GERB should also propose two people as members or possible leadership. Postpone the vote on the composition of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u27	Let's not fill out the temporary committee now? Is there a reverse opinion? Peter Kullensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u28	Then we'll have to change the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u29	You can fill in later, Mr. Hamid, there's no...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, back proposal. Let us now vote on the composition of the Commission when colleagues from GERB propose their members, we can complement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u32	If they propose a chairman, what are we going to do? This is not serious!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u33	If they want to propose a chairman, now would be the time to be in this Chamber and to do so. I'm voting on Mr. Hamid's proposal. We are voting on Hamid Hamid's proposal to postpone the completion of the Commission. Vote 155 MPs: 40 against 40, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u34	Procedure. Mr. Karadaye? [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] For procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I suggest a 30-minute recess.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u36	Okay, at the request of the DSS parliamentary group, I am announcing a 15-minute break by 9:45. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u37	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. Before the break, we adopted a Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning natural gas pipelines from the Russian Federation "South Stream" and "Turkish (Balkan) Stream" and the reasons for the delay of the IGB project. We have nominations made for members and two nominees for presidents, with no nominations made by the GERB-SDS parliamentary group alone. Since there are already colleagues from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, whether you will make nominations for members eventually and leadership of the Temporary Commission. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u38	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, we are making nominations for Mr. Zhecho Stankov and Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u39	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. I'll read the nominations again. It's been a while. The nominations are: Ivan Manev and Petar Kulenski from "We continue the Change"; Zhecho Stankov and Temenuzhka Petkova from GERB-SDS; Stanislav Anastasov and Ramadan Atalay from DPS; Filip Popov and Dragomir Stoynev from "BSP for Bulgaria"; Viktoria Vassileva and Andrey Mihailov from "There is such a people"; Vladislav Panev and Petar Marinov from "Democratic Bulgaria"; Iskra Mihailova and Georgi Georgiev from ARC, as the nominations for President are Ivan Manev and Stanislav Anastasov. First of all, I am voting on the nominations for members of the Temporary Committee. We vote on the nominations that have been made, there are two out of each parliamentary group. Mr. Bikov also made for GERB-SDS. Voting mode. Vote 175 MPs: for 172, against none, abstention 3. We're revoting at Mr. Karadayi's request. We're voting again. Vote 180 MPs: for 177, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We now move on to the nominations for chairman. The first nomination is by Ivan Manev from Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u40	We need a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u41	Holiday on behalf of the parliamentary group 15 minutes. Colleagues, at 10:15 p.m. here, not at 15 p.m., I'm gonna start waiting. It's all about you. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u42	Colleagues, it's 10:15 a.m. I'm going to resume the meeting. Honourable Members, we voted on the commissioners. We are now going to vote on the nominations made for President. The first nomination is by Ivan Manev. We are voting on Ivan Manev's nomination for President of the Temporary Commission. They voted 211 MPs: 99, against 62, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote. We are revoting Ivan Manev's nomination as Chairman of the Temporary Commission. Vote 221 MPs: for 103, against 87, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on Stanislav Anastasov's nomination as Chairman of the Temporary Commission. Voting mode. They voted 219 MPs: for 89, which is less than the votes for Ivan Manev, against 65, abstention 65. We're overreacting. They voted 223 MPs: 91, against 71, abstention 61. For Ivan Manev's nomination 103 people voted, and for Stanislav Anastasov's nomination 91, on the basis of which... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Whoever has more is chosen...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u43	It's not like that. How many votes is there?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u44	In the second round, when there are two left, Mr. Chobanov, when that is the case and there are two who have the most votes...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u45	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u46	Well, that's what it says. No, it is, Mr. Cholakov. I declare Ivan Manev chairman of the Temporary Commission, based on the fact that he received more votes. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is probably another innovative practice of the "Change" regarding the election of even the Chair of the Temporary Commission. Mr. President, it is a rude mistake to declare someone elected president who has not collected the necessary majority support in plenary. For this reason, I suggest that you cancel, if I may call the choice you have announced, because it does not meet either the Rules or the Constitution, and that there may be a possibility for the parliamentary groups to make new nominations. I think this is the most sensible, I think it will save in part the authority of the plenary and your personal, Mr President, because thoughtless and unfounded such decisions are yet another demonstration, firstly, of the illegitimate decision-making of the majority, which is clearly demonstrated, and secondly, an opportunity to challenge the work of this committee at all. I am making a procedural proposal to cancel Mr. Manev's choice and to allow the parliamentary groups to issue other nominations as chairman of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u48	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Chairman, you have pronounced yourself exactly in the style of "We are continuing the Change" as worked out by the election of the government. [[Applause from the "There is such a people."]] I have a procedural proposal.. Your pronouncement does not comply with the Rules. I will make another proposal to elect an honorary chairman of this committee in the face of Hristo Ivanov. [[Laughter]] We were accused yesterday of sabotaging judicial reform, constitutional reform, KPCONPI and so on. This is the person who will bring things to the end and will establish all the facts and circumstances relating to the subject of the work of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u50	Okay, thank you, Mr. Atanasov. What I just wanted to do is give a short break.. I know that we have not had before in the meeting where I will reconsider this and after the break I will make a decision. I'm gonna take a short break, and I'm gonna rethink it. [[National Representative Kostadin Angelov wants the floor.]] Professor, you're next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, art. 64, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is a definite proposal considered to be accepted if more than half of the present Members of Parliament have voted for it, unless otherwise provided for in the Constitution. Can you announce: for the first candidate how many voted and how many there are for, is there 50 plus 1, for the second one how many voted and is there 50 plus 1? Then, if there was, you can choose between either one of them, but if both of them have not achieved 50 plus 1 of the votes, you cannot announce one of them, because that's what you've decided! That is, none of the two have collected the necessary votes - 50 plus 1 of those who voted. What's so complicated? [[Applause from the "There is such a people."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u52	Thank you. Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u53	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, perhaps from the beginning of the National Assembly we have always said that you are one of the few worthy people in "We are continuing the Change" but, as the Bulgarian people say, it is never too late to become a cutter. Today was the day you rose up for a slice, and now I'm gonna tell you why. About five minutes you have been searching in the Rules of Procedure to convince us that this rape of the Constitution and the Rules you have just done must be adopted by the public. No, Mr. Chairman! And yesterday I saw you standing and looking down at all the lies and crap that were said at the press conference. Stop wearing this shame on your shoulders, because in the history of the National Assembly there is all the nonsense or things that the President of this Parliament does! Again to repeat this decision, because it is a shame to the Bulgarian Parliament, it is a shame to the Bulgarian Parliamentarism something that you promised to return and lied that you would return, and that is why you became a prisoner! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u54	Okay, thank you, Professor. Like I said, I'm taking a short break where I'll think about it. For procedure, Mr. Cholakov? Okay, final procedure by Mr. Cholakov and rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your kindness. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Look how interesting it gets. Does it strike you, do you understand that from now on this Parliament, if it wants to survive for a few more days, will be governed by consensus?! Are you aware, I mean, do you see it? We will elect a consensus candidate for president. There will be no more domination because there is no majority. I won't! You're not going to appoint a head of KKCONPI. There's not one you've decided. You will not accept the KKCONPI Act as you have decided.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u56	Mr. Cholakov, a little bit towards me in the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u57	So, the procedure is, Mr. Chairman, take a break for real. We really respect you, and if you say one thing, excuse me and continue the procedure, it would be great.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u58	Yeah, yeah. That's why I said I'd take a break to think about it. I'm taking 15 minutes off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u59	I'm resuming the hearing. Before the break, I made a mistake, colleagues, so I'm canceling what I announced. [[Applause from DPS.]] I applied procedural rules by analogy, which was wrong of me, for which I apologize to the House. We already have an elected composition of the Commission, we have no President. The decision we adopted obliges the National Assembly, that is, the House to elect a President. Any new suggestions? They must be members of the Commission. Mr. Georgiev, come in for a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are proposing Iskra Mihailova as President of the Commission from the AGE. Thank you. [[Sighs: "Oooh! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u61	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev, for the nomination. Colleagues, if you would like to express an attitude towards the nomination, from the stand, please, not from the seat. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I make a nomination after this situation, I will explain why we supported Mr. Anastasov's nomination. Because if the argument is that a person should not now be elected by the ruling majority but by the opposition to chair this committee, then the same argument is that this candidate should be supported because he was in opposition and when he worked in another government. That is why, and because of the fact that our parliamentary group has absolutely no concerns about everything that this committee would find, we have supported this nomination. In a situation where neither of the two previous nominations raised a majority in order to be broadcast as President of the Commission, I am obliged to make the nomination of Mr. Zhecho Stankov, who has already been supported to be a Member of the Commission, as President of this Commission. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u63	Thank you. Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to refer to the previous application and ask them to withdraw Ms. Mihailova's candidacy because she is the only MP in this room who has abused his parliamentary card by showing her to the police who are trying to arrest her... [[Noise, lines and partial applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u65	Mr. Mitev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u66	That's unacceptable. This man must not be broadcast for any position. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u67	Mr. Mitev! Mr. Gurov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! As we mentioned at the exhibition, we are also keenly interested in the gas connections that have been built and unbuilt in recent years. We think there really should be an opposition representation in this committee. Therefore, my procedural proposal is to vote co-chair the already promoted Mr. Anastasov and Mr. Ivan Manev as co-chairs of the Commission. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u69	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, this proposal is unacceptable because the newly voted decision of the National Assembly does not include in its operative choice of co-chairs. Such a procedural proposal for a change of decision has not been made, but some interim proposal has been made by Mr. Gurov, which I find unacceptable. For this reason, Mr President, I ask you to put to the vote the new nominations that have taken place in order to appoint a President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Will there be other nominations? Mr. Tabutov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u72	Mr. President, I propose that Mr. Peter Kulenski be elected President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u73	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Any other suggestions? Mr. Karadayi, come in. The more suggestions, the more interesting it gets...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gurov, we are not interested in gas projects alive, but we are keenly interested in exposing the lies at our address, spoken by anyone, including Kiril Petkov, and the facts to come out, so we have proposed this committee, so we also propose a chairmanship to this committee. Unfortunately for us, Mr. Anastasov was not elected President of the Commission and we propose Mr. Ramadan Atalay, who was elected Commissioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u75	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Are there any more nominations? I won't. We begin with the vote on nominations in the order of the nomination of the potential candidates of the Commission. First Iskra Mihaylova, then Zhecho Stankov, then Peter Kulenski and finally Ramadan Atalay. Co-chairship is not possible because the adopted decision states that there is only one President and is already too late for editorial amendments in it. We are voting on the proposal for Iskra Mihailova to be President of the Temporary Commission. They voted 214 MPs, 21, against 43, abstention 150. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the nomination of Zhecho Stankov for Chairman of the Temporary Commission. Vote 214 MPs: 88, against 54, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Peter Kulenski's nomination as chairman of the Temporary Commission. Vote 217 MPs: 103, against 65, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u76	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u77	We're revising Peter Kullensky's nomination. There were clear instructions on the right. [[Laughter]] Vote 217 MPs: for 101, against 68, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the nomination of Ramadan Atalay. They voted 216 MPs: 91, against 66, abstention 59. Revoting procedure please, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose that we suspend the procedure for electing the chairman of this committee. In any case, we have elected Commissioners, and according to our Rules, the President of the National Assembly may convene the meetings of all committees. From this point of view, Mr President, I am proposing that you draw up a draft Internal Rules for the Commission, where a point is included that the Commission elects one of the members of the Commission as President and convenes the first meeting of the Commission. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u79	Thank you. After all, nominations? In this situation, I will begin to nominate. No nominations? There is. Mr. Ganev. [[Reply.]] Is it Mr. Georgiev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u80	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We nominate Georgi Georgiev as Chairman from the ARCHIVE.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u81	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any other nominations? From GERB-SDS other nominations? I won't. There are no other nominations. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u82	In Rwanda, that will never happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u83	Excuse me? I put to the vote Georgi Georgiev's nomination for President of the Temporary Commission. Vote 212 MPs: 16 against 88, abstention 108. The offer is not accepted. Any other nominations? [[Heckling]] Okay, if there are no other nominations, we've exhausted this item from the agenda. Let's move on to the next one: LAWS FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS. There are two bills in fact, one with importers Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, and the next with importers Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. There has been a report from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs "two separate reports for each of the bills. There is also a Report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management under the Law submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mr. Kulenski, to present us with the reports of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-5, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karadaye and a group of MPs on 19 January 2022. At its regular meeting held on 13 April 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed a bill amending the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-5, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karaday and a group of MPs on 19 January 2022. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Georgi Nikolov, Executive Director, Mrs. Galya Manassieva, Director of the Directorate of Public Procurement and Methodology, and Mrs. Anastasia Venkova, State Expert in the Directorate of Public Administration and Methodology. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr Hamid Hamid, who pointed out that it aims to eliminate all possibilities to circumvent procurement procedures and create corruption practices. He noted that the proposed bill eliminates the possibilities for concluding framework award agreements, as well as the inhouse procedures. The proposed bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. A written statement from the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Association of University Hospitals, the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria and the Association of Bulgarian Association Natural Gas. The Ministry of Finance sets out considerations for maintaining the existing rules governing the internal award between public contracting entities, as well as framework agreements, indicating that they transpose the provisions of Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement and repealing Directive 2004/18/EC and Directive 2014/25/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of contracts by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors and repealing Directive 2004/17/EC. The opinion focuses on the need to preserve the opportunities for the award of activities to controlled legal entities under the conditions of the In House, which are relevant and applicable in a number of areas. It is pointed out that the abolition of framework agreements will limit the opportunities for achieving efficiency and better governance. The opinion of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works draws attention to the current provisions governing the award of public contracts through an inhouse procedure and through the conclusion of framework agreements, pointing out that they have achieved harmonisation of the Bulgarian legislation with the European public procurement legislation by introducing common rules and legal institutes for the whole of the European Union. In the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria it is noted that framework agreements and inhouse contracts are laid down in the European Directives of 2014 and can be considered to be effective means with a broad application for the award of enhanced prevention through strict and multi-level control by the verifiers. The opinion of the Association of University Hospitals states that the proposed bill is in absolute contradiction with European Union law, with the elimination of these award methods being capable of leading to legal claims by the European Commission as well as by the persons concerned. The Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria does not support the proposed bill, as the current provisions on inhouse award have been transposed precisely and correctly, and the Institute of Framework Agreements allows for a more flexible way of action in the award of public contracts with a more specific subject matter. The Bulgarian Association of Natural Gas states that the proposed change will lead to over-regulation of energy activities and will increase the administrative burden on energy companies carrying out much of their own capital activities. Mr. Georgi Nikolov, Mrs. Desislava Stojkova and Mr. Andrey Tsekov, Deputy Minister of Finance took part in the public discussion. Mr. Nikolov expressed a negative opinion on the main proposals in the Bill, focusing on the directives whose provisions have been transposed with the texts proposed for annulment. He pointed out that the cancellation of the In House award would distort competition and added that the problem itself is rooted in the implementation of the procedures. Takes note of the need to maintain framework agreements, pointing out that they are a key instrument for centralised award and helping to achieve a more flexible approach. Mr. Nikolov expressed support for the proposal, which removes the exception introduced in art. 13, para. 1, t. 18 of the Public Procurement Act, stating that it unduly extended the scope of the exceptions. Ms. Stoykova noted that the award procedures proposed to be abolished are regulated in directives and proposed to introduce different legal mechanisms for preliminary, current and subsequent control, while maintaining framework agreements and inhouse award. Mr. Tsekov pointed out that the In House award and framework agreements are a competitive instrument, but due to the incorrect implementation of the procedures restrictions are being prepared for the In House award, as well as additional requirements for the contractors. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Krum Zarkov, Andrey Mihailov, Branimir Balachev and Hamid Hamid. National Representative Krum Zarkov pointed out that the inhouse award is regulated in European Union directives which are mandatory for Bulgaria and added that it is necessary to provide additional requirements for the performers without removing the In House procedure. With regard to the framework agreements, Mr. Zarkov pointed out that it is necessary to verify how they are implemented. National Representative Hamid Hamid noted that no control was carried out on the framework agreements and therefore they had acquired the form of cartel agreements. National Representative Andrey Mihailov pointed out that the Institute of In House award should be maintained by implementing a comprehensive reform and increasing control of procedures. People's representative Branimir Balachev pointed out that the directives allow for the existence of inhouse award and framework agreements, which solve a number of problems, and added that he would make proposals to increase control and create a possibility to renegotiate under certain conditions. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with 2 votes in favour, 0 votes in favour and 14 votes abstentions proposed that the National Assembly should not adopt in the first vote a bill amending the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-5, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karadaiy and a group of MPs on 19 January 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u85	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Come in now with the report on the other bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This Regulation for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-53, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs on 13 May 2022. At its extraordinary meeting held on 26 May 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-53, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev and a group of MPs on 13 May 2022. The meeting was attended: by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works: Mr. Grozdan Karadzhov, Minister, Mrs. Deliana Ivanova and Mr. Yavor Penchev, Deputy Ministers, and Mrs. Katarina Gramatikova, Head of the Minister's Office; by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Sirma Atanasova, Minister's Advisor; by the Public Procurement Agency: Mr. Georgi Nikolov, Executive Director, Mrs. Galya Manassieva, Director of the Ministry of Staff and Methodology. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by the National Representative Zlatomira Mostrova, who pointed out that it aims to create a legal mechanism to enable contracts for the award of works with subject-matter construction, repair, reconstruction and modernization, supplies and services, engineering contracts and overcoming inflation risk by applying objective and fair indexing of the value of the contracts concluded under the Public Procurement Act. She added that the Bill provides for a methodology to be established, an annex to the Rules for Implementation of the Public Procurement Act, which will introduce uniform and objective criteria for the indexing of prices under contracts. In conclusion, Mrs. Mostova pointed out that the envisaged new legal opportunities to index the contracts concluded will help to overcome the difficulties in implementing the investment projects of the state and municipalities due to the significant increase in raw materials, materials and supplies prices. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. On the bill were received written opinions from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria and the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria. The Ministry of Finance expresses principle support for the development of a methodology to enable objective indexing of the value of public contracts with a view to overcoming the effects of rapidly progressive inflation in the country by providing specific legal and technical notes and proposals related to ensuring a more flexible approach in determining the mechanism for updating the price of existing public contracts. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works supports the Bill by offering some legal and technical notes and proposals. The Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria and the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria express a positive opinion on the Bill. In the discussion held Minister Grozdan Karadjov noted that the Bill aims to address the serious problems related to inflation processes. Mr. Karadjov added that if no concrete steps are taken to index prices, much of the European funds are at risk of losing themselves. The Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency, Mr. Nikolov, expressed support for the bill and the opinion expressed by the Ministry of Finance on it. Mr. Savin Krastev pointed out that the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria maintains the written opinion and stressed that the bill creates a real prerequisite for legal regulation that will allow at least partially compensation for the contractors of the contracts which will fall within the scope of the methodology adopted by the Council of Ministers. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Andrey Mihailov, Yavor Bojankov and Milen Mateev. Mr. Mihailov noted that the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" will support the proposed bill, and between the first and second votes will make proposals for its clarification. Mr. Bojankov voiced concerns about achieving the opposite effect of price indexing in possible price reductions of basic goods and materials in the future. Mr. Mateev said that the Parliamentary Group of "We are continuing the Change" will support the bill, and between the first and second votes will comply with the comments and suggestions expressed in the opinions of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs unanimously with 13 votes for the Constitutional Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-53, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 13 May 2022. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u87	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. There is also a report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government on the bill submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. Here you go, Mrs. Ivanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-53, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 17 May 2022, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-53, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs on 13 May 2022. Mr. Grozdan Karadzhov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mrs. Deliana Ivanova and Mr. Yavor Penchev, Deputy Ministers of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Andrey Tsekov, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Anastasia Venkova, State Expert in the Department of Law and Methodology. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev. He stressed that the problem of inflation and price increases throughout the manufacturing sector, especially in the prices of a number of basic construction products, and the resulting problems of the implementation of infrastructure projects of the state and municipalities have been discussed in the Commission several times. These circumstances require the need to establish a legal mechanism which enables contracts to be implemented already for the award of works with the subject of construction, repair, reconstruction and modernisation, supplies and services and to overcome the consequences of progressive inflation in the prices of construction materials, supplies and services. The proposed changes provide for a methodology to be developed as an annex to the Rules of Implementation of the Law to introduce uniform criteria for the indexing of prices under contracts. Thus, the Bill gives the legal basis for finding a solution to individual cases. The bill does not have a direct impact on the budget, the methodology which is intended to be developed and adopted by the Council of Ministers may have an impact. The Commission received an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities expressing the principled support to the Bill. Mrs. Silvia Georgieva, Executive Director of the National Association of Municipalities, stressed in her presentation to the Commission that with the adoption of the proposed changes the municipalities will be given the legal opportunity to index and continue the implementation of contracts of more than 1100 projects worth more than 4 billion. lv. Mr. Grozdan Karadjov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, noted that the proposed bill is not an act that comes to serve the executive companies. He stressed that the state could lose about 6.7 billion. lv. European funds, if they do not pay the builders back the projects they are already working on. Projects of 1.1 billion. lv. implemented under the Operational Programme on Environment, 1.3 billion. lv. under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth", separate municipalities implement projects of about 4.3 billion. lv. The problem lies in the fact that the prices of construction materials have increased significantly compared to the time when tenders were submitted and contracts were concluded. Minister Karadzhov informed the MPs that a draft methodology has been developed together with the Ministry of Finance, which is in the process of coordination with the interested branch organizations and based on the estimates and analyses made at this stage the project provides for up to 15% indexation of contracts. Mr. Andrej Tsekov, Deputy Minister of Finance, expressed support for the Bill, noting that different options for solution to the problem were considered, but considered as the most appropriate proposed amendments to the Law. During the discussion, the MPs expressed their basic support for the need to index contracts, and questions were also raised regarding the criteria for financing the existence of funds in the budget and budgets of municipalities and the possible consequences of failure to comply with the contracts projects. Ms. Deliana Ivanova Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works explained that if the projects are not implemented, funds will have to be returned. She pointed out that operational programs have saved funds and municipalities and water companies have their own participation. Minister Karadzhov noted that, along with the savings of the programs from unrealized projects in the budget, buffers are provided. Mr. Manol Genov raised the question whether municipalities have the necessary financial resources for the indexing of contracts. Ms. Silvia Georgieva Executive Director of the Association stressed that municipalities do not have the necessary financial resources and rely on additional funds from the budget update. People's representative Bogomil Petkov supported the Bill, noting that the indexation is necessary to solve the problems of both the state and municipalities as contracting entities and for the builders who perform the contracts and for the citizens. People's representative Zarko Marinov said that the parliamentary group will support the bill, as similar problems can occur in the future and therefore a similar text is needed, stressing the need for the budget update. People's representative Georgi Georgiev also said support for the Bill, paying attention to the rise in prices and the need for further assessment of the planned limitation on the draft methodology and the opportunities for a differentiated approach in individual cases, depending on the level of increase in the prices of individual materials, goods and services. People's representative Escheref Escheref said support for the Bill, because otherwise municipalities are unable to implement their investment programmes. Individual contractors stop the execution of contracts already concluded and some of the successful contracts refuse to enter into contracts at these prices. People's representative Nikolay Nankov expressed his opinion that indexing is necessary, but the measures were late and a methodology could be adopted without any changes in the Law. Furthermore, it is not clear how there will be a substantial increase in which cases there is a lack of a clear definition and the proposals under the project are contrary to current provisions of the Law. People's representative Elena Guncheva also shared the need to find a solution for indexing of contracts, but according to her there is a contradiction with the rules of the Law in force, there is no legal definition of substantial change, and the restriction on the draft methodology does not give a solution to the problem if inflation increases more. On the basis of the discussions and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 11 votes in favour and 4 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-53, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Ivanova. Will there be an opinion from importers? [[Replications between the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Hamid Hamid.]] As you understand and by the order of import your is first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since you have opened the floor by the order of submission, and Mr. Ananiev generously gave in to the opposition, I would like to remind you that this bill was tabled on January 19th. Almost six months later, he entered the Chamber, not because of your generosity, but because Mr. Ananiev introduced another bill concerning the same law. You cannot break the Rules of Procedure and not allow ours to be considered, for which I thank the importers of the other bill, especially to Mr. Ananiev. Obviously, from now on, this is the formula... if the opposition is to rely on its bill, the ruling majority must also submit something under the same law in order for this bill to see the light of day, although I realise how relative the words..... the ruling majority.. these days. But let's get on with it. We offer a very short, clear bill with several texts. The first of them is the complete cancellation of the Inhouse procedures, the departmental award. The report rightly noted Mr. Krum Zarkov's remark that these are directives of the European Union. Let me make a modest remark that the regulations of the European Union apply as they have been adopted, while the directives allow for certain exceptions in their transposition. I also believe that this works well in Europe, works normally, but in Bulgaria the implementation has reached the size of violations and I think there are conditions for removing the award. In several election campaigns you spoke all colleagues, only last year three campaigns you led all with a promise to remove the inhouse award. The DPS wrote it to you and offered it to you. Here's your chance to remove the inn house award so it doesn't come out that you're lying to your constituents. Here's your chance, remove it and say that you just had another job and forgot to remove these texts as you promised your constituents. Of course, this is the case where the need to remove this has arisen, the case with the Automation and the award of the construction of the Motorway of Hemus. As for this award, I see it causing turmoil in the big Italian family from yesterday, so it will continue to make obvious problems, so the fastest way we should remove this inhouse award. The other text we are tabling is to remove the framework agreement from the Public Procurement Act, which also works normally in Europe. With us, in our conditions, again with problems in law enforcement of the text for a framework agreement, it has come to the point that the framework agreement has become a cartel agreement. A majority of the orders for a framework agreement came to the conclusion that such an agreement was concluded between two or three companies without a clear subject matter, not to mention a price or pricing methodology. This actually closes contracts for a very long period of time between several participants and the purpose of this framework agreement is to isolate and remove other market participants from the distribution of public resources. And the third exception is for the so-called golden fence of a former governor, who had to make a special exception for the construction work, and the gold fence, also known as the Swiss cheese, at the Bulgarian border through which refugees passed, to be built without holding a public procurement. Thank you in advance for the support of all parliamentary groups. I am sure that you will fulfill your promise, taken over to all the voters, and will support our proposed bill. As for the other bill, we believe that such an indexion is needed and we are ready to support the Bill of Mr. Ananiev and a group of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u91	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Opinion of an importer and on the other bill. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The bill that we propose for amendment and supplement to the Public Procurement Act is logical in the current inflation crisis, in which there are a lot of orders and framework agreements that are not completed, such as the focus, of course, and what is written in the motives above all, here we are talking about a subject: construction, repair, reconstruction, modernisation, supply of services, including engineering, and we want there to be a legal mechanism. With the proposal, we are actually giving the Council of Ministers the opportunity to develop a methodology in which to make this indexation, which is our part that we should do in the National Assembly. I personally also wish that in this methodology, although there is such a proposal at the moment, there is also an attitude to contracts that have been concluded at increased prices on times from what has been. In a word, if a year or a year and a half ago we didn't have an inflation crisis, but in fact the contract was concluded at higher prices at times, should we index such a contract? And that's why we give the Council of Ministers this opportunity with a methodology to determine how this indexation should be and actually be fair. Companies that are affected may be compensated during the indexing, but for companies that have benefited in some way when they have concluded these contracts, perhaps there is no need for such an indexation. This is already the methodology of the Council of Ministers can determine it. So the bill itself is not a very long idea is to create such a methodology that can be applied in this situation, which is currently as force majeure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I'm opening a discussion on both laws. Peter Petrov for speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u94	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My speech relates to the proposed bill by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. So far, I have heard how it is appropriate to allow the Council of Ministers to make a single price update on contracts already concluded, to not say hundreds of millions of levs. On such legislative proposals, such an update should occur when, according to the minister concerned, there has been a substantial increase in the prices of essential goods and materials, and the minister concerned should accept what the actual value should be, to what extent at the time of the change in the prices of raw materials and raw materials. All this, honourable Members of the National Assembly, is asked by the importers of the Bill to be determined by a methodology to the annex to the Rules of Procedure! Still, it's a good thing they didn't offer it to be on a flying sheet or on a napkin. With regard to such methodologies to be singled out by the respective minister, honourable Members, we have a strong concern caused by our bitter experience with some orders of the Minister of Health, when there was one order in the afternoon, there was another order. Their appeal was useless. We are very worried that there may be one methodology of the minister concerned in the morning, that it will be cancelled in the afternoon and that there will be another methodology, the next day, another methodology, depending on how they need to be updated, understand the higher, and with unknown parameters, the corresponding prices of contracts already concluded. I refer to the importer's statement a moment ago that these contracts, which were highly priced, should have a mechanism to update. In our view, there must be a mechanism to end if a contract has been concluded with ten times higher prices. Not to update them, we must immediately stop these contracts, terminate them if we believe that they have been concluded only for huge, colossal, hidden profits by reassigning them to subcontractors at ten times lower prices, such as standard practice. Not the sole minister to have the opportunity to decide to call through the respective contractor and to say: I have decided today to lower your prices, but how much I decide; do you agree, shall we agree in any way?! That's how I interpret this thing! That's how I interpret it! Therefore, colleagues, I cannot support the creation of such sole methodologies by the executive to determine, firstly, what are the current prices of raw materials and materials; secondly, how much to update prices and then they can determine whether or not they can and reduce them at their own discretion, because this seems to me to be blackmailing the respective contractors under these contracts without defending any firm. I have no conflict of interest in that regard. Dear Members of Parliament, I believe that if such a methodology is created, first of all, it should be in the Law and not be given excessive, sole freedom to ministers in the executive power, let us not forget that only yesterday in the coalition they fought for money! And the coalition fell apart for money!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u95	It's not broken yet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u96	We'll do everything we can to make it fall apart. We must not allow the money issue to be left to be resolved alone. If you have looked at the design of the methodology given to us, you will see that there is an example of 15%. As far as I understand from the draft budget update, especially with regard to social income, inflation is set at 10%. Here we have set a 15% increase, an update on this methodology, for example, depends on the minister, waking up in the morning, how much this percentage will be. As far as I have surveillance, in Bulgaria, real inflation is perhaps about 20%, without being specific. I therefore believe that if we are to adopt such a law, first of all, this methodology must be laid down in the law itself, in an annex to the Law, and there must be some limits to this methodology. To have limits within which prices can be updated, to know in advance up to 15% up, to 15% down can be updated. Not for anything else, but because even contracts for public procurement are made for predictability! The Treaties require foresight from both sides of their country to know how much it will receive, in what period and to be certain that it will receive them. And not to conclude under certain prices and conditions, the contractor to start working in the middle of the execution, when he has already invested a lot of money and hired subcontractors, to call him the minister and say: it seems to me that this public procurement is greatly increased, let me now reduce the price of the contract, because I have decided because the National Assembly has allowed me a methodology in which to do so. The same statements I heard yesterday, by the way, from Minister Karadjov, who said: but this money the National Assembly has voted to be paid out on several occasions said it. Is that what you want, colleagues, to do the same thing, and to allow another minister to justify himself with us as MPs by adopting this bill in this form? It is not right, because the National Assembly has now become.. I do not want to say this, but a kind of mop for the executive power to justify the decisions that have been passed through the National Assembly! Therefore, please do not allow this bill in this form to be adopted! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u97	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to Peter Petrov? Tsoncho Ganev for the first line. Second line "Nastimir Ananiev." Colleagues, I'm thinking about giving it a break at 12:00 and not half an hour, but 20 minutes, since there were breaks within today's session already. The meeting today is at 2:30. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u98	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Petrov, it is nice of all that you have said to highlight and perhaps say that we are going back to the presumption, since this National Assembly has been established, since it was established that everything that was promised to change in GERB's policies is now being implemented again. At the moment, a bill is adopted and it is wanted to be adopted, which will simply be a rubber stamp and will delegate powers to the Council of Ministers in the face of some minister who may today be a minister, tomorrow may not be a minister, to quarrel over money and tomorrow the new minister will decide a new methodology, to accept it against the companies that please him, or to what is in his economic interests. That is precisely why what you have done as an exhibition, I think you should say it in simple terms, because some colleagues may not have understood it, some of the viewers may also have misunderstood it, but it is an extremely important point, because we are giving the Minister the power to draw up a methodology in which to index prices. The minister is single-handed. The Council of Ministers will accept it and it will be over, and the people's representative in the Chamber will not be able to say anything, as the Bill of the Council of Ministers continues The Change.............and we are turning Parliament into a rubber stamp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Ananiev for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Petrov, just a few remarks to your speech. You said that the opinion of an importer I have stated that contracts with increased prices will also be indexed, which, in fact, on the contrary, I said that if they are found, the methodology should allow, if there are such contracts that are higher prices, obviously there is no indexing, these public contracts and framework agreements should not be indexed. The methodology should give this opportunity because at the moment what I saw, which was proposed on the site Ministry of Regional Development, I did not see such an opportunity. We actually want with this methodology to give a gesture to the correct companies, the companies that are just in difficulty due to the circumstances that are at the moment. You also mentioned 15%. I guess it's based on this methodology again, which I personally don't know why it was published, because we don't have a law yet, we don't actually have any changes to the law. I don't know who it's consistent with, maybe it's just a proposal from the Ministry of Regional Development. I don't know if this is still discussed at the Council of Ministers, but the idea is, in fact, once this legislation is adopted, because this is still just a first reading, this is not a second reading, to become a law tomorrow, the idea is to correct companies that currently perform different public contracts or under framework agreements have obligations, they have to get this indexation so that they can finish their contracts, as all those who are involved in this sector know what the situation is right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Is there a third line to Peter Petrov? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov, for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Petrov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will keep my statement on the substance of the Bill for later, but I would like to make a reply to Mr. Petrov, as he said several times that a minister would do this methodology and almost single-handedly decide what will happen. That's not true. The bill provides for this methodology, which is obviously the subject of disputes, but now is not the issue, but this methodology will be determined by Rules of Law Enforcement. And the Rules for Law Enforcement are adopted by an act of the Council of Ministers, that is, it will not be the sole decision of a minister, but it will be this act. By the way, in the Public Procurement Act, Mr. Petrov, more than 22 times has been referred to for these rules, i.e. this law is applied in this way. There's basically something to say. I will retain my right when it is my turn, but it does not respond, it is not in fact sustained that the minister himself will fix and change this methodology.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u103	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, for the coat, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, Mr. Ananiev! In your original importer's opinion, it seemed to me that you asked the rhetorical question, and those at higher prices, should they be indexed? Maybe I misunderstood you correctly, but once again I will repeat my view that those at increased prices must immediately and immediately be terminated, and not create some methodology that will allow for some escalation, whether up, whether down. Next, you say that you are not familiar with this methodology, which was introduced to us specifically in the Legal Commission and which talked about an indexation of 15% because inflation was 15%. This is just a testimony to what kind of batak is now management, because even you don't know this draft methodology itself will come into force, or will it be changed for example to 30%, or to 40%. Then some companies have to buy a drink if those 15 who were a project become 40. Next, you mentioned in the line that correct companies should be indexed. I'm just going to ask.. by getting an indexation, will they return some of the money under the table or will they not return this indexation? Will they buy, will there be anything about executive power when they get the right indexing companies or not? At least sign the Law, know it clearly, not with a methodology that colleague Zarkov said would be adopted by an act of the Council of Ministers. Colleague Zarkov, yesterday I heard in the media about a conversation between Minister Karadzhov and Minister Asen Vassilev: I have heard this in the media, I am not saying that it is true and that this conversation has taken place, but assuming that what I have heard is true, I am very worried that even if these rules are adopted by a decree of the Council of Ministers, this will actually happen, given that we have a triple or quadruple coalition so far, as you would like to call it, which has distributed the ministries of sectors and each is responsible for its own sector. At least such statements were made by ministers. So I do not think that it is any justification that, since the Rules will be adopted in full by the Council of Ministers, this will guarantee some transparency, guarantee honesty and correctness in determining the methodology and the relevant current prices of goods and raw materials. That is why we will not support the bill in this part. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u105	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. To make a statement, Danny Kanazireva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u106	I absolutely agree with what has been said so far. Colleagues, I will also take a purely expert opinion because we all realize that this bill is extremely important. It is important to enable companies to continue working in this difficult financial situation in the country and growing inflation. But, Mr. Ananiev, so signed, this bill and its reference to the methodology, which, again, I say and repeat, as my colleague, has been missed in the Legal Commission, this bill will not result in the result that it is supposed to aim at. You've said correct companies several times. Excuse me, but what does a correct firm mean and who decides whether a firm is correct or not, or this bill and this methodology only aims at opening corrupt practices and conflicting practices in its implementation. And I'll tell you something concrete. You, in the Bill, have foreseen that there should be an excavating indexion in the presence of a substantial increase in prices. That's your imperative. However, the methodology to which the Bill refers, the norms of the directive. 9 and so on. 10 are operative, i.e. the contracting entity can deviate and refuse indexing. This immediately raises the question: some companies will be allowed and indexed, others definitely not, as recorded? We strongly believe that if there are such conditions and there should be an indexation, it should be imperative if these conditions are present and they are clearly described in the Law and not, as colleagues said, arbitraryly to do so with a decision or methodology of the Council of Ministers. About the 15%. Firstly, at the moment and with this inflation, more and more galloping inflation, a very large part of you, as you mention only and mostly talk about the construction sector, that inflation is really already over 20%. The setting of this threshold will not result in the economic balance, which is supposedly intended to be achieved for the sector with the change in the bill. Apart from that, it goes against the Public Procurement Act itself and the Public Procurement Directive in its art. 72, where it is provided that where a price increase is required, it may not exceed 50%. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 9 of the methodology is written that the indexation is permissible only if the entity provides funding and possibility. Mr. Ananiev, first of all, to conduct a public procurement, I think it was art. 110 of the Public Procurement Act, and now has the requirement to declare one, to provide funding. If there is an indexing clause in the conclusion of the contract, the contracting authority shall be responsible for providing funding for the subsequent indexing. By placing this secured funding, you are opening a wide door for vicious practices and electing one company to index the contract, on another not. What does an opportunity by the contracting authority mean? I'd like you to interpret to me what it means when possible by the applicant. Well, you're reopening a wide door of abuse again, and contracting entities can play with contractors, and with only one apparent inability to refuse such an indexation. In this way you do not defend, quote your words, correct companies and really they get indexed, and open the opportunity for each contracting entity to play and to judge by choice who to index and to whom not. Read it. 9 of the methodology. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10 You have even written that if the contracting authority refuses to index or restrict, in the sense of the criteria set, it does not have any legal consequences for it. In total contradiction is the bill you have tabled and the methodology to which it refers will be indexed or there will be no indexation. We believe that if the objective is really to protect the contractors, and under clear conditions, these conditions must be described in the Bill. It cannot be that this unpredictableness and this instability, which the bill and Methodics are all giving rise to, i.e. the completion of the public procurements that they have started, and the galloping inflation cannot continue. You will not achieve the goal with the introduced bill and the methodology that has been laid down for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. A line from Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Kanazireva, I'm a little confused in your speech. At first, you said you were almost against indexing. Then you talked about over 50% indexing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u109	This is bullshit!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u110	You said that for the rule, which is, you can't exceed 50% of the contracts. And indexing, if it is 15% by the methodology that you have commented a lot, although I, in the opinion, and in the previous line, said that this methodology, in my opinion, is premature and is most likely a methodology that the Ministry of Regional Development has only launched. Because since there's no law passed, and you don't know how this law will look, you can't run a methodology until you know what the law says. [[Reply by MP Danny Kanazireva.]] The Ministry of Regional Development has published one, I said. I personally said that I didn't think it should be released before we voted on the text of the Law to know how to look. Now you talk a lot about abuse. I can't be such an expert on abuse as you. Maybe they create such opportunities...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u111	Mr. Ananiev, it is not correct as an address to the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u112	No, no, since someone says there's a lot of abuse, they have to have expertise. If not, that means populism....that he's talking in general. Or you're an expert on embezzlement and you say: you give prerequisites...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u113	Mr. Ananiev, get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u114	...a lot of abuse or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u115	Mr. Ananiev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u116	You'll have the opportunity for the back, Mrs. Kanazireva, don't get excited.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u117	Mr. Ananiev, basically on the line, no excitement, no reference to excitement, no reference to forensics on abuse.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u118	In her statement, Mrs. Kanazireva mentioned three times...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u119	Mr. Ananiev, we're not discussing! Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u120	I replicate her statement. Since she's talking about embezzlement, she's obviously an expert on abuse, and I can't argue with her. So what you're suggesting, or what you said... First of all, you said you were against indexing. Then you said 15% might not be enough, and 20% you're offering. [[Reply by MP Danny Kanazireva.]] Will you stop replicating me? You have the right to the back of your head, you can say anything you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u121	Mr. Ananiev! Wait, Mrs. Kanazireva, you'll have a duplicate, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u122	The other thing you tried to do as a suggestion, in fact, is that this methodology would be a firm by company. The methodology will be one, it will be accepted and it will be known whether a firm falls into it or not. Here, you see the suggestion you've made three times with the statement that a company by company will be defined for these rules, for those rules. There will be no methodologies for all companies. There will be a methodology that will be clear, and to see how and by what criteria companies will be indexed. There's not gonna be a chance for a firm to pick and say, "This is my firm, that one's not mine." This isn't GERB, I'm sorry! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u123	Mr. Ananiev, I'm not going to impose a remark on you now, but I'm warning you one last time. To address a Member of the National Assembly with the words you are clearly an expert on abuse and does not meet the requirement to respect each other in this House. Second line to Danny Kanazireva? Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Kanazireva, from your statement I understood the following: from On the other hand, I understand that it is very likely that GERB will offer precision to bring some transparency in the Law. I cannot understand, colleagues, in this National Assembly, what are the positions of political parties, who are fighting against corruption. I hope everyone, but I very much hope, Mrs. Kanazireva, that we reach a consensus so that the so-called transparency, in the first place, bets on the Law. And next, let us not allow us as MPs to be used by the executive as an excuse for the ministers' actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u125	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Is there a third line to Danny Kanazireva? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u126	First in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u127	But first, it's the back. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Petrov, I absolutely agree, and I believe that there should be clear rules created and recorded precisely in the Law and that we should not allow any executive to play by changing the terms whenever he wants. And in this way, in fact, the most elegant expert way, I explained it to Mr. Ananiev, but with him and with much of their group, the expert conversation is obviously unthinkable. He failed to understand me and began again with his personal attacks at an extremely low and ugly level, which does not match the level of this tribune. And, Mr. Ananiev, I will now say to you that you are extremely unprepared, extremely incompetent to import...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u129	Mrs. Kanazireva, get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u130	...any proposal and decide any crisis in Bulgaria. God save Bulgaria, if the likes of you decide the case...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u131	Mrs. Kanazireva!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u132	...and rule Bulgaria for a long time! And you're the ones who made it clear yesterday that you're up to your neck in corruption. Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u133	Mrs. Kanazireva, I think I made a reasonable remark to Mr. Ananiev. You didn't have to go into this discussion the same way.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u134	Did you stop him?! Keep insulting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u135	Then we sorted that out.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u136	What does he think if he's in charge, he can say whatever he wants?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u137	Mrs. Kanazireva, please stop here! [[The National Representative Nastimir Ananiev wants the floor.]] Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u138	Mr. Chairman, my personal explanation is for Mrs. Kanazireva's nervous outburst. Everyone has to take their pills when... [[Reference between the President and the Member of the National Assembly.]] Now I will not comment on who is competent and who is not competent because I think most Bulgarian citizens see who is competent and who is not competent. Not only do they see, and in the election they decided who was competent and who wasn't. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u139	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u140	That's not the point. I am very interested in why Mrs. Kanazireva was offended by the term "expert of abuse" because I do not see any negative connotation, but she found one, she seems to have recognized herself in the negative sense of an expert on abuse. Every single investigative authority in charge, the Ministry of Interior, has experts on abuse who can say, "There's something here, something there." She mistook herself, got hysterical and started insulting. So it wasn't for me to be pointed at this whole thing, it was for Mrs. Kanazireva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u141	Thank you. Procedure by Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I see the pointed tone, I do not know if there is much sense in the procedure that I would suggest, but it is a first vote, we cannot end the discussion. But I very much ask the MPs to avoid personal qualifications. Agree, Mr. Chairman, that you go out there and tell one of the MPs that he's so incompetent that he can't offer anything, in other words: You're so stupid, you're so stupid that you don't belong here. That's no way to talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u143	At least it's not elegant, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u144	He's chosen by his constituents. It represents the entire people in fact, each of you here, colleagues. And I remember a poem from my childhood: "Who will say anything, but I am a clever head... " There is a continuation of this poem that knows it. I can continue it on the sidelines, however, that we're here to occupy the fourth power somehow... Here in the morning I do not see him in the hall, my esteemed Mr. Cholakov speaks of consensus to discuss a bill that removes all the outrage that happened in the management of GERB. But all the outrage has happened! Leave the bags with the money. There's been a violation of all principles here. And I remember the hard meeting in the Legal Committee.. here most of the colleagues were not in this National Assembly then, where they discussed the inhouse orders. And now all this is being tried with a reasonable bill... and colleague Zarkov... That's why I'm asking you as an extremely balanced person. [[Applause to the President]] which I admire how the sitting usually leads every time makes mistakes to try, and colleagues from GERB, and other colleagues... We're discussing a bill, its meaning, its philosophy. Some precise things were said, but very few were those who spoke unpolitically. Now with every serious bill coming in, I have the ugly impression that my opposition colleagues, when they put in a bill that solves serious issues, starts some, as people say, pulling from nine wells of water, it compromises completely. And it comes to such a relationship that I regret that I have overdue the time, interrupting the entire relationship in Parliament and in the Parliament. You can't talk to one person like that here from the stands: You are so incompetent that you can't offer anything. And this is a tone coming from GERB...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u145	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u146	...for months now: amateurs, all kinds of amateurs, get the hell out of here, we're the only ones who understand. Guys, we want to have a conversation. You are talking about the parliament that comes from talking, from parlare, but you are not serious and respectfully to colleagues, now you are talking with neglect, as Ilf and Petrov said in a novel: I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, that I'm running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u147	Thank you, Professor. I think the break's coming at a pretty good time. Before I officially announce the break, I will return to my previous words: let's keep the good tone of the conversation. And I'm not just saying this because we're a reflection of what's happening in society, but because we're even setting an example. And if we're insulted here all the time, an opponent to an opponent, somehow we set an example for people to do it, and it's not right. Most of you have children, and they might think they're teaching their children the same thing. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] I'm taking a break till twenty. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u148	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. Mr. Gazhev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House who are still interested in this debate. First of all, remembering how the debate continued before the break and the fixation by importers on the name correct company, I think of a fraud that had a few years ago with some stickers - a correct company - that were sold. I hope it didn't occur to anyone in their head to repeat it on a government level. I'll take charge of both bills. First on the one that was submitted by representatives of the.. We continue the Change........................................... First, I will give you a written answer from the Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev to the MP Ivaylo Mirchev from April 8th, which, by the way, concerns exactly this methodology for indexing prices. What's this about? I think it has become clear here in the debate, this problem is pressing and addressed by all the parliamentary groups and know it, and the government has promised and committed to indexing prices in the various procedures that have been or are taking place to be able to respond to the inflation index, which the government has nevertheless missed out on both price growth and material growth. On 8 April the Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev said that a similar methodology was prepared, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Chamber of Builders of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Managing Authority of the Operational Program. In accordance with all the comments and opinions made during the working meetings, a draft methodology has been prepared which regulates the terms and conditions for indexing the costs of concluded works contracts under the Law on Construction, which is to be approved by the Council of Ministers. That is, on 8 April the methodology was prepared and agreed with the Ministry of Finance. It is now June 9th, two months later, and we are looking at a Law that will assign the Council of Ministers to do a methodology that has been ready for two months. That is, it is obvious that a version of indulgence is simply being sought during a decision of amendments to the Public Procurement Act so that this methodology can be made and the Council of Ministers is not responsible, but apologize for the decisions we will take in the National Assembly. The Report of the Committee on Regional Development says how the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development support the Bill, only by opening their opinions yes, they generally support the Bill, but not entirely, offer its full rewrite. The bill submitted by the MPs itself actually has two paragraphs to amend art. 116, for the creation of para. 4 new and editing of existing para. 4. And Finance Minister Asen Vassilev said in his opinion to the Commission, I quote: I consider that the change of para. 4 of art. 116 is not appropriate insofar as the existing provision reproduces the requirements of art. Art. 72, § 3 of Directive 2014/24 and art. Article 89 (3) of Directive 2014/25. It should be borne in mind that, like the rules on exceptions, the European Commission strictly insists that Member States adhere to the grounds for amending the contracts laid down in the directives. Therefore, we propose that the change be made through the creation of a new art. 116a from the National Assembly. "I mean, what has been tabled by the MPs is not working and they are proposing an amendment that is not contrary to European legislation. This is about methodology, methodology, methodology! However, the Ministry of Finance said that the methodology, as the bill is written, will not be one, but there is a risk of creating many methodologies. Quoting: The proposed methodology is related to the indexing of all public procurement contracts, regardless of their site: construction, supply or services. From the new Al. 4 of art. 116 It is not clear whether the amendment of contracts will be based on a common methodology or whether there will be different options for methodologies depending on the public procurement sites. As far as dynamically changing relations are concerned, this poses a risk of frequent changes in the Rules of Implementation of the Law on Law Enforcement, they are contrary to the Commission's criticism of a lack of sustainability in the Bulgarian legislation in the field, which leads to difficulty in its implementation and a prerequisite for admission of violations. In this regard, we believe that the adoption of a methodology by an act of the Council of Ministers provides a more flexible approach in determining the mechanism for updating the price of the public procurement contracts in force and does not lead to those negatives. In other words, the Ministry of Finance itself tells you that this law is not necessary. This is an opinion signed by Asen Vassilev. In fact, the following paragraphs of the opinion offer a whole new bill to replace the one submitted by the representatives of the In the opinion of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works in resignation are even more critical by proposing not to accept at all the texts proposed by the importers, to make a new bill, because according to them even, notice: "When the contract contains an indexing clause or after the conclusion of the contract there has been a substantial increase, this is the text of the importers, and what Minister Grozdan Karadjov says is that after the contract contains an indexing clause, it can be requisitioned without any problem by the contracting party. The contract allows it, there is absolutely no point in writing in the Law. That's why this whole exercise resembles the mountain and gave birth to a mouse. This old beautiful Bulgarian proverb. Because the problem, honourable Members, is really hurting for public entities - whether it be municipalities or state institutions - because contracts cannot meet them because of inflation, galloping inflation. According to the budget we adopted in February, it should not have exceeded 10%, but is now 14% official according to the budget update. How long is it gonna be till the end of the year, God only knows. So there are obviously a lot of misunderstandings in the bill itself, which are clearly imported on the knee, and you have to work long between the two readings. This is the opinion of the two ministers. So, Mr. President, obviously there will be proposals between the two editorial readings and I hope that if the House adopts this bill, it will eventually comply with these requirements and give a carte blanche to the Council of Ministers to do whatever methodology it wants, which is, by the way, ready for two months and just waiting to be adopted by the Council of Ministers. Why Assen Vassilev or Grozdan Karadzhov didn't bring them in, given that they both worked it, is something the government should respond to. As for the second bill, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, for the annulment of the In House, I can tell them that our colleagues from "Keep the Change" will not support it for one simple reason: they already love In House. All the rhetoric they've been talking for the past year has actually been fake. We continue the Change and their ministers love in house. Do you know which minister loves In House the most? Boyko Rashkov! And I will read to you an official press release of the Council of Ministers from its meeting last week: The government designated the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior to exercise the rights of the state as sole owner of the capital in Frankly, I am not a specialist in commercial law, I hope that someone will be able to explain to me how two people are the sole owner of EOOD, without changing from Ltd. to the smallest, but this legal madness is done for one single purpose: that Boyko Rashkov, as Minister of Interior, may be the principal of the Internship Service, whose only activity is sewing uniforms, does not make the uniforms to be able to run an inhouse order, because obviously he cannot or does not want to do it under the open procedures, which the ZOP allows, and wants to pass in house. So, colleagues, there is no way to support the cancellation of the In House as they already love it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u150	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are there any lines to Hristo Gazhev? I won't. Tsvetan Enchev, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm dealing with both bills. As it became clear, the first movement for rights and freedoms is proposing to remove the inhouse procedures and the so-called framework contracts, which have been listening for a year now to how unacceptable they are to society, what abuses are behind them and what the former rulers have done with these two legal methods. Now is your moment to prove your desire for change. I agree that this procedure is enshrined in a directive, respectively, that they are applied in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, but it is also true that these two methods have become termed for corruption. And your motto, with which you came to power and with which you are ruling the state, is: 'No to corruption'. "As we did with the golden visas, the golden passports, I think now is the time to make the right decision and put an end to these procedures once and for all or to make them as they should be and as you claim to make them. With regard to the second bill with importer Mr. Ananiev and colleagues I think that there really should be work in the direction of indexing. I do not understand why to this day you have not listened to the many requests of the Association of Municipalities, the opinions they gave and what we do for the Bulgarian municipalities. It is clear to everyone that there should be an indexation of contracts. The 15% proposed, according to our parliamentary group and according to society, are extremely insufficient. From the many talks we have with mayors on a daily basis, it became clear that in the small consumer basket prices have dramatically increased and the problems with the patronage care, especially with the warm lunch stand on the agenda of each Bulgarian municipality. Colleagues, do not accept the Bulgarian municipalities as enemy organizations. The mayors are closest to the people and it is extremely important for them to know that they have the support of the state. The way you are now ruling, the Bulgarian mayors do not feel this concern. On the contrary, the month of January you promised them some compensation for electricity, so far they have received nothing. We had to raise the total matching subsidy of municipalities, there were some rates spoken, some reached nothing, some reached 5%. If you think it's easy to take care of the mayors and at the same time not to help them in any way, you are deeply mistaken and this is not going well in any case. Colleagues, now is the time to support our bill and end this vicious practice. With regard to the second one, we support, but we believe that what is proposed for indexing of the contracts is insufficient. Now is the time to help Bulgarian municipalities and Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u152	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Are there any lines to Tsvetan Enchev? I won't. Branimir Balachev for speech. Here you go, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think I'm the last person in the speech group to go first or last so that it can still stay in everyone else's head.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u154	Mladen Shishkov signed up after you, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u155	Yeah, so I'm not the last, I'm the last. At our attention today are presented two projects to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act. The first was submitted by colleagues from the DPS, who actually wanted the elimination of inhouse procedures and the framework agreement. We are at first reading the Law and therefore I will not go into the details of each text separately, although these are related precisely to these two procedures and their removal from the current legislation is required. More as a lawyer, I am provoked by the motives. A moment ago my colleague Enchev said that in society there is an attitude that you see, namely in house procedures and framework agreements are the subject of corruption, that is, it is something bad and if they continue to exist, these harmful phenomena would continue. However, as a person who believes the law and knows that when one thing is claimed, it must be proved in an indisputable and firm way, that is, when it is said that there is corruption in these procedures, I want to see at least a few decisions of the court in which there are public procurements, and there are hundreds in which, when using this procedure, the one or the other, irregularities have been found which have led to the committing of a crime under art. 201 and they're in effect. There aren't any! Note that this and most of all about the highway, which has been indicated by the importers, is actually spoken from 2020. And to this day, with the new minister, who so much loves all and most of all the officials at this time, Mr. Rashkov, a professional, a man with very great experience, so far, except for the blatant allegations of such corruption schemes, we have not heard or seen anything material. The question of money bags is one of those allegations that at this stage do not have any expression in the legal space, so when we talk about these procedures being corrupt, we must have something that actually provokes us MPs to give up in violation of the adopted EU directives, two legal opportunities in the implementation of public procurement. One is, as has been said, about the highway "Hemus" when it is something extremely important, because I am a resident of Northern Bulgaria and I have to tell you that 3.5 million Bulgarians from 1970 to the present day "52 years to today" expect the completion of 400 km highway. That's the way it is. When the government of Mr. Borisov in his previous version, the last option in which he was in power, until March 2021, decided that he should be intensively built, of course, that they were looking for all kinds of opportunities to speed up this process. And who, by you, has, at a municipal, state or whatever level, dealt with the Public Procurement Act and its, unfortunately, extremely slow, in view of the fact that no text of the public procurement itself or anyone has been preferred by the Commission, which is dealing with the contract in question, is moving for years, passing twice the appeals through the Commission and twice the Supreme Administrative Court, it is two years, and these things are absolutely meaningless because either the benefit of the project in question has already expired or, as it is now, I will move on to the second phase, to the other bill which has been submitted by my colleague Ananiev for the amendment of the Law in the part in which it should be updated. I mean, there's hyperinflation, as it is now, military action, fuel appreciation and so on. In my opinion, it will be wrong, not that we are against enhanced control, I have said it to the Commission, I will repeat it here, when it comes to this type of order, but it will be legal to delete with a tire, both inhouse procedures and framework agreements, I believe it is unlawful and most likely if you do, because I personally will not vote for their removal, and on these grounds, which I have just laid out, there will most likely be some penalties, criminal procedures from the European Union, which, in this vexed treasury, which we have spoken about and understood more yesterday, is hardly necessary to load it with unnecessary fines that will be imposed on us. So much for this bill. As far as the other one's concerned. I think the other bill, as they say, is late. And he was late because too many so-called authorities yesterday, because they are no longer so today, wondering in what way to actually move on to this update, which is obviously necessary. It is necessary because according to art. 116, honourable Members, we do have a ban on updating public procurement already once. This is the case, and if there are to be amendments, then the amendments must be precisely in this part of it. The amendments must be in art. 116, para. 1, t. 3, where we can further develop and enable these contracts, these public contracts, which, due to force majeure, have fallen into a state where the prices that have been negotiated, and perhaps they have gone through this procedure that I have told you about, the two-year contract, with an appeal against the various candidates, and so on, have become obsolete and that these contracts should be updated. Whether they are international or whether they are in the order of the European programmes or are orders which the contracting entity itself, the State or the municipality itself gives for one reason or another. In this regard, I would like to say something that is very important. We are talking here that you see, we need to make sure that we stop corruption on these orders and so on, because there the prices were very high and so forth. We said that once when we discussed each other's case. The fact that we, Parliament, have become party to a road repair contract and I will repeat it again: if someone claims that a contract is insignificant or price increases, as the lawyers say there is a breach of good manners, he must have the courage to file a case in court, declare the contract null and all that is done must remain at the expense of the state. Accordingly, to pay all other fines, so that is not the stumbling block. The stumbling block is for us to enable these contracts to be updated in the face of force majeure and our position, which is different from what my colleague Ananiev brought in here, whether he is or someone else wrote it, so we say that in order not to speculate with anything at all, about who to whom and which firm is good and who is not good, who is good and who is not correct, everything that should be about the update of these contracts, because, for example, Varna is waiting for a 150 million contract, because the prices are already other and the performer himself who is ready says: I will not make a hole, because at these prices I cannot cover not only the costs, but I have to give 20 million more. Our proposal we will do it between first and second readings, if we accept this proposal at first reading at any time, is to amend art. 116, para. 1, t. 3, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we will make sure that all things that are necessary do not interfere or as little interference as possible. The creation of a legislative act, such as the Decree of the Council of Ministers, is a unilateral act, remember this thing there is no opposition and can be amended at any time because it is issued on the basis of the Transitional and Final Provisions which adopt this. So we want it to be mentioned in the Law: yes, under these circumstances there is, there can be an amendment, it can be in these and these frames and so on, and not allow us to share them again by our own and yours, by better and worse, by more blond and more black-haired and so on and so forth. So also in this part, if accepted, we will make a real proposal to amend the Law and not create a regulation. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u156	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Are there any lines to Branimir Balachev? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Balachev, in the short time that I have for a reply, I will only refer to the first part of your speech about the inhouse procedures. It is true that they are regulated in European legislation and must also exist in Bulgarian legislation. This is the reason why we will not support the DPS Bill. Why are they regulated in European legislation? Because the idea is very simple, very clear and cost-effective. When you have holding structures, economic communities, and when they can perform certain tasks themselves and not go through the normal public procurement procedure, but to assign the sister structure to be able to do it, that is the principle. However, this principle met the Bulgarian practice. In the Bulgarian practice it was so that the holding entrusted to a company that had no opportunity to carry out the activity so that it could give subcontractors who would actually carry out the activity and take the money without going through the public procurement procedure. This is the typical way to distort the idea of the Law. And you're looking for judgmental decisions, well, there can be no judgmental decisions, as this thing is legal. You say that people thought and we call it corruption, well, it's corrupt, because what prevents these companies from going to auction or public procurement and winning it. I guess there's something. This corruption developed all the time at different levels and if the first gave a bribe, and the second gave a bribe, and the third gave a bribe.. the latter stole from the asphalt. That's why the roads are in this place where you see them. This has been happening, and I can give you examples. Someone mentioned the "automistries," the importers of the bill, but what about the "Montages," what about the others? Those hats that were involved in bypassing the Public Procurement Act. At the same time, it is really just the deletion of the In House procedures is neither correct nor legally possible because of the regulation that exists, so there is a solution. This decision will soon be tabled as a Bill, as far as I know it is ready, and we at BSP have imported it not once or twice over the years, namely in house procedure is only possible when the company, which will benefit from it sufficiently, ensures that it can itself and not through subcontractors perform its commission. For example, if he's going to build a highway, there's enough excavators, expertise, people, if he's going to do another dam. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u158	Last sentence, Mr. Chairman, I apologize. This speed for the construction you are talking about, this speed for which we do not comply with the laws for which we do not comply with public procurements, this is a false speed, because these roads that are built in this way are only for selfie of the one who made them. Those who drive on them, the second week starts to shake, and the third week there is repair and repair of the repair and in house procedure and so we find ourselves in the situation we are in today. That's why it has to end.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u159	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Balachev, I would like to ask you to discuss two issues regarding your speech and regarding the two topics developed by you. First, for In House. I don't know if you'll share the view that colleagues from the House of Rights and Freedoms sometimes like to joke and provoke people's representation. Mr. Karadaye, one was, if I'm not mistaken, about the zero-lev subsidy for the parties you proposed then, to see what our brains are and what we're going to do. At the moment, I think they suggest that we simply eliminate the inhouse procedures that so interfere with the new majority. If I understand correctly, not for anything else, but for the majority to come out and say that we can actually not without in house procedures, admit that the in house procedure is neither illegal nor wicked nor nothing. I am tempted, as we will joke, to recommend that we support the removal of the In House procedures to see what the Road Infrastructure Agency will do next and what the Regional Ministry will do, because that is the purpose of the change. The majority will come out and admit it was wrong. My question is whether you would share such an approach to remove the inhouse procedure and see what happens, because I agree that when someone talks a lot, they have to bear the consequences of talking. When someone accuses entire procedures and wants to remove them. Let's remove them and see what they do next. I see here an ambiguity on which I will ask you to also pay attention. The Yin House procedures were bad because the contractor to whom the State entrusts, and it is a state-owned company that makes subcontractors when it is not only possible for it to perform the contract, in the second part of the proposal of the colleagues from "We are continuing the Change" we must assume that the State will pay whenever it is possible in both cases where possible and in the other case where possible. Now my question is: are we going to do everything whenever possible, when it's at the pleasure of the administration, or will there be some principles? I refer directly to Mr. Zarkov as well. And the third thing I want to ask. I've been bombed by my friends from before by professors of administrative law and they say to me, please, take a look. I don't feel very competent, but the question they're asking is: aren't the contracts we're talking about contracts under the DPA and not administrative contracts, so that's where the state can't unilaterally intervent? Everything happens with negotiation between the two sides, which are equal. If the contracts are civil contracts under the DPA and not administrative, shouldn't the public body contracting freely negotiate with the contractors settle these issues with price increases and not engage again with the public representation to do its work and remain with the feeling that we may be breaking the Law somewhere? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u161	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Is there a third line? There's no third line. Here you are, Mr. Balachev, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u162	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! In fact, two groups of questions were raised about my speech. The first is from Mr. Zarkov on the fact that you see, you should only use the inhouse procedure when the state holding company in question has assets of about 1 billion s and a half, because to build a highway, to have so many rollers, diggers, heavy trucks and so on, you should have this financial resource, which obviously if we accept something like a scheme, it means that it will never be implemented. On the contrary, most public procurements, by the way, involve consortiums, i.e. different commercial companies, which have different potential in a different part in the implementation of such a public procurement. So it is quite normal, and by the way, in the In House procedures the state, because these are state-owned holdings, should still have the opportunity to do some control over the spending of these funds, because it signs concession contracts and in them regulates who should do what, at what prices and at what deadlines. So to limit and say that the holding company, i.e. the state can assign such an order to itself and narrow the perimeter, so from now on, it's like saying that this can't work. In this regard, Mr. Cholakov, you are absolutely right. We could experiment and I would be willing, by the way, to support their proposal to remove the In House procedures if there was a chance that this government would continue. But it won't last. Today we will end it until it is in effect and until we publish the Law, there will be none, Mr. Karadayi, and there will be no government. I mean, what are we doing it for? So I'm willing, we could see what they would do, see the ZOP, open this law, see what it's all about, and so on, and see their shit, as they say, I apologize for the language. As regards whether they are civil or administrative contracts, the question is indeed a bit controversial. It is disputed because at the heart of these contracts, in general for the contract, is based on two basic laws of the Law on Obligations and Contracts, and in one part in the Commercial Law. The bad news is that the Public Procurement Act is a special law in relation to certain contracts and there are certain restrictions that should be used anyway. Therefore, I also suggested changing this possibility, for example, that once the contract was signed, it could not be extended, that is, prices cannot be changed, that is why this text is actually the stumbling block at the present time. If we change and allow already under certain conditions, in the presence of force majeure, to change these things, we come to this. But this thing must happen with the power of the Law, not with the Regulation. Whether it's Grozdan Karadjov today, as we've seen, or if it's the next one, the next one, it doesn't matter. The basic framework on which... that is, we have to save the opportunity of ours, yours and so on and so forth. As far as this is concerned, there is no way in one law: "Well, if I want to pay you, I can't pay you if I want to, I can't pay you. " Once you've made the commitment, if there are force majeure circumstances, there is an increase in this production, or there will have to be termination without sanctions, that is to say, looking for a new person to complete it, but he will not complete it at these prices, or you will have to take that risk once you are a contracting entity and pay the amount that is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u163	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Mladen Shishkov is listed for speaking. There's no one else listed after Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My speech on the bill proposed by my colleague Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, this bill, colleagues, is extremely necessary but infinitely late. Infinitely late by maybe more than a year. The bigger problem with this bill is that there is no political consensus on it, obviously. And an even bigger problem is that there probably won't be one, given yesterday's events, unfortunately. Several, however, are the main vices in this bill, which were discussed in the course of the discussion by colleagues. I will focus on perhaps the most important, namely this announced 15% limit for indexing public procurement contracts. According to this methodology, which has been published, it is not quite clear where this number is taken 15, but I would like to provide some statistics on construction materials to make it clear to colleagues and experts who intend to prepare this methodology, what is the actual situation at the moment. Prices of basic building materials. Bricks fours - June 2021 '63 pennies, June 2022 BGN 1.05 66%. Armatage "June 2021" - BGN 1,57, June 2022 2.30 lv. 46% increase. Construction steel from 1,50 to 2,90'93 per cent increase. Timber, coworkers - 350 BGN 2021, 720 BGN In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may Cement - BGN 110 Ton 2021, BGN 150 The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. It's a 36% increase. And by the way, during the meeting of the Regional Commission this week, Minister Karadjov mentioned that there was no significant increase in in inert materials, which is definitely false and I would like to refer again to the experts of the Ministry to pay attention to this issue, because, colleagues, with the sand, there was a very big problem this year. It's a very big problem. And the sand of 8 leva. per tonne is currently 14 leva. ton, with a low price at the moment, which makes an 85% increase. And of course, the lowest increase is the felt, which from 10.50 is 12.50, which is 19%, this is the lowest increase, higher than the indexation of 15%. Of course, the work we all know has risen by no less than 30%. The same applies to the mechanization that rose because of the high costs of fuel. So, colleagues, when you prepare this regulation, please comply with this data, they are real. Otherwise, what you're going to do as indexing is just pointless and will not work. And on the second point, I see that there is still a little time, at the second point, which I would like to address, what is written in the analysis of benefits and costs, that changing legislation will not result in a direct and indirect impact on the state budget, which is absurd. We are talking about an indexation that is at least 15%, but there will be no indirect impact on the state budget. This money from where it's going to come is absolutely not clear. They are not included in the so-called budget project, the update. And the biggest problem, fellow Members, is that the most affected by this increase in construction materials and activities are municipalities. There's not a word for them. There's no word! Nobody tells me where the money's coming from. And speaking from representatives of the National Association of Municipalities, it becomes clear that if this methodology is adopted, it will take at least 1 billion additional to municipal budgets. This money from where it's coming from is unclear. So, colleagues, please pay attention, quite seriously, to these issues, because otherwise this bill, if it passes, will be another dust in the eyes of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u165	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Are there any lines to Mladen Shishkov? Here you go, Mrs. Kirova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Shishkov, what concerns me in the proposed Draft Law amending the Public Procurement Act is the subjective factor that we all need to realize that we should avoid when changing legislation. Because otherwise where does that stability of the laws and regulations that we adopt go that will enable us to develop as a country with rules? And in that sense, I was worried about what was said here by pre-speakers who were talking about correct companies. Who will decide which companies are correct and who are not, provided that there are companies who have fulfilled their obligations, invoiced and acted what they have done, have issued certificates. Which ones are correct and which ones aren't? I also heard a talk about higher prices. And in this regard, I have a specific question... so far how many contracts have been found to have increased prices? One, two, three, two hundred, three hundred? How many contracts are there and can I be specifically referred to a contract on which there are increased prices? Finally, the budget shows, in fact, the government's governance policy and their view of those who manage the state, how they will develop us from here on as a society. Is there money in the budget for these indices, not just for municipalities, but for all other contracts? I think that to this question, if we give ourselves an answer, we will understand that the vote on such a bill, i.e. the proposed amendment bill, is actually hypocrisy because it is not funded. Otherwise, there has to be an indexation and it's infinitely late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Second line to Mladen Shishkov? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kirova, you do have reason to be concerned about the issues you have raised, because it seems that six months later we have not been freed from that political talk, which is characteristic of an election situation, and as if the colleagues had predicted that new elections were coming and so they continued with this empty talk, which turned out to be absolutely pointless. Indeed, this bill, if it is not funded, will remain meaningless, it will not have its legal scope. As far as higher prices are concerned, there's only one sentence I'm going to say. Let colleagues take a look at the current prices at which the new public contracts of the Regional Ministry, for example, have been published. Look at them and then talk about increased prices, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u169	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Will there be any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u170	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for reminding me, as the Law is at first reading, we are talking about the policies of the respective laws, so let us make a general statement on policy and policy by the current government. Firstly, I would like to thank the importers of the second bill, which was tabled only about a month ago by Mr. Ananiev and a group of MPs for submitting this bill, so that today the bill submitted by us can be considered and the bill submitted by us as early as January. Otherwise we wouldn't be able to look at it. We will support the proposed bill by Mr. Ananiev, and from now on we state that between first and second readings we will try to make improvements in the proposed texts through proposals for changes between first and second readings. As far as the bill that we have tabled is concerned, I would like to address very seriously the MPs for the lies that are spoken by politicians in an election situation, for the lies when spoken on behalf of political opponents and when it comes time for these same politicians to look at themselves in their mirror, they see something else. That was the idea of this bill, too, but he's not the only one. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have said that we will try to expose all the lies, regardless of where they come from and on what subject they are, and lies are best exposed by clarifying the actual picture or by changing the respective laws that concern the themes on which they are lied. This was also the topic, because the election campaign of the now ruling mine under the motto "Nuleva tolerance of corruption" with the main argument and the specific for the inhouse procedures. They even stopped the funds provided for the construction and maintenance of road infrastructure. I would just like to remind you that this is not something new in Bulgarian politics. In 2009, there were some rulers who had the same mantra to fight corruption, and all that happened before them was corruption and they will fight corruption. However, they did the same thing we witnessed in 2021. The funds and money stopped the public investment procedures already carried out, nearly 1 billion then, and now about 1 billion and a little more, that is, as political behaviour is nothing different. We have been talking about change throughout this period since 2009 and now has come to power. However, the self-named "Change" came to power, which, if it is a change, is a change from bad to worse, not to improvement, because we understand that a procedure or a deal is corrupt for them if Kiril Petkov, Asen Vassilev or Boyko Rashkov does not participate in it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u171	Mr. Karadaye, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u172	The same was true in 2009. It was all corruption if Boyko Borisov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Iskra Fidosova and some others...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u173	Mr. Karadayi, on the philosophy of billing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u174	It is about the philosophy of the Bill and the manner of policy in the state that we are talking, Mr. Chairman. You invited me to the stand. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u175	You took so many notes during the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u176	Yes, I was just taking notes about the discussion and took occasion from the previous speakers, because yesterday and today, colleagues, we listened again to the same clichés about corruption, fighting corruption and a potential risk of corruption, only corruption is where there is power. And today, when Kiril Petkov, Asen Vassilev and Boyko Rashkov talk about corruption, the potential, the highest risk of corruption is with them. They're in power today! Corruption has a place where there is power, but clichés continue to address even those who have not been in power for 12 years, and they are accused of corruption. That's not how it's gonna work out. At the moment, however, pay attention to how the same clichés are spoken. Until yesterday the cabinet was not corrupted, however, since yesterday afternoon and this morning the ministers proposed by IHN, who resigned, turned out to be the corrupt ministers, and they, on the other hand, pointing out facts in the public space, documents and protocols, no longer need to be paid attention to the facts there. Therefore, honourable Members, as we have said, we will expose the lies and try to restore normality to Bulgarian politics, normality in the National Assembly in Bulgaria by exposing the lies, we will continue to do so and this bill is a clear example of this. The In House procedures were corrupt when they were not done by Asen Vassilev, Kiril Petkov and Boyko Rashkov and when it comes their turn to bear responsibility for certain activities in the country, these are no longer corruption transactions. It was the same for the gold passports. He was lying to an allangro quote, from everywhere and at some point when a bill is being proposed, but wait now, what happened? In the end, it turned out that those who put labels on the corruption of their political opponents found themselves in the scheme for the gold passports and pulled one of their colleagues from the spotlight, thinking that by leaving him at the BBI and making him an advisor, it is not visible from the people that he did not get out of power. This was the case with the BBI and some lies were spilled by the Minister of Economy Kiril Petkov, but his signature sits in a document which is on the website of the National Assembly that he lied in the public space. It was the same for the gas lines, by the way. Congratulations and thank you, colleagues, that today we have decided to have a temporary committee to examine all the facts and circumstances, because only the truth can expose the lies that are spreading today. Therefore, my appeal to you, Members of Parliament, is: if you have been sincere in your election campaign, that the inhouse procedures are a corrupt scheme, it would be appropriate to support the amendments to the Law proposed by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. On the contrary, if you do not support these proposals that we have made to remove the inhouse procedures, I would ask you to go out to the Bulgarian citizens and apologize to them for lying to them so far from all 2021 during election campaigns, including until now. The truth is coming out today! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u177	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Are there any lines? Peter Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Karadayi, I would like to take only the beginning of your speech, where you thanked the ruling coalition that it is good that they have put a bill into the same Public Procurement Act so that they can examine yours from January. To ask you and to answer me: how to get the ruling coalition to submit another bill for amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, so that the first bill submitted by MPs to the Forty-Seventh National Assembly on 7 December 2021 is in violation of art. 72, para. 3 of the Houses have not yet reached the plenary. Your fellow party member Hamid explained a short time ago how you were forced as opposition to use the fact that the ruling coalition submitted a bill under one law, so that you would also submit a bill in the same law, to tell you that the laws of the rest of the opposition in the face of AGE are also not considered. I'm a MP with very little experience and less experience than you, but let me tell you, we've taken another opportunity. When the ruling coalition or the Council of Ministers introduces a bill, between first and second reading we make changes, we are forced to make changes so that these changes of ours can be viewed, so to speak, in the fast track where the laws imported by the ruling coalition and the Council of Ministers pass. Dear Mr. Karadayi, in connection with your speech, I would ask you to share in your duplicate about such young MPs with less experience as we and others, the way, as representatives of the opposition, so that this parliamentaryism can go not only driven mainly by the ruling coalition and without opposition in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u179	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Any other lines to Mustafa Karadaye? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u180	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Petrov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is a very difficult answer to your question, because when we talk about the rule of law or the rule of law, we usually have to set a personal example ourselves with our conduct and with our actions. However, here is the exact opposite of the violations of the Constitution, violations of the laws of the country, violations of the Rules of Organization and the activities of the National Assembly for edification speak to their political opponents about the rule of law and law, and point fingers. However, they themselves, violating the Constitution, laws and regulations, think that they are allowed anything. By the way, this has been the case for the past 12 years, and it hasn't changed, it's not new. It is high time for something new to happen in a good, positive direction to have normality in politics, to restore democracy, the rule of law, to restore normality in politics, so that we can start restoring statehood in our country, and it starts here, from this room, and that is why my answer is difficult. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u181	Are there any other speeches? Mr. Cholakov, 20 seconds has your group. Okay, you've got a few seconds of me, no problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We are facing two issues: one is to support the joke of the DPS and the other is to support the illegal proposal of Nastimir Ananiev. Choose!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u183	Okay, well, it's quite the line. Here you go, Mr. Bikov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Cholakov, I hope you can explain what you meant, because at least I couldn't understand either the joke of the DPS or the illegal proposal of Mr. Ananiev, although I believe your words that both of them are true.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u185	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. For a second line, Mustafa Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Cholakov, this is no joke at all fighting corruption and the rule of law, and we do not take it as a joke. But something else is not a joke to us at all, that we say self-called "Change" and that this "Change" has to go away to have normality in politics is also not a joke. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u187	Thank you. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u188	Mr. Bikov, you will allow me to respond to Mr. Karadayi. Dear Mr. Karadaye, you're absolutely right. It's the same for us. Colleagues, we started to ask ourselves: what are we really doing in this room, in the sense of today? We are having a business discussion on some constructive proposals or unconstructive ones, and we act as if nothing happened today. You do understand that there is no government, there is no ruling majority? The bills that this majority is putting in place, I do not think that this National Assembly is ready to adopt. They were disrespectful. They couldn't expect anything to happen. They didn't want to work with consensus. There would be no consensus across the street. I mean, what do we keep doing with these people, Mr. Karadayi, and all the other colleagues? And since we're entering another phase of political life in the country, this is over, I think no one has any doubt, this phase is over. Kiril Petkov's government is history. I think that in this phase, which lies ahead of us at all political powers, because we are responsible to the state, not to our emotions, not to our addictions, we can exchange jokes and banter, but I am convinced that we are all responsible people here. I want to say something that I want everyone to hear. Several times it happened to my colleagues from.. to say, the old parties who practiced here mercilessly on GERB, to tell them: colleagues, you will not be moral winners. I won't. There will be no moral winner in this mud. No one imagines that they can throw all the sins of the entire transition over one political power and all come out clean. That's not gonna happen! I won't let that happen. Me! I'm not talking about my colleagues. [[Reply from.. Continue Change.......................................................................................................]] Yeah. Yeah, I mean, I'll do what's up to me if you want to work in that direction. If you dig through it, you know the poem, if you dig it up, it'll smell and it'll burn like poison. [[(Noise and lines from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev:]] Colleagues, I really call for a little more tolerance, for a little more respect that we have missed over the last two years, because, again, after the phase that is ahead of us, once again, the political forces will be here, once again, we will have to build bridges, we will have to talk again, and it is better to really keep the good tone and stop someone trying to become a moral winner on the back of others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u189	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Here you go. Declaration on behalf of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, to some extent what I will say in a moment, is also a continuation of the words of colleague Rado Cholakov. Today is a special day, it is exactly 99 years since the coup on June 9, 1923. This is a special date which crowned a period that began in 1918 and accompanied nearly 100 years of public life in Bulgaria, namely the period of political hatred and political violence. It was preceded by the Soldier Uprising, preceded by the sadly famous Beetmaker Congress in Tarnovo, preceded by arrests, beards and opposition moustache, detention of political leaders without sentence and without imprisonment. Without June 9th, there wouldn't be May 19, there wouldn't be September 9th. This is the emancipation of the started white and red terror, the bloodiest martenitsa in Bulgarian history. More than 100,000 are the direct victims of political terror all this time. And what lesson can we learn today, recalling this date? She's obvious to me. When the language of hatred enters politics, it very easily goes into the street. Very easily our political battles here turn into battles on the street and become real terror. Then there's no going back. Then there is blood for blood, tooth for tooth, eye for eye and so for more than 100 years we have been swinging in this cradle, which costs the lives of just as many Bulgarians, as we have given on the fronts of the wars in which Bulgaria participates, and what Bulgarians do not order them. "Herbst, Geo Milev, many are, Trifon Kunev. Maybe we can look for an ironic parallel today. For example, in 1923, the Bulgarian Communist Party (Bulgarian Communist Party) narrow socialists on the occasion of the Ninth-June coup said it was a settlement between the rural and urban bourgeoisies and they would not interfere. To some extent today we could decide that the relations between Kiril Petkov and Slavi Trifonov are a settlement of the relations between the rural and urban bourgeoisies, and also to remain uncomfortable with what is happening. Yes, this is the ironic reading, but there are also non-ironic readings, colleagues, and the irrational reading is the experience of the Bulgarian law - Magnitski, which leaked in the media - it is political violence. The irrational reading is the idea that one person, Mr. Rashkov, with a proven chase towards police, should be proposed as the Commission chief, who will investigate corruption, which, by the way, has two case files for his, that is, we propose to lead the Commission a person that this committee is considering. This should be a small sign.. right today, on June 9, 99 years later, to be more careful in the words, more careful in the intentions and not repeat the mistakes of our grandfathers, because yes, children pay for the sins of their parents and there is no one else to pay. Thank you for your attention. God save Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u191	Procedure? For a statement on the bill? [[Reply.]] Declaration, I apologize. Here you are, Professor, for a declaration on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the end of this rather strange debate, we allow ourselves, on behalf of the BSP parliamentary group, to call all parliamentary forces to serious reflection on the meaning of our existence from here on, to constructiveness and to something that has eluded us already the last days. And I am extremely surprised, as a member of the parliamentary group, and this is what we share with each other that in an attempt to make a cry for one has not yet begun, we quote Vaptsarov, Geo Milev, Rumyantsev, people who wear the halo of ideology, which you hate and which you have put, and kicked here for years, appeared from the stand, called us thugs when you cut heads. [[(Applause and cheering:]] [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] All this we have tried not you, I say conditional, Mr. Bikov, we speak conditionally [[noise and lines]] , constant accusations of inability to understand what the interests of the nation are, and constant obstacles are being made, honourable Members, for months in the work of the highest authority of the state. Units of us have tried here, from this tribune, to be pragmatic, even today, in all the bills, in all the decisions that have been made today, and yesterday, and to give the professional, spiritual, truly constructive tone. But there were others who carried the burden of one responsibility. I remember something now because we talk a lot about digitalization for years, and they didn't take this responsibility as a responsibility to their country and they showed up here, and they keep talking about all kinds of issues, about morality. Let's say here I am very delighted by Dilov's words, yes, some dates must be remembered, but we remember well who did the coup on June 9th, what happened two years later. [[Noise and lines.]] We remember. We remember people being burned and the one you quoted was shot in a tunnel where you were ashamed to go and never set foot. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And all of this requires a big question, which raised my esteemed Lyuben Dilov, the question of reconciliation of the nation, the question of the constructiveness of the nation, which we are now trying to put to you, which other colleagues put to you, by other parliamentary groups, who do not treat you and all of us here with such disrespect, with such irony, putting on their breasts the sign "Expert" and calling the other profans. That's what I'm praying for. [[Heckling]] I won't argue, Associate Professor Ivanov, with you, you didn't have much time today in the Chamber, so you may have missed some of the definitions that happened here. But we allow ourselves to pay attention as a parliamentary group to the serious moment that the nation is going through, to the attempt of some of us here again to throw not bridges between us, but to burn everything that is called parliamentaryism. To want to leave at the moment in early elections, to overthrow a government, to a total degradation of the state that will not bring it to any good. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] That's wrong...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u193	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u194	... ridiculously and in no case does any of us any honor. Our request is, I turn to you, with all my open heart, let us here, from this tribune, not to throw disgusting accusations, with bad qualifications, to look at everything that is being discussed here, rationality, and not what will stop the development of one or another problem that Parliament will solve, because those people that you quoted here just tried to do it and gave their lives for this many decades before us. Somehow the atmosphere we're creating here, I'm not saying about all of us, but not a little of us, is not worthy of their memory at all. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u195	Thank you, Professor. On the discussion on the two bills amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, are there any last ones willing to speak? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Honourable Members, I put to the vote a bill amending the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-5, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karadayi and a group of MPs, the first vote on the Law submitted by Mustafa Karaday and a group of MPs. They voted 143 MPs: 27, against 62, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next bill: Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Public Procurement Act, No 47-254-01-53, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. They voted 183 MPs: for 71, against 67, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u196	REPLICA: Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u197	We're going over the bill. Vote 197 MPs: 96, against 69, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. That's what we've done with the theme ZOP. Moving on to the next point of the program: LAW PROJECT FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA ON THE TERMINATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA ON THE EMPLOYMENT AND PROTECTION OF THE DEVELOPMENTS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 22 JANUARY 1997 IN SOFIA Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to present the Economic Policy and Innovation Committee Report. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet! We still have 25 minutes left in the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u198	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the termination of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the mutual promotion and protection of investments signed on 22 January 1997 in Sofia, No 47-202-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. At its regular meeting held on 25 May 2022, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the termination of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the mutual promotion and protection of investments signed on 22 January 1997 in Sofia. The bill was presented by Dimitar Danchev "Deputy Minister of Economy and Industry." [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u199	Mr. Dimitrov, wait a minute. Guys, can I have a little quiet please?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u200	After the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Commission launched an initiative to end bilateral investment treaties. The Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that arbitration clauses in international treaties for the protection of foreign investment between Member States are contrary to art. Art. 267, Art. 344 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on ratification of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 7 October 2020. Several Member States, among which Austria, do not sign the multilateral agreement, but declare their readiness to proceed to bilateral termination of their investment contracts if there are such contracts with the other Member States. The technical work on the preparation of the draft Agreement between Bulgaria and Austria on the termination of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the mutual promotion and protection of investments signed on 22 January 1997 in Sofia began in August 2020 on the basis of a project provided by the Austrian side. The technical coordination process was concluded in June 2021 with the negotiation of the Draft Agreement ending the Bilateral Investment Contract concluded in 1997; it is also terminated. 12 (3) of the Treaty, which extends the protection of investments made before the date of termination of the contract for a further period of time. Thus, Article 12 (3) of the Treaty will not give rise to any legal effect following the entry into force of the Termination Agreement. The Agreement on the termination of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the mutual promotion and protection of investments was signed in Brussels on 10 December 2021 by the permanent representatives of the two countries to the European Union. Austria has completed its internal approval procedures for the termination agreement. In Bulgaria the legal requirements provide for subsequent ratification of the Agreement for termination by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. It will enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date on which Bulgaria notified Austria of the completion of the national procedure. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: for 16 MPs, without objection and abstention. On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the termination of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the mutual promotion and protection of investments signed on 22 January 1997 in Sofia, No 47-202-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u201	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. There has also been a report from the Commission on European Union matters. Denitsa Simeonova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u202	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the termination of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the mutual promotion and protection of investments signed on 22 January 1997 in Sofia, No 47-202-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. At its regular meeting held on 26 May 2022, the European Union Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the termination of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments, signed on 22 January 1997 in Sofia, No 47-202-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. The bill was presented by Mr. Dimitar Danchev "Deputy Minister of Economy and Industry." The Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the termination of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the mutual promotion and protection of investments was signed in Brussels on 10 December 2021 by the permanent representatives of the two countries to the European Union. It is part of the process of termination of investment contracts between EU Member States and is in line with the longstanding position of the European Commission that bilateral investment contracts concluded between EU Member States overlap and conflict with Union legislation as they discriminate against investors in the EU on the basis of nationality. With regard to a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union that the arbitration clauses in bilateral investment contracts are contrary to art. Art. 267, Art. 344 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Member States of the EU, and the European Commission have strengthened discussions on their termination and some Member States have suspended them bilaterally or unilaterally. As a result of the joint work between the Commission and the EU Member States, a multilateral agreement between 23 EU Member States was signed in Brussels on 5 May 2020, with which the participating States agreed to terminate their bilateral investment contracts. The Law on ratification of the Multilateral Agreement was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 7 October 2020. Austria is one of the EU Member States, together with Sweden, the United Kingdom, Finland and Ireland, which did not sign the multilateral agreement. This forced the termination of the Treaty between Bulgaria and Austria for mutual promotion and protection of investments to take place by signing a bilateral agreement. Austria has notified Bulgaria that it has completed its internal approval procedures for the Agreement. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Union Affairs proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the termination of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on mutual promotion and protection of investments signed on 22 January 1997 in Sofia, No 47-202-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Anyone who wants to make a statement? There aren't any people who want to make a statement. I'm calling off the discussion. My fellow Members, I am voting on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the termination of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the mutual promotion and protection of investments signed on 22 January 1997 in Sofia, No 47-202-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. The first vote of the Bill. Vote 107 MPs: for 104, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u204	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the termination of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments, signed on 22 January 1997 in Sofia, No 47-202-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022, be adopted at second reading as no proposals for amendments and additions to the Draft were made during the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u205	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Is there a reverse opinion? There's no reverse opinion. I would like to put the procedural proposal to a vote to consider ratification and a second vote. They voted 106 MPs: for 101, against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u206	Project! LAW on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the termination of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the mutual promotion and protection of investments signed on 22 January 1997 in Sofia A single member. Ratifying the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria signed in Brussels on 10 December 2021 on the termination of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the mutual promotion and protection of investments signed on 22 January 1997 in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u207	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I am opening a discussion on the name of the Bill and a single member. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. We vote on the name of the Bill and the only member of it, as read by the President of the Economic Commission. Voting mode. We vote 'em enbloc. They voted 105 MPs: 100, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. With this, the bill was passed in a second vote. We've run out of this item on the agenda as well. Let's move on to the next one: LAW PROJECT FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT FOR THE COONOMIC OVERVIEW OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA BETWEEN BULGARIA, OF THE ONE COUNTRY, AND THE ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION OF ANOTHER COUNTRY. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Sabrutev, come in. Ah, clearance procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to do a clearance procedure. On the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Council of Ministers to vote in the Chamber to allow the following persons to be admitted: Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Zvezdelina Zhelyazkova, State Expert at the Economic and Financial Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u209	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs. Velkova and Mrs. Zhelyazkova's procedural proposal for admission. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite Mrs. Velkova and Mrs. Zhelyazkova to the hall. A report came in from the Budget and Finance Committee. Mr. Sabrutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the Economic Review of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, of the other part, No 47-202-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 March 2022. At a meeting held on 26 May 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance Ivaylo Yaydzhiev Deputy Minister, and Zvetlina Zhelyazkova State Expert in the Economic and Financial Policy Directorate of the Ministry of Finance. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance. The preparation of our country's economic review is a mandatory step along the path of the Republic of Bulgaria's accession to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The aim of OECD reviews is to establish the state of the economy, the financial system and policies in the various fields within which States wishing to join the OECD should demonstrate that they adhere to the Organisation's general principles. Under the OECD Agreement, an Economic Review will be carried out, which will also take into account the progress of the recommendations in the OECD Report of 2021. It will also continue to prepare economic analyses and forecasts for Bulgaria for the period of operation of the Agreement, which will be published in its editions "Economic Perspectives" and "To Growth." The Agreement was concluded by Exchange of Letters between the two Parties. The activities that the OECD will perform for the benefit of the Republic of Bulgaria under the Agreement are worth BGN 1 564 664. (EUR 800,000) and cover the period from 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2023. In connection with the Framework Agreement on the Posting of Employees between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the OECD Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, as ratified in February 2021, propose that an employee of the Ministry of Finance be posted for a period of one year. The employee will support the work of the team in the Bulgarian Bureau of Review. The funds of BGN 1 564 664 (EUR 800,000) is for the implementation of the review and those of BGN 58 800 needed for the posting of an expert for one year are planned under the budget of the Ministry of Finance for 2022, which does not lead to an impact on the state budget. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Given that the Agreement implies financial commitments for the Bulgarian side, it contains a clause for arbitration settlement of possible disputes under the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the same is subject to ratification by law of the National Assembly. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held, which received the following results: 14 votes for, without objection and abstention. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Economic Review of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, of the other part, No 47-202-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u211	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. There has also been a report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u212	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the Economic Review of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, of the other part, No 47-202-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 March 2022. At its regular meeting held on 23 March 2022, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Economic Review of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, of the other part. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Finance Ivaylo Yaydzhiev. The Economic Review Agreement was concluded by Exchange of Letters between the two Parties. The activities that the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development will carry out in favour of the Republic of Bulgaria under the Agreement are worth BGN 1 564 664. (EUR 800,000) and cover the period from 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2023. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development will carry out an economic review within the framework of the Agreement, which will also take into account progress on the recommendations of the 2021 Report. Joining the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development is an important priority of our country's foreign policy and in this regard the Republic of Bulgaria is carrying out enhanced cooperation in different directions, summarised in the roadmap for the actions of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with the accession to the OECD in the period 2021. The preparation of an economic review is a mandatory step. The aim is to establish the state of the economy, the financial system and policies in the various fields within which States wishing to join the OECD should demonstrate that they adhere to the Organisation's general principles. In connection with the Framework Agreement on the Posting of Employees between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, as ratified in February 2021, a member of the Ministry of Finance is proposed to be posted for a period of one year. The employee will support the work of the team in the Bulgarian Bureau of Review. The funds for carrying out the review and those necessary for the posting of an expert for one year of 58 800 BGN are planned under the budget of the Ministry of Finance for 2022. Given that the Agreement implies financial commitments to the Bulgarian side and contains a clause for arbitration settlement of possible disputes under the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is subject to ratification by law. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: for 16, without objection and abstention 1 MP. On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Economic Review of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, of the other part, No 47-202-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-09.u213	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Borislav Antonov, for a statement? Cut. Mr. Antonov, I'll sign you up, but you'll have your statement tomorrow then. We'll continue the discussion tomorrow, due to the passing of time. Before closing the meeting, I will read the parliamentary control message for tomorrow - Deputy Prime Minister of Climate Policy and Minister of Environment and Water Borislav Sandov will answer one question from the MP Daniel Petrov. - Minister of Defence Dragomir Zakov will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Petkov and a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev. - Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Sabev will answer four questions from the MPs Alexander Nestorov; Blagovest Kirilov, Krum Zarkov and Ivan Petkov; Slavena Tocheva; and Mladen Shishkov. - Minister of Internal Affairs Boyko Raskov will answer 62 questions from the MPs Hairi Sadakov.. three questions; Elhan Kulkov. Two questions; Pavlin Krastev. Two questions; Stanislav Anastasov. Two questions; Dzhevdet Chakarov. Two questions; Mustafa Karadai; Adlen Shevked. Three questions; Bajram Bajram On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 97, para. 2 of the MNS due to a business trip outside the country in the parliamentary control meeting will not participate: - Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova; - Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov; - Minister of Energy Alexander Nikolov. Due to urgent commitments in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Grozdan Karadjov will not participate. That's why I'm closing today's session. The next regular meeting will be held tomorrow at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
