ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u1	Please register! Eight MPs participate online on a list. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u3	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u5	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u7	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u9	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u10	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u11	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u12	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u13	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u14	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u15	Inna Ivanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u16	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u17	Thank you. 202 Members of parliament registered in the Chamber and 8 online There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] The draft work programme of the National Assembly for this week from 26 January to 28 January 2022 shall be as follows: "1." Abort the authority of the MP for resignation by the National Representative Alexander Todorov. 2. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens. Importers group of Members of the National Assembly. 3. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 4. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2020. Importer "The Communications Regulation Commission." 5. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2020 ? Analysis of the postal market. Importer supposed to the Communications Regulation Commission. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importers - group of MPs - first item for Thursday 27 January 2022 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act. Importer "The Council of Ministers" point two for Thursday, 27 January 2022. 8. First vote on the Bill on Covered Bonds. Importer "The Council of Ministers" point 3 for Thursday, 27 January 2022. 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Preschool and School Education Act. Importer "The Council of Ministers" point one for Friday, 28 January 2022. 10. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote on the proposed project. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u19	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u21	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u22	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u23	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u25	Yordan Majunkov? Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u27	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u29	Thank you. Inna Ivanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u31	Mr. Madjunkov, last time?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u33	They voted 197 MPs in the Chamber and 8 online " 205" total: 146 in the Chamber and 8 online " 154" total, against 4, abstention 47. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! My procedure is in the manner in which you are led, Mr. Chairman! I will ask you again to follow the Rules, this time art. 60, para. 3, and I will quote it to you if you do not know it: We warned you last week. You've put in a very uncomfortable situation for all your colleagues here to resort and vote with other people's cards to a very unpleasant job. But this happened 12 years ago in GERB. [[Voices from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] You're doing the same thing to vote with other people's biometrics. So let's follow the rules and show what integrity really is. I'm asking you to turn on the biometrics!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u35	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Indeed, all biometric data has been collected. I checked. As soon as possible, please switch the system to biometric voting. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] I think it takes some technical time, Mr. Karadaye, just for this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u36	We know that! This technical time could be 12 years!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u37	Hristo Gadget, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u38	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! I'm taking a procedure in the manner of conduct and it's related to the fiasco that went through the parliamentary control meeting on Friday. For the people who were not here in the Chamber, since we had stayed at the meeting about twenty-twenty-five people... [[Relations from MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Yeah. Which cards were, I don't know, dears. The point is that then the parliamentary control meeting continued, but there were no ministers to answer the questions and there was a very awkward situation to sit in silence because there was no one to ask questions. Some of the ministers released, so to speak, apology notes that they had business appointments, others got sick, but a third did not come at all. Now, as you know, even if there is an apology note of a minister's official commitment, it is the President's duty to ensure that the next minister on the list comes here and answers the questions. Something like that didn't happen. You then made a commitment that you would check why the ministers were not present at the parliamentary control meeting, and why did not some people actually come here at all, even those who said that they had a professional commitment........................ In this regard, Mr President, I ask you: will you carry out an inspection or have you rather carried out an inspection as you promised, to understand why these ministers failed to comply with their obligation to come to parliamentary control? Because, if not, we really need to refer again to the Staff Regulations, within ten days, to come to give a personal explanation as to why they were not in parliamentary control. Because in a similar way, first of all, they did not expose the opposition, they humiliated the entire National Assembly, including you, and put you in an extremely awkward situation. I hope this doesn't happen again, but it's important that we find out why these people aren't here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u39	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I checked all the excuses received from the ministers and really had those who had made commitments, such commitments I personally checked. Now I can't tell you the specific commitments, since I still can't make them public, but indeed the minister who wrote that he was sick even sent me a medical course. And just to say, the ministers who had released similar ones are placed in parliamentary control for this week in the first place among the ministers who will be responsible. Since, you know, the prime minister and deputy prime ministers are always first in parliamentary control, the ministers are rotting. The ministers who had such an apology are now at the top of the list of questions for Friday to answer. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's the way it's supposed to be. Mr. Chairman, on Friday I objected and presented to you one thing which is registered in the system as an answer to my question to Minister Rashkov. At present, it has not yet been corrected that I have not received an answer to my question, which is asked on 15 December. I would ask you to correct the system because I have not received an answer from Minister Rashkov, to take on the role of President of the National Assembly and to answer me when I will receive an answer from Minister Rashkov to the question I have asked. And correct the system so we don't let the public down that there's an answer to my question! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u41	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. It is forwarded to the Minister of Interior along with a copy of the express transcription in which your arguments are really exposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u42	There's no answer. Correct the system!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u43	Thank you. We move on to proposals for inclusion on the agenda received on the basis of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. A proposal was made by the MPs Daniel Mitov and Ekaterina Zaharieva to hold a hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, subject to parliamentary control by the National Assembly, concerning the consequences of the Prime Minister's visit to the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the intergovernmental meeting held between the two countries. We discussed at the Chairman's Council because the request itself does not specify what day of the week to be included that it would be appropriate, if voted, to be the first point on Friday, i.e. to be the eighth of the Programme, respectively nine and ten being renumbered. Please vote on the proposal of Daniel Mitov and Ekaterina Zaharieva. [[Replying in the hall.]] First point for Friday, that is, a ninth will appear in the program, and the existing ninth and tenth will be renumbered to the tenth and eleventh. I apologize. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u44	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u45	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u46	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u47	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u48	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u49	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u50	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u51	Yordan Majunkov? Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u52	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u53	Tsvetan Enchev? Inna Ivanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u54	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u55	Yordan Majunkov, last time? 196 votes in the hall and 6 votes online in total 202: for 110 in the hall and 3 online The motion is accepted. [[Reply: "Prevoting! "]] There's been a request for a re-vote. We're revoting, colleagues. Colleagues online: Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u56	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u57	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u58	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u59	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u60	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u61	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u62	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u63	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u64	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u65	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u67	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u68	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u69	Inna Ivanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u70	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u71	They voted 197 MPs in the Chamber and 8 online " 205" total: 109 in the Chamber and 4 online "113" total, against 50 in the Chamber and 3 online " 53" abstentions 38 in the Chamber and 1 online "39." The motion is accepted. So the hearing will take place on Friday and will be point nine of our Work Week Programme. The existing points nine and ten of the Programme shall be renumbered to points ten and eleven respectively. There is a request from the National Representative Elisaveta Belobradova to hold a hearing of the Chairman of the National Health Insurance Fund, subject to parliamentary control by the National Assembly on the transfer of assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to the National Health Insurance Fund. Go ahead, Mrs. Bellobradova. [[Definitions between MP Elisaveta Belobradova and Chairman Nikola Minchev.]] You're withdrawing him. The offer has been withdrawn. We're done voting on the program. Messages: The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of a plane with crew members of the Greek Air Force. The authorisation shall be valid for one flight for the purpose of participating in implementing security measures. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearances should be granted to the countries concerned following a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notification was received on 25 January 2022 with entry number 47-203-09-10 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. I also inform you that at a regular meeting held on 12 January, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation in implementation of art. 21, para. 4 of the PSC elected from its composition a permanent subcommittee for monitoring the activities in the field of consumer protection and restriction of monopolies. The subcommittee shall consist of 7 Members of the National Assembly of one of each Parliamentary Group. Stoyan Nikolov Taslakov's candidacy by the parliamentary group of a party will be voted at the next Commission meeting. President Iskren Mitev, members of the Council, Adlen Shevked, Desislava Trifonova, Petar Marinov, Rumen Gechev, Snezhanka Trayanska. We move on to item one of the agenda: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. An application was made by Alexander Velislavov Todorov, Member of the National Assembly from the Fifteenth Election Region of Pleven, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution resigns as the MP elected to the 40th National Assembly and wishes to be terminated as the MP. [[National Representative Danny Kanazireva wants the floor.]] Let me just read the work project, Mrs. Kanazireva, and we'll get started. A work project has been prepared that I will read: ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Alexander Velislavov Todorov as MP from the Fifteenth Election Region Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion on the business project. Come in for a statement, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Makes the impression that it has become a regular practice to sign false declarations. The gentleman in question, who became director, is still acting MP, who applied only after being elected CEO of the Sports Totalizer. In accordance with art. 20, para. 1, t. 9 of the Public Enterprise Act, a member of a management body cannot be a person holding a public office. He has signed a declaration that he does not borrow one, but post-factum has submitted an application for exit and release.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u73	Is that true?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u74	Yeah, on the 21st.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u75	Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u76	So it became a practice to already submit false declarations to this National Assembly. Kiril Petkov filed one, lived a catharsis, repented, but apparently among the rulers it becomes a practice to break both the rules and the laws, and the Constitution in this case we have a signed one. Article 68, para. 1 of the Constitution also states that the national representative cannot hold a position which is incompatible with its status as such. In accordance with art. 6, para. 1, t. 2 of the Anti-Corruption Act, the people's representative holds a public office and, as such, cannot hold another state office. The gentleman in question is not discussing his professional qualities. He is probably a very good expert, but at the time of his inauguration as executive director he was still acting MP. We will not support this point because, although we are listening on a daily basis for a change that is supposed to occur in Bulgaria, we are witnessing that this change is in the direction of breaking the rules by the authorities for the taking of senior government positions, and once again we have a violation of both the Constitution and the laws in the country. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS. Reply by National Representative Mustafa Karadayi: "Replica! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u77	Mr. Karadaye, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kanazireva, in my opinion it is not appropriate to give Mr. Kiril Petkov as an example and to make analogies with others, citizens of the state who are submitting declarations because we understand that Mr. Kiril Petkov's declarations do not matter at all! I will ask you at another time not to refer to it as an example, either for compliance with the Constitution of the country or with the laws of the country, including for the signing of documents, whether with true or false content, and that is not essential because his declarations, his signatures do not matter! We get that. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria was also pronounced.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u79	Mr. Karadaye, on the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u80	The Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria was also pronounced. From this point of view, my line is please don't set it as an example. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u81	Mrs. Angelkova, are you for a line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Kanazireva, in addition to the legal grounds to which you have listed, on which the Member of the National Assembly he is still a Member of the National Assembly, as we are about to vote on his release as such, I think it is appropriate to add art. 313 of the Penal Code, I respect: The person who confirmed the truth or kept the truth in a written declaration or a message sent electronically, which by law, decree or decree of the Council of Ministers is given before the authority for the certificate of authenticity of certain circumstances, is punished by imprisonment of up to three years or by a fine of 100 to 300 BGN. So I ask: will the prosecution self-serving itself and accordingly proceed to comply with the Law, as is true for all citizens, or for the ruling coalition the laws of the state do not apply?! As well as Mr. Karadayi before me made a line, it is obvious that for the Prime Minister of the country Mr. Kiril Petkov neither the Constitution nor the laws of the country are important and he must respect it. Are these the rules of the ruling coalition of all parties in it, will they all be above the law and will the laws in this country apply to every Bulgarian citizen? That's my line to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u83	Thank you. Is there a third line? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u84	My back is for Mr. Karadayi. Thank you for the remark for the example with Kiril Petkov. What surprised me in this case: as the director of the Sports Totalizer clearly is from the quota of the "There is such a people" if we go back to the previous National Assembly, there is such a people (there is) raised the issue of dual citizenship and the declaration of false data in the declaration lodged, knowing every medium-intelligent person without legal education, that without the intended act of one state there is no way to free himself from the respective citizenship.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u85	On the agenda, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u86	At the time, the attacks by "There is such a people" were extremely serious. [[a line from MP Mustafa Karadaye]] , even by asking the Foreign Minister. In this case, however, with extreme ease they act in the same way, but now for their director of the Sports Totalizer. The impression, the vicious model that is required, is the distribution of posts, mostly in the last two months, no matter at what price and without regard to either the Constitution or the laws. It becomes a vicious practice, and perhaps from now on we will witness a number of others. We really hope this time this declaration and, as colleague Angelkova quoted, every Bulgarian citizen, signing a declaration below, has one text: I am aware, I know the responsibility I bear for declaring false circumstances under art. 313 ", here a false declaration at the time of his appointment as Director of the Sports Totalizer was signed fully consciously as...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u87	Mrs. Kanazireva, we are here discussing the resignation application and the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u88	It doesn't have a resignation. Look, Mr. Chairman, this is an extremely important topic. You can't change, I'm already saying it in quotes, it's just a change to breaking a Constitution, laws and rules. This is ridiculous! Again, we say that we will not support it, that our position is principled. None of us contests the qualities of the person concerned, whether he has or does not have such as a director, this will be seen in the future. You can't let the Sports Minister release the old board of directors, that they can't handle it and that he wants a team of his own... And in fact, it turns out that the only shift is to hire people from close party people...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u89	The weather, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u90	...and by all means, exclusively with the declaration of false data.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u91	Twenty seconds!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u92	Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u93	Thank you, too. Mr. Tsonev, come in for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u94	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. You interrupted Mr. Karadayi, and you interrupted Mrs. Kanazireva with the argument that they were not speaking on the subject on the agenda. I would like to ask you to explain what is not at the point, because this point is termination of the authority of the MP? This is about his appointment as executive director of the totalizer. Apparently, there's a time-collision here. If there is none, documents must be submitted that he has not been appointed, that he has not filled out a declaration that we release him first today, and then they will appoint him and so on and so forth. So I ask you to explain why you made a remark to the two MPs that they were not speaking at the point? I find that they speak exclusively and precisely at the item on the agenda........................................ the opinion of the parliamentary groups and the reply addressed to Mrs Canazireva contained these motives..................................... are voting for termination or not because we believe an infringement has been committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u95	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. I intervened, I didn't interrupt taking the floor with Mr. Karadye when he was making an analogy with Kiril Petkov, as this is off the agenda. [[(Replyings from DPS: s) This is part of the arguments.]] With Mrs. Kanazireva, because the subject of discussion of this discussion is the application for resignation, which, as you know, is neither motivated nor the work project. This is, not the declaration he filed when appointing as Director of the Sports Totalizer. Thank you. Hamid Hamid is listed here for a statement. For speech both Radomir Cholakov and Krasen Kralev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will support the application of our young colleague Alexander Todorov. Everything that has been said so far has been true, but is it our young colleague's fault, will we, colleagues, understand why this has happened?? Why are we again facing a situation of a signed false declaration? Where is the real key to this decision? Who led this young colleague to the future before him, the lotto has to develop with him from now on, to sign this declaration who served him as an example to do it? Because, colleagues, with a false statement today the director of the lottery, tomorrow the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria! [[Applause by MP Mustafa Karadaye.]] Colleagues, we heard from the court about this. Where were the media in this case? Where is the freedom of speech to understand the motives of the colleague to submit this application? Where are these media, colleagues? Or the truth lies in the publication of an authoritative French magazine "Entreprende" it is said that the media in Bulgaria are servants of the media oligarch Prokopiev and he has the most influence in the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Applause from DPS.]] Is it not encouraged, colleagues, the colleague's application, the signing of the declaration by some actions of the Prosecutor's Office, which covered Prime Minister Kiril Petkov's declaration most helpfully? It honors the Constitutional Court, which ruled under the Constitution and the laws of the country. Obviously, colleagues, the policy of change, the new strategy of the ruling majority is: "There is no Constitution, there are no laws, we are protected by the prosecution, we are protected by the oligarch Prokopiev. "Thank you very much. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u97	Are there any lines to Mr. Hamid? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Hamid, allow me to disagree with you. [[Noise, lines, laughter from DPS.]] I propose that we do not release my colleague Todorov because tomorrow he is on duty as parliamentary secretary with an order from the President of the National Assembly. The National Assembly will remain without a parliamentary secretary. From this point of view, I suggest that we not release him, but support him to perform his functions as a representative of the National Assembly. It hasn't been clear who this media oligarch is, Mr. Hamid? It didn't make sense! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u99	There are no other lines. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u100	Dear Mr. Letifov, as I said, my colleague is not to blame, so we will release him. We'll find another secretary. Him, the new guy, we'll send him to the lottery the day after tomorrow. Mr. Letifov, stop reading only Capital. Read the European press Read the French media, read the German media. There you will learn that the name of the media energy and any oligarch in Bulgaria is Ivo Prokopiev. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u101	Mr. Hamid, I don't think this has anything to do with today's discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u102	They're asking me. That's the line, what can I do?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u103	Radomir Cholakov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We're having a good time making jokes, but Machiavelli, if I'm not mistaken, by memory, or paraphrasing him, said that one power can be whatever it wants. The only thing she has no right to do is be ridiculous. This government is getting funnier and funnier. The bad news is, if we don't take responsibility for what's happening in the government's midst, the parliament becomes ridiculous. And we all swore many times, and in election campaigns, that we would raise the authority of parliament. In this way, we do not raise the authority of Parliament by agreeing to what is happening and making it a joke. To me, Mr. Hamid, I'm also curious what's going on in our colleagues' heads? I mean, purely psychologically, I want to know what's going on. Clearly, we had one case, flagrant, violation of the Constitution, violation of art. 313 of the Penal Code. This was the action of Mr. Kiril Petkov and his declaration of false content. That's when they all said, "Make it go." Including responsible state authorities. We now have a second case in which a minister, who is a lawyer, was a respected colleague of ours, appointed his fellow MP as executive director of the State Agency, given that he is absolutely unconditionally aware that he is committing a violation of the law. The colleague, whether young or not, signs a false declaration with full awareness that he is signing a false declaration. We could have released our colleague today because he decided to be appointed CEO of the State Agency tomorrow or whatever agency he is, there would be no problem. What was the rush? Why did this wrongdoing have to be committed? Why should this violence be committed against the law, against morality, against our understanding of order? See, the same action, starting to repeat, it becomes a system. Once the Prime Minister signs a declaration with false content, well, a second time now a declaration with false content, colleagues, what is going on? The other day I took the liberty of saying, perhaps I, too, in the circle of the joke and on another occasion, that it was about taking power in the center and in the places. I'm deliberately using an old, communist guerrilla terminology. I'm starting to get the feeling really that this is about forcibly taking over power in the center and in the areas. So we don't just have to assign our people to services, but we have to make them demonstrably in violation of the law to demonstrate that there will be no laws in this country and that from now on we are the law. If that is the case, this is a very dangerous behaviour, which, in my opinion, the entire national representation, including colleagues from all parliamentary groups, must be put to an end. We have to say we don't agree to go on like this. Because it destroys democratic rule because it destroys parliamentaryism to the bottom. That's brazen! I will not open here a tale of the appointment of women, of husbands and of this nepotism that is already becoming terrifying in this country, which is just as arrogant. So arrogantly we'll hire the women, arrogantly hire the cousins, arrogantly hire the friends! Because! Because that's what we're gonna do. So this thing has to stop. Because it was never such a miracle in Bulgaria and it was not during communism. [[(Reply from..We continue The ……]] No, it wasn't. So arrogant appointment of women, cousins, lovers, and so on it wasn't. [[(Noise, comments from GERB-SDS: "A," lovers ……]] I hope that my colleague Todorov will make a statement. I wish he'd make a statement, say two words to the boy. [[Noise and lines.]] I understand that all this was done with his declaration and the simultaneous submission of the application for leaving the National Assembly to say: but it had no direct intention, he was not aware that he was committing a violation, as Kiril Petkov said he had no knowledge that he was a Canadian citizen, but he was. And the colleague now may not have had the awareness that he was a member of parliament at the time who accepted the appointment, but he is a member of parliament and the violation has been committed and consumed. So now we're gonna hear the apology, I guess. We'll take it. We are going to vote against it, in order to give a sign that this cannot be done any more, we must not break the laws in this flagrant way. I'm telling you, I'm gonna keep an eye on and keep an eye on the violent takeover of power, and there's gonna be more demonstrations about breaking laws and morals to find out where someone's pushing this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u105	Hamid Hamid's line, here you go first. And Nikolina Angelkova too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Cholakov, from your question to me what is in the heads of fellow MPs. I'll give you an answer. In fact, you said to yourself that this is already a system. Unfortunately, a well-functioning system, a system that tends to, arrogantly and harshly violates the Constitution and the laws of the country. I'll say it again: the young colleague has nothing to do with it. Whoever let him down, even though he's a sports minister, he's a lawyer, a lawyer. At the forty-fiveth National Assembly, he was chairman of the Legal Commission. With the back, answer: is the young colleague guilty, this minister or all those who sent him to be a minister? That's the practice. Please don't attack the young colleague. It's not her fault. The colleague Todorov asked. You have brilliant lawyers, Iva Miteva ask. Mr. Mihailov is also a unique lawyer. So ask them before you sign anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u107	And Nikolina Angelkova for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u108	Dear Mr. Cholakov, I do not agree with you in a way that this is becoming a system according to the legal language that this is becoming a relapse. And I would like to ask you are the ruling coalition relapseists, will this continue to govern the state in continuous violation of the laws of the country and in continuous violation of the same repeated actions in the conditions of relapse as defined in the Criminal Code? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u109	Is there a third line to Mr. Cholakov? I won't. A hole? Mr. Cholakov, I beg your pardon? You don't want a doppelganger, okay. For speech "Alexander Todorov"? Eva Miteva? Then Krasen Kralev, to exchange groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In relation to the case, I would like to tell you that there is a law here to counter corruption and to take away the illegally acquired property and according to art. 6, para. 1, t. 49: The Executive Director of the State Enterprise "Bulgarian controversial Totalizer" is a person holding a senior public office. According to this law................................................................................................... 36, which was adopted by the National Assembly, at the initiative of GERB, there is explicitly one month's period in which persons who declare incompatibility must liquidate this incompatibility. In the declaration that Alexander Todorov has submitted, it is explicitly stated that, by the way, you are also doing so in your declarations when you have become MPs and we have all filed such a declaration and we have all stated this if we have any incompatibility. [[Reply: that's not true!]] It's true this thing. This is where we submit it, only to the Anti-Corruption Commission until its establishment before the National Assembly. In this declaration Alexander Todorov stated clearly and categorically that he was a MP, that he held such a position and that until his entry into the Commercial Register, from which time he was in office, he would cease this authority. That is why we are currently voting on his resignation, on Friday he has submitted a request for exemption from the National Assembly. He has declared that fact and according to art. 36 para. 3, I will read it to you: "When the person has declared the existence of incompatibility, he shall be obliged, within one month of the submission of the declaration, to take the necessary steps to remedy the incompatibility and to provide evidence to the appointing authority. This he has done, he has respected the Law and I think there is no basis for this dispute at the moment. That's what all the people in the country are doing, and we don't suppose that everyone who hires them in any position will be unemployed! This is an exact guarantee so that people can have time to get rid of those jobs that they occupy and do not have compatibility. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Any lines to Mrs. Miteva? Danny Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u112	Dear Mrs. Miteva, we are fully aware and we know the Law and we know about the 30-day period, but the hypothesis here is different and we read different declarations with you and it is best for the prosecution to determine how it is declared. However, where, in order to make use of this hypothesis, a fellow Member should really declare incompatibility. But in the declaration we have, Alexander Todorov declared that he did not hold a senior public office under art. 6, para. 1, t. 1 to 38, 41 "45" of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property: I am not a member of a political cabinet or secretary of a municipality. "I mean, you have another declaration, and we do not have the same statement, but this statement, which we have, the gentleman in question, has declared that there are no circumstances under art. 6, para. 1, t. 2, namely the incompatibility of the status of a Member of the National Assembly with the post held so that it can benefit accordingly from the text which you are quoting, namely the 30-day period for eliminating incompatibility. Again we will repeat: in order to declare false data and content, criminal responsibility is held. Let the judicial authorities do their job and check which authentic declaration is the one filed with the Commercial Register, that it has no incompatibility with that date, or that there is another declaration with which it declares compatibility and which it will remove within 30 days? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. A line? Hamid Hamid came out, then for a replica.. Radomir Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u114	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Miteva, do you see how difficult it is even in your situation as a brilliant lawyer to find arguments to protect the young colleague at the moment? And how easy it would have been before he signed this declaration if you had given him this advice: "Friend, wait one day, no problem, don't rush for the next run, one six will drop it..." [[Laughter and lines.]] Do you see how difficult it is, your arguments, Mrs. Miteva, sound exactly like the arguments of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office under that statement. See how funny that sounds? Even my non-jurists know you're wrong. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u115	And Radomir Cholakov for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u116	And again in this spirit, Mrs. Miteva, because we respect you, you could have simply said: "The colleague instead of the other one has signed another by mistake or, for example, instead of scratching the first box, you are going to explain how it was practice, and it is not practice. I myself in the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly was in conflict of interest at the beginning and quite deliberately crossed out my box: I am in conflict of interest and then we fixed it, then I filed my new declaration and things got better. But do you know what I started thinking when I was listening to you now, Mrs. Miteva? A moment ago, Mr. Hamid and I exchanged a word that we might be talking about a system. Mr. Hamid, it's not a system to tell you! It's legal incompetence! I mean, they're just illiterate and they're in a hurry, they're in a hurry to take power, they make mistakes, and then they say, come on, big deal. [[Laughter and lines]] Mrs. Miteva, help the coworkers! There are legal ways to do everything, it doesn't necessarily have to be illegal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u117	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Here you go, Mrs. Miteva. I would just like to ask that we refrain from qualifying as incompetent and others who could be considered offensive! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u118	I will ask my colleagues, when they use this qualification, to think a little bit and to get to know really carefully all the documents. In the declaration that Alexander Todorov has declared, including 23 is categorically written: On the date of drawing up this declaration, I do not meet the conditions of the following points, i.e. 10 and so on. 15s, one of which is precisely a Member of the National Assembly. Paragraph 24 states: "In case there are non-compliances referred to in point (a). 23, I declare here above that the same will be removed within the time limit until my entry in the Trade Register as a member of the Board of Directors or within the term of office. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. To make a statement, Krasen Kralev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I continue to argue that the thesis expressed by my colleague Danny Kanazireva is absolutely correct. In the declaration we have, there is a statement signed by our colleague Alexander Todorov that he does not hold such a position for the entry in front of the Trade Register. It is really impressive how easy it is for some colleagues in the ruling majority not to comply with the law, and I do not know who needs it, what this haste needs, and I will not question the qualities of our colleague Alexander Todorov, of course, nor will I question the right of the Minister of Youth and Sports to choose a team of the Sports Totalizer with whom he will work. However, the National Assembly could have waited until today to vote on the resignation of our colleague Alexander Todorov, only then to submit the necessary declaration to the Commercial Register and to issue the order to change the Board of Sports Totalizer tomorrow. In any event, the order issued on Friday is illegal according to the Sofia City Court, which yesterday stopped the registration of the new leadership of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer elected by Youth and Sports, with the decision of the Sofia City Court without the right to appeal. It is clear that this board will eventually be replaced. It is clear that even greater profits will be made by then. Because the truth is that at the moment, according to the report of the Board of Directors of the Sports Totalizer, the Company has a record profit of 53 million. lv. in 2021, and currently in its accounts there are nearly 50 million. BGN, which is a historical record. Maybe that's the reason for the rush, I don't know! However, even a week or two weeks of delay at most will lead to an increase in the company's accounts. I would just like to point out that the current board of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer has been selected through a competition under the Public Enterprises Act, and I believe you remember that this law has been passed in order to avoid and minimize political appointments in these enterprises. Have these days been fatal? These five days have been fatal to the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer that should have been rushed, not to comply with the law? All this could have ended very quickly and very easily if there was respect, respect for all the necessary documents that had to be submitted. Perhaps then the Sofia City Court would not have stopped the entry of the Totalizer. We won't understand the motives of these people. I am also convinced that our colleague Alexander Todorov, whom I know, he unwittingly signed this declaration on his own. Obviously, someone else is in a hurry, as the motives for this may become clear very soon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u121	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u122	Line, line, line!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u123	There's a line? Okay. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Kralev! Today it became clear that the new coalition, the new government of our country, and our fellow MPs have once again proved that they do not respect either the Constitution or the laws of our country. It became clear that the young colleague was also misled by his comrades, apparently there is some kind of internal fire. At the end of the week, we learned from another institution that the new governors don't have 100 chances, and they only have 100 days. Apparently, we respect our colleagues, they're in a hurry for the next run, it's probably a big jackpot. From now on, Mr. Kralev, my request is: we must also follow the sixes in the lottery?! We must follow them so that we do not confuse the lottery and thus not let society down and trust in the lottery, and that the Bulgarian sport does not fail. So, colleagues, let's keep an eye on the situation from now on. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u125	There are no other lines. Will there be a hole? No. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct and is related to the first item on the agenda. We heard all sorts of empty words from GERB and DPS, but I wanted to hear for example why we should keep it and not support its resignation or why we don't like it and we should let it go. We are listening to declarations. I do not see such an item on the agenda. I'm doing a procedure to end this debate, which is pointless.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u127	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. [[Noise and lines.]] Silence! I reminded that the topic is an application for resignation and a draft decision, and it is not really a statement to other institutions. In this part, Mr. Ananiev's objection is absolutely correct. Regarding the proposal for termination, Mr. Ananiev, it is not admissible in this procedure, so we cannot put it to the vote. Mr. Letifov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u128	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. We raised the question a moment ago, because you were interrupting, you made comments on what is essentially on this topic. We believe that this is the substance of the subject and of the point under discussion. Put frames on what is acceptable for debate and talking on this point and do not allow idle talk. The rallies were just a while ago, the rest we think is a debate on the point that is needed. We understand that non-compliance with the rules and laws of the country does not impress you, but empty talk is on the other side. Either you say what's unacceptable in this debate or you don't interrupt the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u129	Thank you. I think I made it clear what I think is coming within the discussion, which is coming from the description of the item on the agenda. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are discussing the first point of the agreement of Mr. Alexander Todorov. Such cases and previous National Assemblys have been encountered. There were debates whether to comment on the resignation at all, whether to vote for or not. In principle, this is a statement by our colleague, who says: "I do not want to be a Member of the National Assembly from this date. " Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you personally. When we are all elected as MPs and the last date was November 14th, from the very date of the elections we are elected to the people. We come to this Chamber, we take an oath before the largest, highest law in the country... the Constitution, we say that we will obey the laws of the country and in all our actions we will be guided by the interests of the people. So far, so good. Whether the colleague was guided by the interests of the people is a separate matter. Mr. Chairman, when we elected you president as the first of the National Assembly's equal, more or less the MPs were led by your CV. You are a lawyer, i.e. with legal education, you have knowledge of law, and I can tell you know what is right or wrong. As a chair of parliamentaryism, you must monitor very accurately and clearly what is happening in the National Assembly, how laws should be respected, when you should interrupt the MP, be absolutely tolerant of everyone and equal before the law. If we follow the Constitution and trust in the Constitution, the People's Representative Todorov has every reason. But, Mr. President, there is a crime here within the meaning of the law, a false document, a refusal of an act of registration and a decision of the Sofia City Court, so that the colleague will not be registered as director of the Sports Totalizer. I ask you a question: Did you, as a representative of the National Assembly, bother with these documents to refer to the prosecution? If you have taken this step, we can release the colleague not because he has made a statement, but because the prosecution has been brought to justice because there is a crime. I say this with the highest degree of respect, because both the Prime Minister and the new honourable MPs want to make a new sense in the word. If these are the actions of the new honourable MPs, I leave it to the Bulgarian society to decide how to approach the respective political formations and MPs from now on. But that's not a precedent in his actions. Note, in the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly, the colleague had inadvertently neglected to write off in the 30-day term of the governing body of a large enterprise. So whether these are precedents in his actions, whether anyone has told him again I let the public judge. Therefore, Mr. President, it is good to hear on the basis of all actions and acts and crimes within the meaning of the law which the colleague has committed, you, as President of the National Assembly, have you approached, or will you refer to the prosecution for what the colleague has done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u131	Mr. Ibryamov, I haven't taken any action yet, as you say. I would also like to point out that whether or not a certain act constitutes a crime is not decided in this House. We should refrain from such qualifications. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Ibryamov! I am very worried because my colleague, apart from the interest of the people, obviously does not respect his personal interest. For me there is a great perplexity in times of economic crisis and growing accounts of how from the salary of every member of parliament who you all know here what is Mr. Kralev, if I am wrong, correct me, he goes and becomes CEO twice, three times lower salary?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u133	Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Oh, miracle, GERB and DPS speak and quote the Constitution of this tribune! [[Noise, laughter and lines.]] Oh, a miracle! [[Applause.]] How can there be no change?! It's not a change, it's just a miracle! I am surprised, I cannot believe and congratulate the entire coalition for bringing a new meaning to the word MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u135	Please, a line to Mr. Ibryamov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u136	GERB and DPS are talking about the Constitution and quoting it from the stands! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "INN" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u137	Colleagues, when there is a line, let's address the main statement in some way. Is there a third line? There's no third line. A hole by Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u138	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I am tempted because the miracle is a fact in the National Assembly there are MPs who do not respect the Constitution. Oh, the miracle is a fact, because the integrity of the new change is a replacement for me not to respect the Constitution! This is the miracle, dear Members of the House! [[Applause from DPS.]] If you insist on integrity, if you hold on to morality, if you are the new change, without hesitation the colleague will come out and apologize. The same applies to Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. Because, my fellow Members, this is an oath of allegiance, nothing more! And in the sense of the law, it's a crime, a miracle! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u139	For procedure.. Rositsa Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u140	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. I would ask you to interrupt fellow MPs who, regardless of the reason of their own excitement or overexcitement and desire to participate in some theater show and performance, are speaking on a topic that is serious enough. And because we are in the field of wonders, I want my colleague to quote to me when GERB and DPS have broken the Constitution in a way that it has been trampled specifically by the current prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u141	In the second part, I don't think there's any need to answer. At the first part, I mentioned at the time of the reply that the main speech in the reply should be addressed. To speak, Tosko Yordanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u142	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues of the opposition, I understand what you are trying to do. It's your job to pick up the patch even when there isn't. I'd advise you to listen to what Eva Miteva has to say. [[Noise and lines.]] She read you the whole declaration, it's nice to be educated for free. There are two pages of the declaration. The law has not been broken. If the law is broken, report who you intend to check. The truth is that the problem here is the lotto as part of the vicious model of GERB, which has rotted and squandered all state administration and all structures. Currently, the clean-up of GERB from this tumor, which has been introduced in the form of corruption, of addictions throughout the country. That's the problem. That's why you're screaming. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change", INN, BSP for Bulgaria.]] And to the DPS I want to remind you, because they like to quote, they did some lines for sixes of the lottery colleagues, I remember, you know, when the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer had two A's with the same numbers for two consecutive weeks there is no such coincidence in the universe. [[Heckling]] Six numbers, two weeks in a row, you know what was in the lottery and who! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change", INN, BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u143	Thank you. For the line, Danny Kanazireva. I'm asking you to hold on to the matter of resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u144	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Yordanov! From the very beginning of the so-called change that has begun, Mr. Yordanov has allowed himself to make very often offensive qualifications from this tribune, which does not honor you, Mr. Yordanov. What you came out to say, you actually had to address it to your group. From the very beginning, my speech was generally and completely well-meaning. You politicize this issue and ignore the fact that once again the ruling majority, which has the self-confidence that brings new morality, will break the article at once. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the Constitution, Art. 20, para. 1, t. 9 of the Law on Public Enterprises in connection with art. 6, para. 1, t. 2 of the Anti-Corruption Act. I would ask you, from this tribune, specifically, to stop with these insulting qualifications, because in this case, if anyone has to make one about incompetence, unfortunately, the colleague you have raised is a lawyer, and that to you is a lawyer, for a false declaration lodged, again. Mrs. Miteva, with all due respect, is a lawyer. I, as a lawyer, will also tell you: this 30-day period you refer to in order to eliminate incompatibility, firstly, it must declare this incompatibility, and only then be removed within 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u145	For a line, Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u146	Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u147	I'm sorry, Mr. Ademov. I'm confused.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u148	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yordanov, if it is true that the young colleague is appointed to the Sports Totalizer, why is he not working there, is he appointed? There's labour law, he should be there. Secondly, if the hypothesis that Mrs. Miteva developed just now is correct, this hypothesis must start from the moment he is appointed. Given that he is in the National Assembly, he cannot be appointed by law under the Constitution. And otherwise, from this tribune, Mr. Yordanov, many people have practiced on the topic of PSD. I use this case to say that the exercises on the topic of rights and freedoms are not a spoon for every mouth, including yours. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u149	Third line? He wanted an I.N.N. for a third line. Mrs. Angelkova was the first of all the requests for a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u150	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Yordanov! I understand your instructions to listen to my esteemed colleague Iva Miteva, but did you ask yourself why the Sofia City Court suspended the registration of the new Toto leadership? Have you asked yourself this question, read the court's motives, to actually understand that the registration is illegal? There has been a violation of the Penal Code of Criminals in particular of art. 313, and that it is appropriate for the prosecution to self-conceive and take action. I really don't understand and I don't understand your desire to constantly show how the law should be violated. It wasn't a coincidence in a previous line that I mentioned that this is already turning into a relapse of the new government. Is this the change in each appointment to violate the laws of this country, and the Prime Minister is a specialist in violation of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u151	For the doppelganger, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u152	I hope I don't forget them all. First of all, about qualifications. I'm a man who thinks freedom of speech is like that. I wouldn't be offended if someone made a qualification for my speech just because freedom of speech is such that you have to say what you think. Second of all, I'm practicing for DPS. I asked a question when did two sixes fall in a row, in two consecutive weeks, with the same numbers, and who was in Tototo then? What's his exercise? Otherwise, I'll get back to the point. Listen, please, Mrs. Iva Miteva, it is declared that she is a MP in the declaration there is, it is noted. Legally to me as a bystander, Mrs. Kanazireva, you are a lawyer I understand, Iva Miteva is a lawyer, but how can I say the competences of the two are, how can I say it so that it does not come out as a qualification or some... in comparison, how to express myself, somehow in favor of Iva Miteva. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u153	Colleagues, some of the references have become too distant to the subject of discussion. Are you, Mr. Letifov, the way you conduct yourself? Plamen Abrovski for speech afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is to guide you. Please, despite Mr. Hadjitodorov's feelings of freedom of speech, of his personal freedom, in which I have no intention of interfering, there are ultimately rules that we all observe. He is clear, firm and qualifications are not eligible in him despite the personal freedom of Mr. Hadjitodorov, which I will defend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u155	Here you are, Mr. Nenkov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you, of course. It was nice to hear Mr. Toshko Yordanov say that everyone should express his will and his opinion. However, indeed, Mr. Chairman, I ask you to interrupt the MPs when they are trying to oppose the expertise of one or another colleague not because of something else, but because we have now heard several times about Mrs. Miteva. I also respect her as a person, as a lawyer, but now you're very well aware, and I'm from a family of lawyers, if you put three lawyers in one room, you won't hear a single opinion on any matter, will you? So I don't accept the idea that Mrs. Iva Miteva is some kind of a reference to everything she says is right in law. The law isn't mathematics. This is a serious science and does not particularly go to the chair of a parliamentary group to measure and to say who is a better expert or not. It is just really very ugly and for the colleague Kanazireva is offensive.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u157	Is there a third line? Third procedure in the manner of conduct? I won't. I just said, colleagues, you should not make qualifications from the parliamentary tribune. I keep saying that and please stick to the good tone. The comparisons between one lawyer or another are also some form of qualification, in so far as they can be interpreted offensively for the lower one. Here you are, Mr. Abrovsky, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To me, Iva Miteva is a brilliant lawyer. She told you on what basis and why we think there is no problem. Members of former rulers, I do not need to remind you how much the time of the MPs is worth, which you are currently pointlessly wasting. Why did I take the floor? Because I told you that there is no violation of the law, but whether there is a violation of the law or not, the only competent authority to say it is the Bulgarian court or body that has the opportunity to rule that there is a breach. In this regard, colleagues from GERB, be so good as not to qualify whether or not there is a violation of the law without pronouncing it. And to find out what I mean, I will draw your attention to the documents that the Minister of Environment and Water has provided me with, with which he has made public the violation of your colleagues, for which reason I am opening the clamp.. It can be action or inaction, the Rural Development Programme has been suspended. So watch your own garden and then another one. Thank you. [[Single applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u159	Please, on the subject. - What's the line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There's no case here right now. There is an application made by a Member of the National Assembly, who says: "I do not want to be a Member of the National Assembly. " - What are his motives, what declarations he has filled out, he bears his responsibility. There are competent authorities who will say whether Sasho Todorov broke the law or not. You now pronounce yourself here and use the word "crime" and so on. This brings me back to some dark times of GERB, which times we will not allow to return. From this tribune, one of your guru, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, is said, pronounced and said who is a criminal and who is not, and of those words, we were condemned in seven cases in Strasbourg. Mr. Chairman, this thing is unacceptable. We have an application filed and we must rule on it. What is Tototo, how is it done, what is done this thing is unacceptable. And is the current government funny, is it arrogant, is it exposing itself to Europe? Such was the government in all its three versions of Borisov. Unscrupulously, unceremoniously with humiliation not only of the Bulgarian people, but also of his MPs who were collected at the gas stations found in the field and used, I will not say this ugly word, I will say as slaves to fulfill in parliament his twisted desires.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u161	Mr. Atanasov, on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u162	Therefore, let us decide on the request of the Member, should we vote on it or should we not vote on it. In my opinion, we have no choice but to interpret his motives as to whether Sasho has done something. If the boy has done something, he will bear his own responsibility. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u163	Any other lines? I won't. For the doppelganger? I won't. Procedure by Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman! I address you in the manner of conduct. Once again, we will ask you from our parliamentary group to interrupt or make a remark when spoken outside the subject, especially when false qualifications are being made and the feeling is being created that what the ruling coalition and you are part of it are doing is necessarily right and true, and what the opposition is saying should be necessarily wrong and wrong. I draw your attention to the fact that, after all, all Members of the National Assembly have the same rights and it is our duty to express ourselves and to show the errors and violations of the laws in this country when they are taking place. Today we are discussing one such case. I put aside the qualities of my colleague, but we are all equal before the law, we are obliged to abide by it, and that is what we are discussing. I pay attention to you when colleagues make false qualifications and claims outside the subject, to take the necessary measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u165	Thank you. I reminded Mr. Atanasov during his cue to stick to the topic of the agenda. Mr. Todorov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From the beginning of the debate, I heard some pretty heavy qualifiers, almost how the law was violated. There is no violation of the law, you can be sure of that. There are competent authorities who will say whether or not there is a breach. On several occasions there was a question and many lawyers here said that I was appointed Executive Director of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, which does not correspond to the truth. My election is made by the decision of the Trade Register, by the registration in the Trade Register, so these claims do not correspond to the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u167	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Do you think there's any lines to it? Here you are, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u168	Mr. Todorov, you're obviously the director and you're a lawyer. The fact that it has not been entered in the Registry Agency does not mean that the documents to be submitted previously include the declaration in question in which you have declared that at this time you do not hold a public office under art. 20, para. 1, t. 9 of the Law on Public Enterprises in connection with art. 6, para. 1, t. 2. I stop talking about this because what really mattered is that once again we are witnesses in order for one or another appointment to happen, whether for a minister or director, to have a filled declaration of false content. With all due respect to Mrs. Miteva, your chairman is making an extremely incorrect comparison. That's extremely incorrect, because you don't know your colleagues. You haven't worked with them, and you don't know who has what competences and what expertise. Mrs. Miteva must have worked in parliament for years. I respect her experience and thesis on the elimination of incompatibility, but in this case the question is whether he declared such incompatibility or not, as in the declaration that we have, in point. 10 is declared that there is no such incompatibility on that date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u169	Thanks for the line. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Kanazireva, I think Mrs. Miteva made it very clear that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u171	Let you say no, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u172	That's right, yes. At the date of drawing up this declaration, I do not meet the following points, i.e. 10 and so on. 15. This is in the declaration, so to keep talking about it is unnecessary. As I said, there are competent authorities, if there are violations, let them report it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u173	Present this declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u174	The declaration will not be presented to you. [[Relations from the National Representative Danny Kanazireva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u175	To make a statement, Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u176	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I think we've spent a very long time at this point and this resigned request. [[Noise and lines.]] Is there any order in this room, Mr. Chairman? Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u177	Yes, you can hear yourself, Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u178	Someone will say that this debate is pointless. But from our point of view, that's not exactly true, and I'll tell you why. Two aspects of today's problem. On the one hand, the legal part where I don't want to go in because I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a specialist. As the subject has come up, there are sufficiently competent in this House, with different opinions and must be respected each opinion. Here, I open a clamp, even though my colleague Mr. Todorov and my colleague the Minister of Sports are lawyers, which raises doubts as to how lawyers do not read the law or read it as they please? But the other more important question is this: what is the trend? The trend, colleagues, in recent months is very simple. I'm talking to all the ruling parties, and you're acting like people you're in a hurry, and I'm wondering what's the hurry? Why did you find a loophole for all of these companies that had gone through competitions under the Public Enterprises Act to change to put your people in touch with relatives, friends and so on, opened a loophole in the law, started reading it to yourself, as you like and appoint people until a contest was held? Why, colleagues? In the case of the Sports Totalizer, why didn't the Minister of Sports hold a competition? That was the idea, wasn't it? Remember? For many years GERB has been blamed precisely for the need for competitions, that there should not be people unprepared for the respective positions, but what are you doing? You, in order to hurry, to buy time, are ready to bend any rules, provided that, in the case of a Sports Totalizer report, the Sports Totalizer is at record profit. What, then, colleagues, must be rushed? What's the target? Can someone come out and say something? Can Mr. Todorov come out and say? They're gonna do something better, make a bigger profit?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u179	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u180	Mr. Ananiev, just don't tell me what's on the subject, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u181	Not much on the subject, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u182	It's a lot on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u183	The topic is about the resignation and the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u184	It's a lot on the subject. Look, colleagues, we can't stop the volition made by Mr. Todorov. I don't know him. He must have his qualities. [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] If you could extend the time. He's got his qualities, I'm sure. It's a matter of thinking. This way of thinking, as has already been mentioned, started with the first person in the country, namely the Prime Minister. And as much as you don't like it, it's a fact, and people think they do. The fact that they forgive him or not some part of society is another matter, but there is also a decision of the Constitutional Court on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u185	And that's not on the subject, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u186	The same is true of Mr. Todorov's resignation. There is also a ruling in this direction of the Constitutional Court, which says, of course, that Parliament cannot stop its volition of his request for resignation. But here's the question: why not do it the way it is by law? Isn't that why you came here to follow the rules, to be different, to be better? It's supposed to be built, not degraded. Not always, colleagues, change means we're going for the better. The way you've driven it, in a hurry, to master different positions and positions, and spheres of influence, you'll get nowhere. I told you and last week nothing starts and doesn't end with you. You must learn and this is the work of the opposition, so today we are talking. You must learn, repent, and from now on we should not go into such situations. I think today's debate will still make sense because it will be preventive for any such situation. Nothing personal about anyone, but here it was interesting, I'll tell you a sentence, I won't quote it exactly, to the Minister of Sports. When they asked him, "Okay, why are you doing this?" he said, "Because that's what I've decided!" That's what your thinking is, that's what's sad! Not because you want to do something good, not because you want to improve some activity of some company, ministry, agency or anything, but because on some principle, unclear what, somewhere determined, you just need to master the specific structure, and nothing more. It is not related to any way of working, so, colleagues, this is the more important issue. In its declaration, since it was still a question of whether there was a breach or not, the answer is very simple: the Registry Agency has suspended the entry, as has the Sofia City Court as well. What do you want to hear more clearly? Come on, you don't believe us, but given that these two institutions that have a bearing on this subject have said that you can't enter the new leadership, I don't know what kind of eyes you're going out on this stands and explain how it's all flowers and roses? Well, no, we don't believe you. We don't believe you're doing this with good intentions. The truth is, you only do it to master a specific structure and nothing more. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u187	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u188	The line of Tosko Yordanov and then Georgi Svilenski. Mr. Nenkov, I did not interrupt you, but part of the speech was an idea away from the topic of the conversation. On the other hand, I appreciate that, for an hour and a half debate, someone mentioned the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2018, which is quite relevant to the case. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A line to Mr. Nenkov, who said that there were friendly, family appointments. So, I have a question for you, Mr. Nenkov. My question is this: Is Julia Nenkova your mother and wasn't she elected head of the KPC during your management 2016, when they managed GERB, and were you then a MP? [[Applause from IHN]] Thank you. [[Applause from IHN and AGE.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u190	Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Yordanov, and that's not on the subject, even though it was started... [[Reply from the National Representative Toshko Yordanov.]] No, it was started, yeah, it was because you said about organ control. There is this moment, so to both of you please, the topic is about Alexander Todorov and his resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u191	Mine's a line to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u192	Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the whole debate this morning is not on the subject. Mr. Nenkov, my reply to you is as follows: You went out and said: "Dear colleagues, we have spent a lot of time on this point. Let us now tell, however, why we are taking this time to let all the MPs and the media know what lies ahead for the National Assembly today and tomorrow. Tomorrow's item one, honourable Members, is the Energy Act. Today there are two meetings of the National Assembly and there should be a Energy Commission among them to adopt the Law eventually at second reading. Here's what's happening, about not having the Energy Commission. [[(Applause from..We continue the Change, BSP for ……]] , no first point tomorrow Energy Act and no lower prices for electricity and fuel for Bulgarian citizens. That's what's happening! Mr. Nenkov, you asked: "What's the hurry, why are they getting fired so quickly? " Well, because you hired them so quickly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u194	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u195	Similarly, March-April last year, when you were leaving, you held all the competitions in all the companies in one month. Well, in the same way, when there are political appointments, there are political dismissals that are normal. If it wasn't political appointments, it wouldn't be political dismissals, so don't cry about it. As quickly as you have appointed them, as quickly, reciprocally, people will be released under the law by the order prescribed in the law. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u196	The third line is Plamen Abrovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u197	Thank you. Colleagues, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Nenkov, I'm telling you again that this debate is absolutely pointless. You are wasting time commenting on a hypothesis that something is a violation, only to confirm what my colleague Svilenski said to waste time! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Once again, we, if we had the desire to lose and make such senseless political advertising, would ask for a hearing as to why the Rural Development Programme was suspended. Because unlike your hypothesis, there is a document that proves that your representative committed a violation of the law. So be so kind as to stop your politics pointlessly. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u198	Mr. Abrovsky, thank you. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Yordanov, I'm not going down to the level you just came down to. Yes, I have been a Member of the National Assembly, but I did not vote, even though I had no conflict of interest. You have a lawyer next to you who you very much like and respect and will tell you whether or not there is a conflict of interest. [[Replications from the MPs Toshko Yordanov and Victoria Vasileva.]] As far as my mother's professional qualities are concerned, I won't comment on it, but you can ask a lot of other people who... [[(Reply from the National Representative Toshko Yordanov: I did not say anything.]] What can I say to you? A man who has walked his way and has much to learn from it. I'm done with this subject because I think it's absolutely wrong to interfere with such relationships. Mr. Svilensky, do you know what the program is today? You voted her out. We, except for the resignation, if we assume that there was no debate on the point, have a view of the Environmental Protection Act, which is important, and the other two points are: Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2020. Is this the program we are going to have to vote on today?! We were gonna be done at 10:00, Mr. Svilensky. But do you know what the saddest thing is, ladies and gentlemen in charge?! You are not in a hurry to watch a budget, you are not in a hurry to take measures for business, you are not in a hurry to look for ways to compensate people for high electricity and gas bills, and you are in a hurry to put people on board and agencies. That's why you're in a hurry! [[Noise and lines on the right.]] What didn't you understand? Let me tell you right in the eye, that's what you're doing! Instead of looking at the State Budget Act today, for example, we are dealing with looking at the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission, notice, for 2020! Extremely on the subject given the severe situation in the country! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u200	Thank you. We'll see the budget as soon as we can, no doubt. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u201	Dear Mr. President, the Programme, which has been voted on, has been examined by the Chairman's Council and there it was not against having the point for CRC reports on operators and post offices. Mr. Nenkov, thanks to your management, the market share of the Bulgarian Post Office has dropped below 6%. Shouldn't this be discussed in this room, in your opinion?! Or because for 12 years you have accepted these reports without discussion, without comments, without suggestions, the Bulgarian Post Offices are facing closure and you are not interested in this and you are interested in an hour and a half to talk about whether a declaration, which is not our business, is true filed or falsely filed. That's why I had the time is small, three points per hour and a half are four and a half hours, then the Energy Commission, second reading of the Energy Act, change of the KEWRC, tomorrow the first point again changes of the KEWRC, change of prices and Bulgarian citizens will see the result of our work. From what we've done today, they won't see a thing. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u202	Colleagues, on the issue of CRC reports, yes, they are from 2020, but since they have not been adopted so far, I think you all know why, we will have to accept them now. We don't have another option. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u203	Mr. Chairman, I suggest we get back to the point and get it over with. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have just allowed this tribune of a non-speaking MP to state that we must hurry, because we will have a Commission on Energy in the afternoon and we will be given a point tomorrow morning. [[Noise and lines from IHN.]] And it's already on the agenda, that's right. You are aware that in the presence of such respected lawyers and parliamentarians with extremely extensive experience in this National Assembly, we will allow another violation of the Rules of Procedure, which we voted on ourselves, all of us as MPs, and in the first place, you have offered it to us by the ruling majority. The report by the Energy Commission will be drawn up within a period which does not meet the terms of the Rules so that the Law can be read at second reading. By the way, so far, no law has been dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which was voted by this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u204	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u205	It's true, Mr. Karimansky! There is not a single report from a public discussion conducted, including regarding the Environmental Act, which we will be looking at at first reading. [[Loud noise and lines from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u206	Mrs. Kirova...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u207	Opinions already held must be attached. The report was not published until just now on the website of the National Assembly. I don't think he's here yet. Let's get back to the point, but let's face it, with so many gluttony lawyers, how we rape these Rules every day that we have voted ourselves!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u208	Mrs. Kirova, no such verbs. Otherwise, for the Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection, yesterday it was on the site, I personally checked.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u209	He's gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u210	Okay, I'll show it to you myself. Mrs. Vasileva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I understand why Einstein was hesitant about what is more endless about the universe or human stupidity! It's obvious: human nonsense! Because we took two hours to comment on a declaration consisting of two pages, of which, however, colleagues from GERB and DPS have read only the first page. An extremely meaningful debate for two hours, extremely true and accurate things have been said, but what needs to be made clear is that all this roar is because it stops the tap! The heavy drought and thirst for colleagues from the two parliamentary groups is beginning, so it is all the time to explain now how there are violations of the law, procedures have been violated. The people in this room have told you a thousand times: there are organs that will determine whether the law has been violated. This room is not a tribunal! [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u212	Thank you. Mr. Hamid for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u213	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Vassileva, if Einstein even thought for a moment that there would be an IHN in this National Assembly and you would do such nonsense, he wouldn't have hesitated about some little universe! [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u214	Mr. Hamid, please! For a replica "Alexander Nenkov."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Vassileva, you forget very quickly. This is very typical when you enter the department and start to quickly forget. [[Replication by National Representative Victoria Vasileva.]] I do remember, though, the Forty-Fiveth and Sixth National Assembly had a... although it was very humiliating short, not to mention why? [[It's not because of us!]] Yeah, yeah. It is clear that it is due to 12 years of management of GERB, that is why forty-fifth and forty-sixth National Assembly failed, but on the topic. Mrs. Vasileva, don't you remember that there were committees here, revisions. Wasn't parliament then turned into a tribunal?! Or am I wrong? You forget very quickly, Mrs. Vassileva, very quickly! [[Replication by National Representative Victoria Vasileva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u216	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. I can't see a third line. For the back, would you like some? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u217	Mr. Nenkov, yes, you're right. There were committees that issued qualifications. Fortunately, the people who presided over these committees are no longer in this National Assembly. Thank you. [[(Loud noise. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u218	Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. We're going to vote on the official draft decision. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u220	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u222	Desislava Taneva? Desislava Taneva didn't vote, okay. Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u224	Inna Ivanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u226	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u228	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u230	Tsvetan Enchev? Okay. 127 MPs voted in the House and 6 MPs online.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u231	Can I have a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u232	Just a second. The votes in Hall 125 and 6 online are 131 total, not against, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. There's a request for a re-vote. We're overreacting. Please, voting mode. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Yes, yes, I've given it to you straight away, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u233	I'd like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u234	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u235	There is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u236	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u237	There is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u238	No, no, you won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u239	For you, Mr. President, I understand that there is no need, but still what is happening in the National Assembly, I believe that this platform should be clear. Mr. Chairman, I'm taking a re-voting procedure and I'd like to argue. I haven't been able to vote, Mr. Chairman, and that's why I want a re-vote. Because my colleague Ikonomov next to me and other colleagues, I saw that they voted without biometric data. I'm pushing my button and I think I'm gonna vote like them. But it turns out my console requires biometrics. [[Loud noise.]] Come check it out! Mr. Ikonomov, you see, I showed it to you. Colleagues, if we're going to run biometrics here on a selective basis, I'm sorry, where are we at?! It's outrageous! I want a re-vote so I can vote as well as the rest of my fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u240	You have the re-vote, Mr. Karadaye. I've been informed that the biometrics for this vote have not been released to anyone. Here's Mr. Ikonomov next to you. Mr. Ikonomov, don't forget to vote and then check Mr. Karadayi. [[(Loud noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Mustafa Karadaye: You will not lie, it is not good to lie! (Applause from the DPS.)]] No such qualifications to me, including. [[Lowered noise and lines from DPS. A line from the MP Mustafa Karadaye.]] Mrs. Vassileva, is there a problem there? [[Replication by National Representative Victoria Vasileva. Replies from the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi.]] Mr. Karadaye, please. Cancel this procedure that is currently underway. [[Replication by National Representative Victoria Vasileva.]] Voting mode. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u242	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u244	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u246	Inna Ivanova? Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u248	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u250	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u252	Inna Ivanova? I can't hear you. Vote 149 MPs in the House and online 6, total 155 voted MPs: 148 in the House plus 6 online, total 144, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO COMPLETION THE COMMISSION'S CONFIGURATION WITH THE RIGHTS OF HUMAN, VEROIZATION AND COMPLAINTS OF CIVILITY. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u253	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 18, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Milen Iliev Mateev as a member of the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u254	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I am opening the discussion on the presented project. There aren't any people who want to make a statement. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. Voting mode. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u256	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u258	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u260	Inna Ivanova? Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u262	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u264	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u265	Yeah. They voted 132 MPs in the Chamber and online 6, total 138 voted MPs: for 129 in the House plus 6 online, they became 135, against none, abstentioned 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point three: The first vote of the Law on Modification and Complement of the Law on ENVIRONMENT. A report from the Environment and Water Commission on the first vote on the bill has been received. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u266	Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act No 47-102-01-3 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021. At a meeting held on 20 January 2022, the Environment and Water Committee discussed that bill. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Environment and Waters, Nikolay Sijimov, Deputy Minister; Mihaela Dotsova, Director of the Department of Legal Affairs; Mladen Grammatikov, Director of the Directorate of Ecological Assessment, Environmental Impact Assessment and Prevention; Teodora Jeleva, Head of the Department of Complex Permits and Dangerous Substances and the same Directorate; Teodora Valkova, State Expert in the same Department; Alexandra Vetskova, State Expert in the Directorate of Coordination of European Union Affairs and International Cooperation and representative of the Bulgarian Industrial Association. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by Deputy Minister Nikolay Sijimov. The Bill aims to improve environmental protection legislation and to achieve a higher level of harmonisation with European industrial emissions legislation, environmental impact assessment of certain public and private projects and the control of major accident hazards involving dangerous substances. The proposed amendments reflect the recommendations and remarks concerning the initiation of infringement procedures concerning the incorrect transposition of some of the provisions of the Directives into the areas cited above. A right of access to justice, which complies with the requirements of Directive 2003-35/EC to ensure public participation in the preparation of certain plans and programmes relating to the environment, shall be ensured. The suspension after 31 December 2025 of the State's liability for the removal of environmental damage caused by past actions or omissions in privatisation shall be regulated. Deleting and detecting deficiencies and improving the procedures laid down in the Law under Chapter 7, increasing publicity, uniformising the concepts and wordings used in the Law with those of the current European and national regulations. The functions of the individual administrations in the composition of the Ministry of Environment and Water, related to the implementation of major accident prevention policies and to complex pollution prevention and control, shall be divided. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. No comments were received from interested parties at the Environment and Water Commission. Attitudes on the submitted bill took the MPs Mladen Shishkov, Nikolay Nankov and Erjan Ebatin, who spoke against dropping the appeal of an instance of the decisions on environmental impact assessment and environmental assessment for objects of national importance. Mr. Ivo Atanasov noted that these texts between first and second reading should be carefully considered. Opinions in full support of the bill expressed the MPs Alexander Dunchev, Miroslava Petrova, Emil Georgiev and Zornitsa Stratieva. It was stressed that it should be analysed who is actually delaying the trial, how delayed the projects are and whether there are appeals without a serious breach of the public interest. Mr. Stefan Shilev expressed concern regarding the separation of functions between the two competent authorities..... the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Executive Environment Agency............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ During the public discussion the representative of the Bulgarian Industrial Association expressed an opinion in support of the bill. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 10 votes for the Environmental Protection Act, No 47-102-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Environmental Protection Act, No 47-102-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u267	Thank you, Mr. Genov. There is also a report on the draft by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Please, Mr. Mateev, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I present: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 47-102-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021. At its regular meeting on 19 January 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 47-102-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mr. Toma Belev Deputy Minister, Mr. Mladen Grammatikov, Director of the Department of Environmental Assessment, Environmental Impact Assessment and Prevention, Mrs. Mihaela Dotsova, Director of Legal Directorate, and Mrs. Alexandra Vetzkova, State Expert at the Directorate of the European Union Coordination and International Cooperation. The bill was presented by Mr. Thomas Belev, who pointed out that the draft law aims to refine provisions in national legislation relating to environmental protection and achieve a higher level of harmonisation with European legislation. The proposed changes will ensure the participation of civil society in the preparation of certain plans and programmes relating to the environment, thereby ensuring greater publicity and guaranteeing the right of access to justice of stakeholders. The legislative initiative limits the responsibility of the State for removing environmental damage caused by past actions or inactions in privatisation and specifies the functions of individual administrations in the Ministry of Environment and Water related to major accident prevention and more complex pollution prevention and control policies. It is also proposed to improve procedures in relation to industrial pollution, increase publicity and refine the regulatory concepts used. The Deputy Minister of Environment and Water stressed that the contribution to the drafting of the Bill has four governments and the main purpose of the legislative initiative is the correct introduction of the requirements of three directives in Bulgarian legislation, adding that they have initiated a criminal procedure against the Republic of Bulgaria. He pointed out that in addition to the full and precise implementation of the requirements of the directives, proposals are contained in the Draft Law aimed at improving the regulatory framework and removing certain regulatory discrepancies in the Environmental Protection Act. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Nikolina Angelkova, Branimir Balachev, Iva Miteva, Andrei Mihaylov, Atanas Slavov and Milen Mateev. In response to Ms. Angelkova and Mr. Mihailov's questions, the Deputy Minister pointed out that the proposed removal of the single-station proceedings in appeal of the environmental impact assessment is an issue that is open and it is appropriate to discuss between the two votes. In response to Mr. Slavov's question, Mr. Belev pointed out that the environment is the sector with the most excited criminal procedures against the Republic of Bulgaria, adding that the adoption of the draft law will achieve a complete and precise introduction of three directives, namely for the complex prevention and control of pollution in relation to the environmental impact assessment and in relation to the control of major accidents. The President of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs Mr. Matteev and Mrs. Iva Miteva said that they supported the legislative initiative, adding that part of the provisions should be refined and brought into line with the Law on Legislative Acts and the Decree on its implementation between the two amendments to the Bill. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, with 13 votes for the Environment Act, No 47-102-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021, proposed to the National Assembly the adoption of a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection, No 47-102-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u269	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Dear Minister, please come in for an opinion from an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u270	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you have heard in the reports of the two portfolio committees, this bill aims to harmonise the Bulgarian legislation with the European and its main objective is to drop three criminal procedures against Bulgaria in the Environment sector. I remind you that, although in parliamentary control, I have explained specifically and each one separately, Bulgaria has 16 criminal procedures in the environment sector, some of which require harmonisation of European legislation in order to secure these legal guarantees both for civil society and for the prevention of accidents and liability, based on the principle of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I call on you to support this bill. I remind you that he was prepared by the GERB government, was subsequently discussed in the next two official governments by being submitted by the last caretaker government. The Ministry of Environment and Water has opted to proceed with this bill and you have to accept it at this stage precisely for the purpose of falling down of the five criminal procedures. Some of the other amendments that we have provided for will be put to your attention at the next stage, as provided for by the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly, after a certain period of time has passed. However, these three criminal procedures, which we could prevent from reaching criminal cases in the Court of Justice in Luxembourg, should also show the European Commission the will of the new government for actions that are precisely in line with European legislation and guaranteeing environmental safety, environmental protection and the health of the population. Between first and second reading it is possible to make certain changes for which, of course, you have the will. For example, we have reservations from the Ministry of Environment and Water as regards part of the Draft Law, which is beyond harmonisation with European legislation, in relation to criminal procedures, namely the powers that the Ministry would have, taking part of them from the Executive Environment Agency, but this is subject to discussion at the next stage. It is also my call to make the short procedure between first and second readings precisely with a view to showing the European Commission that we have the will to act in this direction. I note: The European Commission has reason to raise other new criminal procedures in relation to the failure of certain commitments by the Republic of Bulgaria which occurred in the last year. I call on you to support this bill as it has happened in the Commission! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u271	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm opening the discussion on the bill. To speak, Jevdet Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u272	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The MRF will support at first reading The draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection, because it amends provisions in implementing recommendations and remarks of the services of the European Commission in relation to ongoing criminal procedures, as pointed out by you, Mr. Minister, and with the harmonisation and full transposition of several directives. The provisions in force are also improved with a view to identified problems in the implementation of the Law. Therefore, in essence, the bill is European integration and should be supported. It also improves a very important regulation, namely the prevention of major accidents with dangerous substances, and the powers return to the Minister of Environment and Water. In a respect of correctness, I would like to point out that when these texts were changed, I repeatedly and strongly expressed the position of the DPS that we object to the transfer, in these cases, of the Minister's responsibility to the Director of the Executive Environment and Water Agency. This happened during the time of Minister Nona Karadjova. It was not right and it is evident that the functionality must be corrected and responsibility must be where the principal is in principle. A step in the right direction is provided for prior notification by the operator of the undertaking or the facility of the director of the respective pool director when a major accident is expected to affect surface or groundwater or water sites. The lack of preventive information to the competent water management authority so far has always been a significant omission. It is of the view that, after 31 December 2025, when the programmes for the removal of the environmental damage caused by past actions or inactions in privatisation have been completed, the completion of the implementation of all non-started or incomplete implementation measures by the terminated programmes is a responsibility and is at the expense of the buyer of the privatisation transaction and the privatisation company or the persons subsequently acquired ownership of the company. This ensures the implementation of the measures and the restoration of the environmental situation. We have some serious notes of our own. There are texts in which the most accurate legal expression is not really found. It is also necessary to discuss whether it is appropriate to drop the abridged appeal in cases, and I stress that it is relevant for the implementation of national and strategic sites. I will give you an example: is it pointed out, for example, by the present majority and by the government, that they intend to tunnel under Shipka? Why should the procedure be extended? Why such important national strategic sites should be extended the procedure when, in principle, from a legal point of view, this could rule, as it is now, and thus speed up both the investment process and the realization of such projects. In principle, we should bear in mind here that we should go to support both the realization of such national strategic sites of national importance, and also simplify business activity, especially in this difficult situation, and not return to retrograde policies and complexity. This does not mean that there will be no legal element in integrity. However, on these issues, we could find a solution between first and second readings, with us from the DPS parliamentary group members of this committee committed ourselves to making more proposals. And in conclusion, due to the fact that the Bill is predominantly European integration and offers a solution to existing problems and gaps in the current regulations, the parliamentary group of the DPS will support this bill at first reading with a view to overcoming criminal procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. For a line? I can't see. To make a statement, Mladen Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u274	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The bill could basically be divided into two parts, with the first part, as has been said, concerning transposition of European directives, harmonisation of European legislation in relation to criminal procedures. In this part we, as a parliamentary group, have no comments and will generally support it. However, we strongly object to the texts provided for in paragraphs 8 and 9.............................................................. What are our motives? Firstly, no clear and precise arguments for this return have been applied to the reasons of the Bill. We also did not hear these during the Commission meeting, although questions were addressed to the representatives of the Ministry. The lifting of such progress in the precision of these sites is, in our view, a retreat from already achieved with many efforts and long public discussions norm. Secondly, I recall that, under the pressure of some NGOs of this law, a veto has been imposed. The President brought him back for a new discussion in the Chamber, after which the Law was examined quite thoroughly, with a long discussion and the veto was overcome by a huge majority. And in order not to be misunderstood, I have nothing against the NGO to be clear about. On the contrary, I am a member myself, but I am against those who are trying to parasite on the back of the country at the expense of Bulgarian citizens. Three. I remind you that the amendment was necessary in order to proceed more quickly with the subjects of national importance, as well as those of strategic importance. Taking into account the requests made by the current government regarding a change of highway route, if you will, or for a redesign of the highway, it means that, in practice, these projects, as requested by the end of 2030. One term in the foreseeable future will become unfulfilled. And from the foreseeable future it will be shifted into an unattainable future, because these estimates are made on the basis of current legislation. If the amendments proposed at the moment are adopted, we are practically blocking all investment projects, and I will not even open a word about the four bridges of the Danube and the three tunnels under Shipka, which have already become clear that they will not become either during this term, but most likely during the next. My fellow Members, during the Commission, I took the liberty of making an appeal to younger colleagues not to enter this trap. My words have not been taken into account because some of my colleagues have spoken quite emotionally. But bear in mind that it is not particularly important for us as opposition whether the texts will be adopted or rejected because we no longer have responsibility for how the state is developing. We are not responsible for the development of infrastructure. Your responsibility is now your responsibility and any delay every day slows down in terms of building the infrastructure is a loss of human lives. My call to you is: do not support this text so that we do not lose any more lives! In conclusion, I will only say that we will abstain from supporting this bill in the first vote, and naturally, we will make our proposals between the first and second votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u275	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Totev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u276	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Shishkov, we haven't had a chance to look at this bill in our committee. I think that these are the paragraphs 8 and 9 that would be quite interesting for our committee and at all for the debate in it. As you have said, this largely stops the investment process, and rather the investment process by the state, and in particular the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. I am using the case that Mr. Yordanov is in the Chamber and I would be very happy to hear Minister Karadjov's opinion on this. From Dr. Chakarov's statements and the reports we have heard from the committees, the subject has obviously also made an impression on the colleagues in them. So we will make our proposals between first and second readings. I hope this will be stopped because it largely blocks all the work of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in this term. Colleagues from "There is such a people" should be aware and communicate with Minister Karadjov, as the tying of the hands of this ministry will affect not only the political party. There is such a people. Its investment process in this four-year term will affect not only the political party. Thank you for sharpening your attention here. I repeat, and Mr. Yordanov sat down, so I will tell him: what we are talking about § 8 and § 9, comment with Minister Karadzhov, because if the work of the Ministry is accepted, it will be blocked for four years. Comment with him! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u277	Thank you, Mr. Totev. Any other lines? Zornitsa Stratieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to remind you that the one-off proceedings in the Environmental Protection Act were adopted in 2017 in two attempts by the National Assembly and this created an extremely wrong practice. The claim that double-installed production will delay environmental impact assessment procedures is not true because problems concern alienation procedures. There is a delay in the sites that represent national importance. Owners appeal the assessments and this is a practice that has been established throughout Europe. Environmental impact assessments concern the whole society, while alienation procedures concern only owners whose sites are located in their territory. That is why we from "Democratic Bulgaria" will support the Bill in its current form and we believe that the two-installed production is not a problem that will delay the investment intentions that qualify as national sites. There's not even a list that says which objects are of national importance, this list is constantly changing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. Third line? I won't. For a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Shishkov, I would like to ask you about the fact that the sites that are prioritized as strategically important with national importance and are appealed to one instance, are there sufficient procedures to protect the appeal and that this is certainly regulated? Because, in principle, as far as I know, these sites have passed all coordination procedures, including the notification stages of the competent authorities, the population concerned, assessment of the need for EIA, public consultation reports, thereby ensuring public participation, which is a mandatory and essential part of the EIA procedure. In fact, tell me: at the moment are there really such procedures from the intention to decide on the implementation, and ultimately the decisions taken to determine the sites of national importance are not the subject of the Council of Ministers, are they not voted by an act of the Council of Ministers to be defined as such, are they ultimately protected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u281	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Totev, this bill was not really reviewed by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, which I think is some kind of omission of parliament's leadership. It to a large extent concerns the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, so I hope that they will present some opinion between first and second readings. Otherwise, Mr. Totev, you very rightly pointed out that the colleagues from "There is such a people" during the meeting expressed their concerns about these texts and I hope that they will be with this note of reason which will be submitted to the ruling coalition because, again, I say, this is in their favour, not in favour of the opposition. With regard to the colleague Stratieva from "Yes, Bulgaria!" I do not agree that the two-station production will not delay the processes. On the contrary, in order for these changes to be made in 2017, there was reason to do so at the time, namely: the excessive delay in these processes for some objects of national importance. So there was a reason to accept this norm. I hope it will be preserved in the future. And in response to Mrs. Alexiev, yes, there are, of course, sufficient procedures to provide for public participation in the entire decision-making process with regard to EIA and environmental assessment, so the public is protected. There is no problem from the announcement of the investment intention until the adoption of the EIA they will be direct participants, including through first instance appeals. So people are protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u283	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u284	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think it's important that I take the floor to make a few specifics. First of all, the representatives of GERB say that they have no responsibility and visible from their absence from the Chamber clearly have no responsibility. But it is precisely because of their irresponsibility that we are in these three criminal procedures and the attempt at the moment to glamour the behaviour and the statement that they will vote against or abstain shows continuing irresponsibility in this part. As for the example given in relation to the highway, I do not know how well you are aware. The experience that GERB is trying to make by introducing a coliseum or an attempt to split into the ruling coalition, thus involving such a people with the topic, shows this same irresponsibility with regard to the highway. For your information, the route that is not completed on the Struma Highway is not finished because of EIA.. EIA has at the very beginning for the entire route of the Struma Highway but it has provided for two different alternatives for crossing the segment from Simitli to Kresna. GERB's government is trying to realize the zero alternative or third alternative for which there is no EIA, and regardless of the one-installed production, which has been introduced further by them, it has not been realised. The segment between Simitli and Kresna actually had to be realized first from this comprehensive project for the highway "Struma" because it is the most challenging. It was not only not realized first, it was not realized until the end, because the attempt to change the route has dragged Bulgaria into breach of the assessment of the European Commission and the Bern Convention. I just want one last clamp on the subject of Struma, because it was set as an example. The idea of a tunnel, for example, through Struma Highway, was with the excavation of the tunnel to pour the rest of the highway close by. Apparently, this was not profitable for certain interests that otherwise produce material and sell it. Maybe that's it. I hope there are other reasonable arguments, but at least I haven't heard them. As for the one-installed and two-installed proceedings, there is a precedent in the Bulgarian court proceedings for more than 100 years and for the first time this practice is introduced by the government of GERB to have only one instance in relation to the judicial procedure, and only for procedures related to environmental protection. Isn't that a little weird?! Isn't it a little strange, given that this type of overall procedure requires a number of other actions for which bi-instant production continues to apply, but not with regard to EIA?! Not only does it sound strange, but I think that for a country such as Bulgaria, which has a claim to be the rule of law, it is not logical to have an exception, because these exceptions will lead to new exceptions in the future and such practice can be very bad. There are comments in this direction, by the way, from externally reputable institutions and organizations. The Ministry of Environment and Water has envisaged easing the procedures in their assessment to alleviate this process. Separate relief and optimization of judicial procedures will also lead to such shortening of time limits. However, let's be honest with each other, it is not the environmental impact assessment and it is not the extraordinary law enforcement in relation to the proceedings that will solve the issues of national importance. But this, of course, is a topic for between first and second readings. Once again, it would be irresponsible if we did not support this project in the part relating to criminal procedures. Of course, between first and second readings you have the right to make the other comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u285	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you didn't seem to have heard my introduction. I have made it clear that we support the harmonisation and transposition of directives. There won't be any problems there. You have our full support, all the more so that it became clear that this was prepared during the management of GERB. However, we have a remark regarding what you said about Struma. You yourself, during the Commission meeting, said that there was an Environmental Impact Assessment for the current route. That's exactly what you said! Take the transcript and you'll see it! So let me get this straight: is there, or is there no Environmental Impact Assessment? And finally, in terms of the practice that we have introduced, it is actually a practice that is longstanding. It is also in the other legislation concerning construction, there is a new Law on construction of the territory. 25, para. 7 provides that such objects of national importance are to be appealed in one instance. So there is such a practice and it is active. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u287	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Tatiana Sultanova and then DPS were recorded for speech. Here you are, Mrs. Sultanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u288	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, thank you for your last speech. As we have already understood, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act aims at full compliance with the European Commission's recommendations and remarks on infringement procedures already launched against Bulgaria under three European directives on industrial emissions, on the Environmental Impact Assessment of certain public private projects, on the control of major accident hazards involving dangerous substances. In order to quickly end these infringement procedures and prevent them from entering a judicial phase, we support this project in substance. Regarding the additional provisions tabled by the Bill, we will continue to discuss the texts in their expert and pragmatic section and, if necessary, we will submit proposals for changes between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u289	Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova. - What's the line? I can't see. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u290	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We at the Commission have examined the upcoming changes to the Environmental Protection Act. There is no doubt that this is about harmonisation with proposals tabled as a recommendation by the European Commission. And in this regard, as Dr. Chakarov said, we will support these changes. As you know, the Commission's dispute concerned this about the national significant sites, how many instances can be appealed to. These nationally significant sites shall be designated by the Council of Ministers. And tell me now, as a Member of the National Assembly from Varna, how long will it take to build a highway? And I ask another question: if this is about harmonizing the legislation on a recommendation from the European Commission, is the law not in this part harmonised the interests of certain NGOs when it changes in this way to pass from one instance, to become a two-instant appeal? I have such doubts. And allow me these doubts to be justified, because we are talking about nationally significant objects. These nationally significant sites shall be designated by the Council of Ministers. How will hemus highway be built and how will it be finished when we increase the instances through which these nationally significant sites will be appealed?! It will never become the highway "Hemus " not only it, but also other motorways! Infrastructural projects will not be built! After all, at the moment you are managing and you are deciding which are the nationally significant objects. Let's make these nationally significant objects really... They are therefore nationally important because they affect the interests of hundreds, thousands of citizens, millions of citizens and are above the interests of a certain group of people who want to appeal. The argument that the appeal must, for example, seek some reason and transfer the glove to the court is not a parliamentary issue at all! We cannot affect an independent institution, we are dealing with legislation here. Let us make sure that these nationally significant objects are indeed a priority of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u291	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. There's a line from Miroslava Petrova first and then Zornitsa Stratieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u292	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There will be a change, there is already a change thanks to the management of our coalition government, where, we all know here, we treat each other with exceptional respect, the opinion of our coalition partners. There will be a change, including with regard to the projects of strategic importance so important for the country, and I assure you that they will be processed, apart from planned, authorized, implemented within the time limit under all conditions of legality. There will be no change without panic, no stress in terms of the so important progress for the country, which for 12 years has been left in a completely destitute situation. And in conclusion, I would like to remind and emphasise that we are continuing the Change and its coalition partners clearly respect the agenda of society, including in terms of serious infrastructure projects so important to the country and not the agenda, I remind you of a quote: those who have proposed me for this post, as once said a minister from a third government to former rulers. [[Is that a line?]] Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u293	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. I remind you, the lines address the main statement. Mrs. Stratieva, second line. And the third one, Krum Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u294	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ebatine, I would like you to give me examples and exactly how many sites have been delayed because of an appeal at the second instance of EIA? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. And now Krum Zarkov is the last line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u296	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ebatin, you have rightly divided your speech into two.. one is the euro demands which have not been met and which could make us punished... this is something that we discussed with the Minister; and the other is the issue of appeals. As early as 2017, when the then mass majority recoded the opportunity to appeal the first instance proceedings, we at BSP were against this thing and even went to the Constitutional Court with it. Then the argument was what you point out, namely that this, if you see, will slow down the construction process. However, the truth is that this causal relationship is not clear at all. There's no such thing! There is not a single argument to say that, you see, the production in two branches of administrative proceedings in administrative law will delay unwarrantedly the projects for a long time. There is also a question of a legal nature that you understand. The current situation allows the Council of Ministers, whoever it is, with a decision which object is of national importance to decide what the judicial control will be, which will be exercised. And that's not right, you can't not understand it. Finally, the delay in construction in Bulgaria is not as much due to the legal proceedings as the fact that it is very often carried out non-for-horse and under schemes! In this order of thought it may be the opposite that the more guarantees there are for legal design, distribution of funds and construction, the faster these national sites will become, not vice versa. Therefore, I suggest that we support the Bill at first reading and continue, naturally, on each of its details, the debate at second. But there is no connection between people's access to justice and the speed of construction. And it's not true that anyone who goes to trial does it for a vicious purpose to chicane. There are cases like this, but that's not the principle. The demand is also European and there may also be a criminal procedure that must have access to a court, and that is precisely: the more important the subject is, the more secure we must be that everything is correct. [[the President signals that time has run out]] [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u297	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Does Mr. Ebatine have a wish for a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u298	The only substantial argument I heard from Mr. Krum Zarkov. He is a lawyer and has legal justification for having this legal thesis. I agree with this hypothesis that you have expressed. But let me have this hypothesis that you're making, there's another side to it, because the two-way appeal in time is going to drag on anyway. Provided that I have the right to represent the interests of certain citizens and this is not in their interest, we have the right to have another opinion. And since the previous National Assembly has voted on such a change in the Law, this amendment to the Law is in no way consistent with just one party. It is primarily in line with the interests of millions of Bulgarian citizens who want infrastructure projects of national importance, which are important to them, to be realized faster. If this were not a hypothesis, this proposal would not have passed in the previous parliament and would not have been discussed at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u299	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u300	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ebatine, you have suggested that only non-governmental organisations can appeal decisions related to environmental impact assessment. That's not true. And I don't see what a self-interest a non-governmental organization would have in stopping a project, what material interest it would have had. If you think that any such organization, whoever it is, is working not in the public interest, there are mechanisms to verify this. But the suggestion that non-governmental organisations do not form part of civil society or that only they can appeal is incorrect. And I'll just give you one example. I don't know about any project of national importance that's been delayed because of two-in-a-day production for so long or any national project with one-in-a-station production has been decided. And I'll give you an example in this direction. Is the interconnector connection, because of which in Bulgaria the gas could be at much better prices at the moment, delayed because of EIA? No, it is not. And we, if we want to remove all other obstacles that would slow down such national projects, stay only on In House and remove all opportunities related to competition, with the rule of law, is not correct to use this as an argument. In fact, the environmental impact assessment is the only instrument through which society as a whole, not only non-governmental organisations, has the opportunity to express its opinion and defend its right to access to justice when it concerns it directly. Because these objects could directly affect people's health. The environmental impact assessment shall be carried out at an early stage of production. It is not the last instance, it is not the end when everything else is ready to delay a project. Please don't make these suggestions! But anyway, at second reading, I'm sure we'll have a deeper debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u301	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Atanasov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u302	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We see that the documents to the Bill lack the opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. For me this is extremely important because through this ministry will move the so-called national sites that fall into the hypothesis, I think the paragraphs 8 and 9 were. I can tell you from practical experience here about national sites. We need to look at art. 127 of LUT in connection with Art. 215, the last paragraph,... which proceedings are unified, concerning the general planning, detailed planning and so on, not to go into the specifics. We're facing the same hypothesis here. I can tell you from practical experience that an appeal, when the general and detailed planning was at two instances before an administrative court and before the Supreme Administrative Court, lasted between three and four years. There are: ways not to import fees, notifications only last in the order of five or six months, separate appointments before the Supreme Administrative Court. This is my view that there is no violation of any regulation which violates the rights of citizens, and we do not have such a violation in the Constitution. If there is, please explain to me who they are. I believe that for the national sites, I express my personal opinion, we should have an appeal in just one instance, because otherwise I am setting an example with the highway "Hemus": Mr. Karadjov said that there is no EIA there for some of the departments. Imagine: with one complaint against EIA three or four years this section cannot be extended. If I am not mistaken, the same applies to the section of Vidin Botevgrad in the part of Ruzhintsi "Montana," it can still come to three or four years of appeals. The rights of citizens and stakeholders have not been violated in any way. This is my motive for speaking in both the Commission and here at the National Assembly for the single-station appeal of EIA assessments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u303	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u304	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I'm not going into a debate on the second part of the bill, and we're going to fight him out loud at second reading. It occurred to me that you all unanimously agree with the first part of the European legislation. I keep thinking that we are a sovereign state and we have the right to move more or less from European legislation. Whether it is beneficial for Bulgaria or not, a directive is coming down from Europe, which we are all voting together here for. This isn't right for me! [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Mr. Ananiev, please! Recently in Poland, you know, a ruling of their Constitutional Court came out that their legislation is above European law! Isn't that right? Why can't we invoke this precedent? For this reason, we are going to vote abstention on this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u305	Thank you, Mr. Ruschev. - What's the line? I can't see. I don't see any other speeches. I'm putting an end to the discussion on the bill. We move on to the first vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental Emptying, No 47-102-01-3, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021, supported by the Committee on Environment and Water and by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u306	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u307	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u309	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u311	Inna Yordanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u313	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u315	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u316	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u317	Tsvetan Enchev? Votes in this House 134 MPs and online 6 s become 140 MPs: for 123 in the Chamber plus 4 online, total 127, against no, abstention 11 in the Chamber plus 2 online, total 13. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kullensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u318	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be extended from seven to 14 days for proposals between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u319	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Petar Kullenski. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u320	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u321	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u323	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u325	Inna Yordanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u327	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u329	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u331	Tsvetan Enchev? Voted in this House 137 MPs and online 6, total 143 MPs voted: 135 plus 5 online, 140 total, no objection, no 2 abstentions in this House plus 1 online, total 3. The proposal has been adopted. The deadline for a proposal between first and second readings on this bill is 14 days. Goodbye, Minister. Procedure? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 57, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly make a procedural proposal for termination of the sitting at the moment. Please be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u333	A proposal has been made by the parliamentary group of "There is such a people." Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u334	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u335	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u337	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u339	Inna Yordanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u341	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u343	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u344	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u345	Tsvetan Enchev? Vote in the House 140 MPs and online 6, 146 total: 117 in the House plus 4 online, 121 in total, against 13 and online 2, 15 abstentioned 10. The motion is accepted. I'm adjourned. The remaining items on the agenda will be included in the Programme for the National Assembly's work further. [[PHONE RINGING]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u346	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please register. I'm informing you that the biometrics have been released, so we have to register in this way. There are 198 MPs registered. There's a quorum. I'm opening the emergency session. [[PHONE RINGING]] On 24 January 2022, by virtue of art. 78, p. 2 of the Constitution and Article 2 of the Constitution. 40, para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly called the extraordinary plenary session of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly on 26 January 2022 at 15:30 on the following agenda: Point one. Hearing of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Heads of the SANS, the DAR and Military Intelligence in connection with the conflict Russia, the tensions of NATO, the Russian Federation and the role of Bulgaria in the decision-making process in NATO on the topics, as well as the deployment of Allied Armed Forces in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In view of the persons described for hearing, please vote to be admitted to the Chamber the following persons: Brigadier General Venelin Venev, Director of the Military Intelligence Service, Plamen Tonchev, Chairman of the State Agency of National Security, Antoine Gechev, Chairman of the State Agency of Intelligence, and Irena Dimitrova, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please vote, fellow Members, on the proposal. They voted 201 MPs: for 201, against and abstention there is no. I would only ask that Admiral Emil Eftimov be present and the Chief of Staff, please vote and that he be invited to the Chamber. [[Reply: Chief of Defense.]] Chief of Defense, I'm sorry. Vote 191 MPs: for 191, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Thank you. Now we can move on to: HEARING THE MINISTER, THE MINISTER OF THE DANCE, THE MINISTER OF THE CONFLICATION, THE MINISTER OF THE OUTSIDE WORKS AND THE HELPERS OF THE DANS, THE DAR AND THE MILK DISCLOSURE OF THE CONFLICATION OF RUSSIA Importers: Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 24 January 2022. Just to clarify: after the development of the question on the part of the importer, the heard persons will have the floor to make their statement and then we will move on to questions. First of all, to the members of the Council of Ministers, two rounds of questions to each member of the Council of Ministers, will take turns: one round of questions to Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, one round of questions to the Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev, one round of questions to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Teodora Genchovska. Then again: a round of questions to the Prime Minister, a round of questions to the Minister of Defence and a round of questions to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The parliamentary groups will then be able to express their attitude. Finally, if there are any questions to the other persons mentioned in the request for a hearing, I propose that the questions to them be held in a closed session. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov. For procedure or for development? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u347	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I'm still going to ask the House to change order. My proposal is this: firstly, let each of the ministers make his statement as it is in the regulation, then close the meeting, listen to the reports of the services and then go to an open session where we can ask questions. It is simply from a logical point of view that it is really more important to hear the ministers from the point of view of their political statements. Then let's hear the experts with the specific information and finally ask questions and have an attitude. I think that would be a lot more comprehensive. Time does not comment on it, but so there will be much more logic in asking questions themselves by hearing the whole set of information.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u348	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Whoever from the ministers wants to expose something, we're not stopping anyone, so... We'll hear about the services when the questions are closed. Either way, you mentioned reports, but we're not here to listen to reports, so we'll hear them in specific information questions. Hristo Gadget, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u349	Dear Prime Minister, ministers, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Chairman! Procedure in the manner of conduct, as I think you did not realize what my colleague Nenkov offered you. As soon as the ministers' exhibits pass, the meeting will be closed so that the reports of the representatives of the services can be heard and then we can move on to questions and answers. Because listening further to the services afterwards, after we have finished the part, it will help the MPs to ask more up-to-date questions. It's kind of logical, that's the way it is. And therefore I am making this procedural proposal to arrange the sitting in this way. And separately, though, if we're going to have a closed session, you have to put it to a vote, because without voting a closed session, there's no way it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u350	That's right, Mr. Gadget. Thank you. First of all, let us vote on my proposal, as it does include a proposal for a closed part of the meeting, which should be voted on and then Hristo Gajev's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u351	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u352	Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u353	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, colleagues! We don't have to be in different positions each time. The questions we're going to ask the services may be contained in the exhibition. Who needs us to prepare questions whose answers may be contained inside? It is quite simple to let both the ministers and the services be before the questions, because I have not prepared a question, for example, waiting to hear the exhibitions. Probably a lot of other colleagues, too. It makes perfect sense. There is nothing to back down. The better will take place, and more useful, the sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u354	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u355	Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, Mr. Chairman! Perhaps there is a reason in what Mr. Tsonev and GERB said, but the moment we hear the services indoors, the questions should be indoors. [[Noise and lines.]] Because if they use information that was provided in the closed session, then there is no way to answer questions about information that we received in the closed session.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u356	Okay, Mr. Tsonev, just to clarify, your proposal is more similar to Alexander Nenkov's proposal. After listening to the members of the Council of Ministers, let's listen to the President of the DANS, the Chairman of the DAR and the Service of Military Intelligence.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u357	It's closed again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u358	Closed again, even for the members of the Council of Ministers? So you keep it indoors and this part, okay. Just a second, we'll sort it out. After the members of the Council of Ministers to be completely shut down until the end. This is Yordan Tsonev's proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Nenkov, on your part, after we finish the hearing of the members of the Council of Ministers behind closed doors, we listen to the representatives of the services and then the questions to the members of the Council of Ministers are at an open session and we end and there are no questions to the services at all. Mr. Gazhev, if you could just remind me of yours. Yours was identical to Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u359	Dear Mr. Chairman, to make it clear, though. Firstly, what we are proposing is that the ministers' expositions go into an open part, the exhibits of the representatives of the services in an enclosed part. If there are any questions to the representatives of the services in the closed area, and already the political issues to the representatives of the Council of Ministers and the political debate in the opening part. To be as clear as possible, that is, a hearing, and if there are any questions to the services, they should be in a closed section because... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u360	That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u361	Well, yes, by the way, I do not think that the MPs are sufficiently responsible for the position they hold and can distinguish between information collected in a closed and open area and not abuse it by saying things from being hidden in an open area.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u362	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Let's hear from Mr. Svilensky and we'll move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u363	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers! Colleagues from GERB, if you had invited 10 more people from the Ministry of Health, agriculture and several others, we probably had to open and close every 15 minutes. The way you have tabled your proposal, to inform you, the hearing must proceed as follows: Now, as I get off this stand, the prime minister will pass, say for 5 Let the Minister pass, tell him to come out. No attitude, no questions. That's what you want. What Christian Vigenin proposed to the Conference of Presidents and you did not accept it is because you invited six people to adopt special rules for this hearing. You didn't accept that either. You want us to go by the rules of art. 110 on two issues, five minutes at a time, then two more questions to the services and about 240 minutes for all the parliamentary groups to rank on this platform. What the chairman suggested, I think, has been found a balance. The representatives of the government will make an exhibition, then we will ask on two questions the first round, the second round to the ministers, we will make an attitude, then we will listen to the services. What's not clear? This is a secret meeting. And to the question of how secret it is, each and every one of us knows. After all, this meeting is being held for the Bulgarian citizens. If he wants some more confidential information, he's got a Defense Commission, he's got a Foreign Policy Commission, he can be classified there and all the classified data can be moved out. I do not think that the place is in front of 240 MPs to release information, and then to ask questions about this information and to open and to close the meeting six times today. So, Mr. President, my procedure is to put your proposal to the vote first, as you tabled it, and if it is accepted, we are going this way, if we do not vote on the next proposals of our colleagues Nenkov, Gajev who else did? I think Mr. Tsonev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u364	Thank you. Let us now proceed to the vote on individual proposals. First of all, we are voting on the proposal that I have made, namely: an exhibition, we are listening to the people who want to take the floor, then we are going to ask questions to the members of the Council of Ministers, expressing the attitude of the parliamentary groups and then in closed-door questions to the representatives of the services. That's my offer. Vote 204 MPs: 126 against 2, abstention 76. The motion is accepted. I'll put every single proposal to the vote. I'm voting on Yordan Tsonev's proposal. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u365	Isn't that what you said?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u366	Okay, but I still wanted to, so we're moving on. Since there's no desire, we're moving on to the order we've already established. Welcome, from the parliamentary group of GERB, you have five minutes to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u367	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We insisted on convening an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly so that, at a time of growing confrontation between NATO and the Russian Federation, we could determine how much the Bulgarian government is aware of the seriousness of the situation and is it prepared to meet various crisis scenarios. We are doing this not to cause unnecessary political clashes or, as government speakers say, we are hardly panicking, but to make you realize how important it is for the Bulgarian state to have a clear position close to a national consensus to form a national agenda that clearly outlines the values of the Bulgarian internal and foreign policy, because we must never forget that NATO is also a defensive political union based on values. Are we ready in this crisis situation to defend these values, or are we going to behave as a state of security and allied resource, and at times when determination needs to be demonstrated, we will be reduced? You really need to stay out of touch with reality to claim that we are panicking at a time when NATO has declared military readiness, and the Russian foreign minister directly wants NATO to withdraw from Bulgaria. We've also called this meeting because we're observing severe institutional paradoxes in the department. Only after our provisional declaration of January 21st were you forced to literally come and take some position after all. On top of that, it turned out that the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence came up with three separate declarations instead of having a consolidated and clear government position. These declarations and government officials speak of NATO as some third, almost separate from the Bulgarian defence structure. Our reading of the government's statements leads us to the conclusion that you perceive the allied efforts to support the Bulgarian defence as a foreign presence. Later, again by representatives of the same ruling coalition, we understand that everything spoken so far has been almost personal opinions, and the Bulgarian foreign minister has not gone to any council of foreign ministers so far. Here we must clearly declare that the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ will support an allied presence within NATO's plans to retain the aggression of the Russian Federation if the government has the courage to propose such. We expect today's debate to lead to clarity in relation to your assessments of the geopolitical situation in the context of NATO's opposition. But we do have one insistent request, so stop raising dust with phrases, such as interest. This concept is defined differently from different political parties and if there are people in your government for whom the national interest is to behave as a member of the Warsaw Treaty, then for us the national interest is for Bulgaria to be a strong and reliable ally in NATO. We are also listening to much about the modernization of the army and the development of our own defense capabilities. The governments of GERB have done extremely much in this direction, whether you want to admit it or not. We have paid both the Cougars and the Spartans and the Panthers, which were not paid by the government of the Triple Coalition. This was paid in the time of GERB. We paid her two ships. We ordered and paid the first eight F 16. Will you have and commit to order and pay the next F-16? But now, at a time of crisis, you have the exclusive opportunity to increase the share of gross domestic product for defence to 2% and take decisive steps towards continuing this modernisation that we have maintained. If in today's debate you offer us a meaningful and consistent position and answers, we are ready to support your efforts in the name of Bulgarian national security and the protection of Bulgarian and European democracy, in the name of the right sovereign states to make their independent civilization choices. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u368	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Now among the heard persons, I assume it is Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u369	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to make it clear from this tribune that the position of the Bulgarian government is very clear, clear, with the following messages: Firstly, we have stated from the very beginning that we will be a constructive ally in NATO, we will be a constructive member of the European Union, and our position has been clearly declared from the outset. Bulgaria is and will be a responsible ally with a predictable position and no one should be exercising on this subject. I would like to say that the first and most important position for Bulgaria is that we must work with all possible means, with all diplomatic means to deescalate the tensions. Deescalation and the use of non-military funds is the goal that we as a Bulgarian government place on top of our priorities. On the other hand, I would like to say that the Council of Ministers, first of all, yesterday, we called the Security Meeting of the Council of Ministers. I, as Prime Minister, have been informed by the services as well as you will be informed today. Part of the information is classified, but I can generally say that the escalation is real, we see it as a serious challenge to the Bulgarian government and we follow on a daily basis, even on an annual basis all developments in this conflict. What I can also assure you is that our strategy for the first time has the idea of not being consumers of security, but of being constructive partners, allies and putting the Bulgarian Army as a priority in our defence strategy. Unfortunately, however, over the years there have been clear deficits in equipment and investment in the Bulgarian Army. If I can share specifically, we have investments that have been non-systemically organised so as to work as a common system and strategy, and we have separate investments that have been made uncoordinated and not with the best options to optimize our defence. The good news is that our government is taking up this goal and hence the defence investment will be based on a systematic review of which are the biggest deficits so that our army has a defensive opportunity of one that should correspond as an ally in NATO. On the other hand, I would like to say that as a state we have different options on how to participate in the defence and as an ally of NATO and our choice is to prioritize the Bulgarian army again with Bulgarian troops, under Bulgarian military leadership, with Bulgarian command. For the first time, this is the main priority. And when we put this as a priority, the deficits that are missing clearly stand out where they are and that is where we will make the investment. We will actually use the crisis to invest in places where there is the most need. Because individual, uncoordinated investments, in the wrong way, as has been done so far, cannot continue, because our army must have full defence fighting ability. On the other hand, I would like to say that this strategy is fully coordinated as a predictable partner and ally in NATO. We have informed our allies that they can count and that we will speak with one voice because the United makes the force, as we know in one voice, both NATO allies and as part of the European Union. What do we offer you as a strategy?! We're monitoring the escalation, we're working on de-escalation and all diplomatic measures, priority number one. We focus on the defence strategy to be based on the Bulgarian Army, with Bulgarian troops. The third priority is that we monitor where our deficits are and we purposely invest in order to complete them. From now on Bulgaria's reputation will be not a consumer of security, but a constructive ally and partner. I hope that when you hear, I will not inform you, because this needs to be done in a closed session, the real information from the services, you will see that this strategy is the most logical strategy that we can do. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change", INN, BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u370	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Yanev, do you want the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u371	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the question asked by Mr. Mitov, who showed in general the framework for reasoning and concern these days not only at political level, but in particular the concerns of Bulgarian citizens that something dramatic is happening, almost Bulgaria is on the verge of a dramatic conflict in its territory or in a territory that is in close proximity, we are talking about measures that our country as a member of NATO is able and willing to take. As the prime minister has already said, first of all, to make every effort and to continue diplomatic efforts to prevent a possible conflict. Secondly, from the point of view of NATO's efforts to create the necessary deterrent potential along the eastern borders of the NATO member states, to make the necessary efforts, which are consistent with the already existing measures built over the years and imposed over the years. There has been a question of maybe opening, and here a clamp to say that previous NATO summits have taken decisions that relate precisely to strengthening NATO's eastern flank. In this regard, two similar but in different ways developed initiatives have been developed. One is an enhanced front presence and the other is for adapted front presence. The adapted front presence is for the Black Sea area, the enhanced front presence is for the Baltic States and Poland. Currently, as a result of the recent development of the crisis following the relevant NATO decisions, the NATO Military Committee, the NATO European Commander-in-Chief, has tasked the military authorities to look for opportunities for new military options. Since these options have not gone through a NATO decision at the highest level, the highest-level solution is precisely a summit, such a summit is coming in the summer, and measures are currently being discussed that resemble the enhanced front presence in line with the measures imposed in the Baltic States and Poland. Similar types of measures should be implemented in the countries of NATO's southeastern flank in particular Bulgaria, Romania, Slovakia and Hungary. These measures are many, they are described. At the closed session you can set the specific to Admiral Eftimov, who will explain them in detail. At the moment, what I would like to say is that some of these measures also provide for the possibility of deploying the so-called ground element or combat group, which, according to NATO terminology, has three types of countries that can potentially participate in such a group. One is called a framework country, the other is a host country. Of course, countries that make their contribution. In analyzing all of what we are talking about, in analyzing our capabilities, our abilities and, above all, what was mentioned in Mr. Mitov's statement, that Bulgaria does not want to be a consumer of security, but to be an equal and full member of NATO, we sought the best option. These options were discussed at a number of councils and today's decision of the Council of Ministers precisely shows our thinking in this direction. What do I mean? The dilemma before which we were placed a political decision to say: "Well well. It is high time for NATO to come and protect us. " This means that we continue to neglect our own military capabilities, not to develop them as noblely as they have not been developed in the last 12 years of GERB, but on the contrary, I can explain exactly what has not happened. I have a counter thesis on your thesis, but I don't think this is the time. In fact, we will turn the word and say: "Yes, we agree to make such a battle group, but it will be Bulgarian. In practice, what does that mean? From a purely military point of view, that means that this battalion that we designate will be at its permanent location. It will simply increase the rate of training, preparation and exercise of teaching for different types of scenarios, what the Bulgarian Army, the armed forces in peace time do. That is, we do not foresee any escalation, we do not foresee plans for protection on national territory, nor do we plan for this contingent to go somewhere outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and carry out other tasks. In terms of deficits. With regard to the fact that the armed forces, despite the reforms and many, say it, pink assessments of what has happened and what money has been spent over the years, ultimately our analysis and assessment, which we are currently giving to the Bulgarian Armed Forces, is that the existing deficits are precisely the result of a non-systemic approach over the years, non-systemic funding over the years. In this case, without looking for specifics in detail, I would point to one or more examples of the ineffective functioning of the defence system. Whatever the planned budget for the year is a good, bad, big, small, it does not matter, the procedures provided for interinstitutional within the framework of the law, the procedures provided for the implementation of individual projects, when it comes to modernisation, for improvement of precisely the combat potential to build capabilities of the armed forces, are of such a type that it is more likely that within one year it will fail to prepare the whole package, not to be able to spend the money allocated for it, and at the end of the year to look for a way to compensate for something else. After all, the system is limping and not developing. I mean, what I want to say is that in these years, as a result of changes in legislation, in particular the Defence and Armed Forces Act, and dependence on these procedures that do not help this type of funding.. Predictably and predictable, we are in a situation where we say that the defence system is not effective enough, does not achieve the way to build new capabilities under a mechanism that we want to predict and predict, as a result of which there are deficits in this type of our abilities. In this regard, our decision says: "Yes, this battalion group will be national, the framework state is Bulgaria, the host country is Bulgaria and it is given the opportunity for this type of ability to be employed if desired by other countries and if possible, of course, which means that training, preparation and implementation of exercises to take place with the forces of other countries. Of course, much smaller formations, comparable to the battalion, this means small units, small units to use this mechanism of transmission of experience, transmission of opportunity for use of procedures and practices, which currently due to lack of key capabilities in some ways in the Bulgarian Army cannot be trained. In a nutshell. From a military technical point of view, this is the essence of the solution and, of course, it is mentioned once again that Bulgaria relies on continuing diplomatic efforts to prevent the crisis we are talking about around the borders of Ukraine, for which a crisis at the closed session will be able to hear the assessment of the services which there could be in relation to Bulgaria. From a military implication point of view, it's more like no, there aren't any. We are talking about normal combat training, training of the Bulgarian armed forces and building their capacity. In this regard, and given the fact that we are already finding as a deficit, this will be my request and my appeal to you. From now on, we, together with you, the people's representation, must seek a way to improve both the legislative base and the administrative procedures so as to break this cycle of inability to spend the military budget unfocused and not to make those abilities necessary for the Bulgarian army. We all have the understanding that Bulgaria needs modern armed forces to respectively represent that element of state power, which, together with diplomatic and economic, places Bulgaria on the map precisely in international relations, to be talking with the corresponding burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u372	Thank you, Mr. Minister, dear Mrs. Genchovska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u373	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since 2014, Bulgaria, as well as all NATO allies and partners in the EU, has been very concerned about the tension that exists on the eastern flank. In this sense, we are giving priority to diplomatic efforts to find a way out of the crisis. The bilateral dialogue on strategic stability between the US and Russia, as well as the meetings with Russia in the NATO Council format, Russia on 12 January this year, and within the OSCE on 13 January, are the right steps in this direction. Russia's subsequent attempts to shift the focus of public attention from the conflict in and around Ukraine on the topic of negotiating new security borders with NATO and the US testify to a selective one-sided approach by the Russian side in terms of Euro-Atlantic security. Russia obviously seeks to bring a division among the allies, treating them as different categories and undermining the principle of security indivisibility, and returning to the spheres of influence since the Cold War. In line with the two-track approach established after 2014 in NATO's relations with Russia, on the one hand, strengthening the deterrent, defence potential of the Alliance and, on the other hand, dialogue with Russia. A NATO Council meeting was held on 12 January at the level of permanent representatives in NATO delegations, which is the first since 2019. The aim was to convince Russia of a subsequent dialogue with the Alliance as part of diplomatic efforts to deescalate from Moscow the security situation in and around Ukraine. The Allies and Russia have directly exchanged their views on the situation in and around Ukraine, as well as the resulting complications for European security. Once again, the principled differences between NATO member states and Russia have been confirmed, but a positive sign is the very restoration of dialogue and the discussion of substantive issues. Bulgaria, like the other allies, has expressed a firm position to respect and respect the fundamental principles of international security, which are not subject to renegotiate or compromise, including each country to choose its own foreign policy course and its security policy. Support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova in their internationally recognised borders, as well as NATO's policy on art. 10 of the Washington Treaty, reduced to open-door policy. The Russian idea of spheres of influence was categorically rejected. A proposal has been made to Russia to renew discussions within the NATO Council on the situation in and around Ukraine to reduce risk, control of arms, disarmament and non-proliferation. Russian proposals that violate international order, of course, will not be the subject of discussions. We are about to see how serious Russia intends to engage in constructive dialogue. In response to Russian proposals to the US and NATO member states for legally binding security guarantees, the US is expected to present to Russia today their written proposals for discussions, while also presenting the proposals for discussions agreed by NATO member states. Maybe in an hour it'll be a fact. In the process of analyzing the situation in NATO and assessing the need for further adaptation of the defensive containment potential, Bulgaria, as I have already said, has consistently defended its national interests since 2014. It should be stressed, however, that the security of the member states is a fundamental principle of the Washington Treaty, and we as allies agree that we are ready to respond in a decisive manner if necessary in the event of a possible deterioration of the security situation, including by strengthening and strengthening the defence potential and the presence of the Alliance. That includes the east flank. Bulgaria is a responsible and constructive NATO member and the decisions we make together with our allies in the Alliance, taking into account the positions of all member states and with consensus, are in the interest of collective and national security. Since the illegal annexation of Crimea and the destabilising actions of Russia in Eastern Ukraine in 2014, NATO has undertaken activities related to strengthening the dissuasive and defensive potential. By the decision already cited by the Minister of Defence, in 2016 the Alliance strengthened its presence in the Black Sea region. The current effort on the eastern flag is part of a process that has already begun and is an expression of the constant adaptation and strengthening of the Alliance in response to current security threats and challenges. The participation of forces from Union countries is an expression of additional measures to increase the readiness and demonstrate unity and solidarity of the allies. Within the framework of the adapted foster presence Bulgaria as a Black Sea ally makes its contribution to strengthening NATO's restraining and defensive potential. The Black Sea region is strategically important for the security of the Alliance. As you know, since 2016, there has been a specific initiative by Bulgaria to host the Regional Maritime Coordination function of the Black Sea, which has no escalating character, but is not directed against other countries in the region. Further adaptation and strengthening of the reception presence of the Eastern flank, including Bulgaria, should be considered in the broad context of ensuring the security of member states, subject to the principle of indivisibility of security, and not solely of Russia's actions. In this context, different options are considered which are the subject of discussion between the Allies, as you have already been informed. Bulgaria forms its position on the basis of national legislation, taking into account the national and allied interests. Whatever additional measures are taken, including military measures, it should be quite clear that they are of a defensive nature and do not aim to escalate. They are aimed at strengthening the dissuasive and defensive potential of the Alliance as a whole and of individual member states, including us, protection against threats and challenges from all geographical directions. This is the so-called 360-degree approach to security that NATO has successfully implemented for several years as a result of the Wales summits and Warsaw. NATO remains the main founding political-military union to ensure our national security and complemented by the efforts of the European Union's common foreign and security policy. For Bulgaria, the strategic partnership and the close coordination between NATO and the European Union is of key importance for European security. Maintaining NATO and the European Union's united position is essential for the effectiveness of our policy towards Russia and is a crucial prerequisite for a peaceful resolution of the crisis in and around Ukraine based on the full implementation of the Minsk agreements. Against the backdrop of Russian aggressive actions, the unity and solidarity of the allies are extremely important, as well as the firm protection of fundamental principles and values on which European security is based. Currently, there are no steps on the Russian side towards deescalation, on the contrary the last Russian actions and rhetoric point to increasing the risk of Russian military intervention. All these developments clearly indicate serious risks, security challenges for NATO's eastern flank and specifically for Bulgaria, which requires comprehensive measures to ensure the country's security. The measures we take in NATO and in the European Union are an expression of the common efforts to overcome the crisis and guarantee security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u374	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Do the representatives of the services wish to supplement anything? We move on to the issues, first of all to Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, according to the size of the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the Continue Changing? No question. On behalf of GERB-SDS? Daniel Mitov, come in. You have two minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u375	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I'm a little hopeful. It became clear to me from the statements of both the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence that they knew what they were saying. The Secretary of Defense and I have some differences that we have yet to clarify, of course. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sorry, but from your speech I hardly understood anything new other than what you told us the other day on January 21st, only then you said maybe six sentences, now there are 26, but nothing different. And to tell you the truth, Bulgaria has not been a security consumer in NATO until now. There was also a Bulgarian contingent in Kosovo, there was also in Iraq, there was in Afghanistan. Bulgarian soldiers lost their lives! We are worried that the Bulgarian government could eventually turn Bulgaria into a consumer. But my question is this: firstly, for years the Russian Federation has shown its desire for a geopolitical and historical rematch. This includes confrontational and aggressive rhetoric and actions in relations between NATO and the countries neighbouring the Russian Federation from the post-Soviet space. In the Russian periphery, a number of frozen conflicts and proxy wars appeared one after the other. For years we have witnessed targeted disinformation campaigns of the Russian Federation aimed at the European Union, NATO and individual member states of these alliances. Mr. Prime Minister, we would really appreciate it if you gave us your analysis and your reading of the geopolitical clash NATO, Russia, and what are the objectives that the Russian Federation pursues in this confrontation, in your opinion, and what are the risks to Bulgaria based on this assessment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u376	Thanks for asking, Mr. Mitov. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u377	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm glad you declared that our position is consistent. If you call us to a meeting tomorrow, I'll confirm it again, so it can happen as many times as you want. I respect the National Assembly. As you can see, I come every time. Something important that I want to share with you that we do not believe and in no way support areas of influence. We believe that each country has the right to make its own decisions about its own defence strategy, and in our case This means that a type of speech such as these and these countries have no right to have a defensive strategy or have no right to have the following defence capabilities because they are close to another country, we do not accept it as a philosophy at all. We believe that every country.. whether it is small or large, whether it is near or far, has the right to its own decisions on how to decide its defence strategy. That is why we were also categorical in our declaration, and we will continue to be adamant that we reject any type of rhetoric such as these and these countries should not have these and these military capacities. From this point of view, I would like to assure you that Bulgaria's geopolitical strategy is precisely the constructive joint strategy of the NATO Union, knowing that in order to have a really better effect, we need to speak with one voice. On the other hand, the only way to say whether or not we are a consumer of security must be based on what opportunities we have and how we put our priorities. As I said, our priority is the Bulgarian army with Bulgarian troops, but the deficits we have need to clearly say what they are and together to decide. And you, when you decide the budget next week, to focus that investments in the Bulgarian defence are well invested money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u378	Thank you, Prime Minister. Question on behalf of the DPS parliamentary group? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u379	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Ministers! Our sovereign and conscious choice is NATO and the European Union, and it does not need revision. It is clear to all of us that the actions that are developing in the Black Sea region are a cause of growing concern for the possible consequences for Bulgaria. It is clear from the statements of the world leaders that NATO will not have the Alliance's military troops on Ukraine's territory, but are ready to defend each and every member of its own. For us, the MPs from the Parliamentary Group for Rights and Freedoms, the best way to resolve any conflict is by discussing arms control, disarmament, transparency of military activities and other issues reducing the risk of any military action. In this regard, my question to you, Prime Minister, is: what would be the parameters of the economic and social consequences of a possible conflict; do you have a preliminary assessment made; if not an assessment, what is your forecast for this?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u380	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. You have the floor, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u381	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, we have a clear idea and this was part of the analysis yesterday, which we discussed in the Security Council with the Prime Minister. However, I would prefer some of the information, if you could ask it to me in the closed session, to give you clearer ideas, because some of this is really national security, which I wouldn't share just so openly. But, yes, the main risks for Bulgaria are in the field of energy. From this point of view, we have clear plans on what needs to be done so that we can ensure that the Bulgarian population does not have direct effects on sanctions imposed, and that there are serious sanctions, especially in the field of gas. I'd be happy to share some more details with you in the closed session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u382	Thank you, Prime Minister. The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u383	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, dear Minister, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! Firstly, I would like to thank you, Mr. Petkov, for being back in parliament and providing important information for both us and Bulgarian citizens. This government and you personally show that these issues, which are the most important for the state, should be discussed here in the National Assembly. We also see a new role, thanks to you, of the Bulgarian National Assembly. I would also say because the question was asked what is the national interest, and he, of course, has many aspects, but a key interest for Bulgaria is to preserve the unity of the nation on such important issues as defence, security, war and peace. In this sense, it is key for Bulgaria to maintain a maximum moderate position in this hysterical environment that is being created. On the one hand, to ensure that our commitments with regard to NATO are met, but on the other hand, to state clearly and categorically at the level of government, but also at the level of the National Assembly, that Bulgaria will not engage in any way in hostile actions, even less military, and involvement in any conflict. I think this position is understandable in terms of the specifics of the attitude of the Bulgarian people especially towards Russia. In this direction, I also accept with satisfaction the fact that you, after the meeting of the Council of Ministers, and also in your statements in recent days, stress that for us a key issue is the deescalation of tensions and Bulgaria will work in this direction as a member of NATO and of the European Union. In this sense, as well as in your position from last week it became clear that Bulgaria is not ready to accept the role of an object in international relations, but will be subject and will have its position. Security issues are not issues that will be discussed by someone else, somewhere else, but with the participation of Bulgaria. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My question to you is: what measures do you consider proposals, initiatives, to de-escalate tensions; in what direction does the Council of Ministers or you personally think; what do you think the National Assembly could do to support you in these efforts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u384	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Here you are, Mr. Petkov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u385	Thanks for asking. In fact, today in the Council of Ministers, the first point he adopted and it will be made public is that the Bulgarian government believes that the main priority of Bulgaria should be prioritization for the deescalation of tensions, using all diplomatic means. Even this as a declaration from the Council of Ministers as a first point, I think it also gives a clear message to our partners what our priority is. Separately, I have the opportunity to talk to our partners both in the European Union and in the NATO Union. In each conversation, I stress personally how important it is to use all the methods of diplomacy to de-escalate tensions and make sure that a military conflict does not become a reality. I can also give the floor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. She also participates continuously in talks with our partners and her colleagues. We are considering strategies for Bulgaria to be a constructive member in this discussion and at all times to emphasize the importance that deescalation is our main priority. We are a small country in the European Union, but from now on our voice will be clearly expressed at any moment. We are prepared to assist any effort of our allies in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u386	Thank you, Prime Minister. Are there any questions on behalf of the Parliamentary Group? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u387	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Prime Minister, I have a very specific question for you: are there any developed scenarios for the effects on the economy of Bulgaria, in particular on the sector............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u388	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. You have the floor, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u389	Thanks for asking. The answer to your question is: there is. Minister Nikolov and I have been working on these strategies for the last few days, and I can assure you that yes, some risks that we all know about energy security, especially when there is an impact on some of the supplies that are strategic for Bulgaria, are a factor. But we have a clear plan on how, under these conditions, we are in clear communication, by the way, with the European Union, what precise measures we would do if this happened. I would ask you again if I could complement this issue at the closed session because these are part of our strategically planned, but I assure you that Bulgarian households, Bulgarian businesses will have an alternative in such a scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u390	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Atanasov, come on in on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! Mr. Prime Minister, we from "Democratic Bulgaria" are pleased that you called a meeting of the Security Council at the Council of Ministers. I stress this because I quite often and intrusively point to Article. 105, para. 2 of the Constitution, but this is an important text. According to this text, the Council of Ministers is responsible for security and public order in the country. The Security Council is this instrument of executive power that should monitor the risks and threats to national security constantly so that you can receive adequate information and plan your actions. In this regard, I would like to ask you: in what capacity is the Security Council currently in? I would like to give you an example here: during the Kosovo crisis, then, by the way, this Security Council was established, it acted for 24 hours and there was an organization established to continuously collect adequate information from the security services so that adequate decisions can be made on this basis by the Council of Ministers. So I ask you very much to answer: in what state is the Security Council currently in and is there an ability in 24 hours to collect, analyse and provide you with adequate information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u392	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u393	Thanks for asking. The Security Council is really the right institutional approach to making such decisions. On the day yesterday, we spent nearly three hours discussing with all the services. Personally, I was very pleased to see the reports that were presented. I am also pleased to announce that we have yesterday a new Secretary of the Security Council, who will coordinate and make the protocols and final decisions of all the councils that we are taking from the security services. The other thing I am happy about is: although much of the information was close among the various services, there were differences. In other words, the sources of information in our services are not from one place and we have the opportunity to have the most different and generalising information on which to base a much more informed solution than just a short recommendation. Now you will see the services that will speak during the closed session that their capacity is actually very high. I was very hopeful and I think that from now on, all the issues on the topic of Security will be occupied with this institutional approach and no one will be able to make any decisions because this is how he woke up. I believe that we will use the Security Council and I intend to get used to it more regularly so that we can make the right decisions at such delicate moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u394	Thank you, Prime Minister. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the party "Kostadin Kostadinov."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u395	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister! For several days there has been an escalation of the hysteria in Bulgaria on the occasion of what is happening on the Russian-Ukrainian border. What's interesting is that what's happening out there isn't news. Russian troops have been in Rostov region since 21 August last year. They are making standard teachings, as the North Atlantic Treaty of the Baltic Republics and Poland did last year. There's nothing scary about it, nothing weird. However, the escalation of hysteria, not of tension, has started to deepen over the last few days in Bulgaria, which is particularly strange because most of the normal and healthy Bulgarians in our country, we see that it is about a topic which is used rather in the internal political debate in our country. I do not want to participate in this competition, which is basically intended to show who is more, more loyal to our partners or masters, depending on the terminology of NATO, because the truth is that we are not just a consumer of security in this organisation, but, in fact, we are an addition, a territory that is used as a platform and a convenient territory for deploying foreign military forces in our country. However, since the escalation of hysteria is a fact, I would like to use this tribune to ask you a very simple question, which I think is the main reason why we are finally gathered here. It is as follows: do you think, Prime Minister, that Russia poses a threat to Bulgaria's national security? I expect a brief answer. If to argue why, if not also an argument why, in order to know from there and what other questions to ask from there, and not just us, but especially the Bulgarian citizens in what way to approach in their assessment of a situation which, according to the main actors in it, Russia and Ukraine, is not a source of tension. Just two days ago, the Ukrainian Defence Minister said he did not expect Russia to attack him. The Russians no longer know exactly how many hundred times they explained that they had no such intentions, but the tensions of the United States have already reached its truly infinite grotesque dimensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u396	Thanks for asking. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u397	Thanks for asking. First of all, I cannot agree that someone has a master of Bulgaria, we are a sovereign nation and the only people empowered to decide the fate of Bulgaria are the Bulgarian government, the Bulgarian institutions and no one else can think or give even some hypotheses that this is different. We must respect ourselves as a nation, and the approach from here on is.. impact zones do not matter; we are constructive partners in the alliances we are already in. But the other thing that is very important is to say: it is not normal to say: Because today somewhere else will not be kept, suddenly this can happen somewhere closer. So the principle approach is the one leading in our approach and response to the situation. What I also want to say is, when you have 100,000 people, 100,000 numbers, it costs quite a lot of resources. You can't just have 100,000 to someone's limit without having some strategic dimension for it. As we know, that 100,000 wasn't the whole time. I will give the floor to experts in the field, but it can be said very clearly that tension and escalation is a fact. We can't ignore him. So also the approach I want to welcome the Minister of Defence that we place priority on the Bulgarian Army and Bulgarian security to be a function of the Bulgarian Army and its leadership, I think it is exactly the right approach and respect for international law should apply to everyone. As is, of course, the legality of our country, as well as the fact that who enters this building on the basis of the decisions of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[(Applause from.. We continue Change......................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u398	Thank you, Prime Minister. With this we exhausted the first round of questions to Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. We move on to the next round of questions, which is to the Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev. Once again we start with the parliamentary group of.. We continue the Change... are there any questions to Stefan Yanev? No question. From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u399	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! I listened carefully to the previous statements. Yes, we return the leading role of the Bulgarian Army in the attitude of territorial units. Well, when wasn't it, Minister? The Bulgarian army has always been the leader. The Bulgarian command bodies have always been leading. And here's a tip: it might be nice to make a briefing in the Council of Ministers on the provisions of the Defence and Armed Forces Act and the various strategic documents, such as the National Defence Strategy, contentency plans and so on. I think it would be useful for all the members of the Council of Ministers who have cashiership on them. As for my direct question, it is based on the approach you have developed to create the framework country you have developed. The concept of a framework country, by the way, proposed by Germany in 2013, adopted shortly before the Council of 2014, provides that the leading framework country is mainly one of the major armies in NATO and to help others who are involved in the concept. That is, you have a framework country in great power of NATO, a host country, and other countries that want to join. Since 2016, there have been several on the basis of this thing - the four battle groups that are in the Baltic States and in Poland - are about the same. A little different is the principle enshrined in Romania's multinational brigade in the adapted presence. From now on, at least I find it a little strange how we are both host countries, and we are also a framework state, as far as I understand from the speech. That is, we are both the host and the great country that gives the abilities. If you could explain exactly how you see him. Does this mean that we will actually be alone in this framework structure and without having any other powers and means from allied countries, as it is in all other such concepts?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u400	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u401	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Gazhev, the reference to theory and practice so far is not quite correct, because then, in 2016, the decisions were such, at the moment the conditions are different. Because I have already mentioned that such a decision to create these types of measures that are currently under discussion has not been taken at a NATO summit, that is, the Decision cycle is not over. In this sense, the analogy is not correct. What the Prime Minister said several times, and I would like to confirm, our focus is precisely the combination of this opportunity and the country of the host country and the framework state to be Bulgaria. That is, our focus is to develop our own defense capabilities precisely by enabling more training, more exchange of experience and real testing for these conditions of combat preparation of our units in the best sense and, of course, by searching for exactly these deficits to compensate for with targeted investment projects in the future. In short, this is the way of thinking and the way we work. Henceforth, the entry into definitions and the search for some pure procedural deviations from what we are trying to do does not bring any added value. The idea is to develop the Bulgarian armed forces, for which there are no obstacles. There's no precedent. In this similar situation is Hungary's proposal. Just so you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u402	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u403	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! For the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, it is very clear and responsible that we state: there should be no military action and we do not think there will be any. All that is happening is perhaps a demonstration of visible military power and, of course, areas of influence. Political leaders, at the same time, the military leaders themselves, I suppose, are aware of the most sensible and far-sighted way of solving crises, whether military or even demonstration of military power, is the path of diplomacy, as we like to say, the path of dialogue, the road of bilateral talks, the road of international relations and talks. In the modern world, the deployment of a large number of military forces and equipment at any point in Europe or the world is causing tension. This tension, of course, can also cause internal conflicts in a country, civil disobedience, even domestic civil wars. A is a very small line between the listed by type of conflict and the real military actions, sometimes accompanied by the participation of external forces. I would add: the problem is much more complicated than we imagine. Before I develop my question, we, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, are strongly opposed to the conduct of hybrid or any information war and we are for a peaceful solution on a diplomatic path of all crises, even if they refer to the Black Sea region, and we are for a firm and firm defence of Bulgaria's membership and responsibility in the defence union. In this regard and since the Minister of Defence in his statement mentioned the distribution of forces in the Republic of Bulgaria, my question to you, Mr. Minister, is: what will be the parameters of action, what will be the parameters of arming and what will be the parameters of military power management and equipment that will eventually be distributed in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u404	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u405	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ibryamov, you rightly pointed out in your presentation that the search for the diplomatic solution is the key. That's our goal, too. The way in which all kinds of solutions are structured, including military technical ones, they must be so made and so served as not to interfere with diplomatic efforts, but rather to assist them. That was our wish, too. This was our wish and when we discussed all possibilities and options in a similar way to express this confidence to the Bulgarian society that things are basically put in the right way and we are obliged to explain them in such a way that people understand them and make sure that there is no immediate danger, there is no war or conflict in Bulgarian territory and in the immediate vicinity in which Bulgarian soldiers are intended to participate. Rather, what we are talking about is enhanced preparation of the Bulgarian armed forces. What I have already said several times will be the deployment of Bulgarian troops, the Bulgarian chain of command through the national command channels and through them with the corresponding channels of communication with NATO. In this sense, we do nothing more than maintain balance so as to dominate diplomatic efforts to prevent a crisis in the immediate vicinity of our borders and at the same time strengthen our own defensive potential. I think this is the formula that we have found, and I think it could best be explained to the Bulgarian public. Regarding what you said you were against the hybrid war, and a few moments ago it sounded like there was a hysterization of situations and of talking here, well, I would turn back the question of whether this hysterization, this over-talking on a subject that is not so dramatic at the moment, is not part of any such action. It's just a question! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u406	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u407	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister, while I continue to believe that today's topic has been deliberately overexposed and escalated into the Bulgarian society in recent days, proof of which is today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, I would like to ask you a specific clear question which, following these efforts in recent days, deeply excites the Bulgarian society. Can you guarantee, Minister, that no Bulgarian serviceman, including this battalion group, will take direct part in any armed conflict in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u408	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u409	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zafirov, the answer is: yes, absolutely! I can confirm that no Bulgarian soldier will take part in any kind of conflict or operation on the territory of Ukraine or any other country without these decisions being taken in this Chamber or in the Council of Ministers. At this point, yes, there is no such prediction. We are talking about a solution, as I have already mentioned several times, about a more intensive combat training of this contingent, as well as of all other men and women in uniform from the Bulgarian Army to prepare to be defenders of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u410	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is such a people? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u411	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we are witnessing very active diplomatic actions aimed at de-escalation of relations in this conflict between NATO and Russia, which will obviously continue, and I hope they will give a positive result. In the Black Sea region, there has been a serious focus of forces other than those envisaged by the government over the last 20 years of boats and sailboats, and that is why in this regard, my question is: do we have the necessary powers and resources so that Bulgaria meets its obligations in the context of this emerging crisis, being, of course, predictable and reliable NATO ally, and taking into account the fact that the defence budget was reduced in 2009, if I am not mistaken, by nearly 500 million. lv. and it's only now reaching the required levels. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u412	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u413	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, the short answer to your question whether Bulgaria is doing what is necessary with regard to its responsibilities and the region of the Black Sea, yes, definitely! To extend the answer a little, I can say the following: NATO is a military defence union where military capabilities are planned, and where a country does not have enough, other countries complement these capabilities. Yes, in recent years, the Black Sea region has come up with an enhanced military presence in the naval... just an element of the defensive picture. In this sense, the presence of ships and their presence is already perceived with understanding by both sides, both NATO and the Russian Federation, in the sense that the increased presence is rather a presence in terms of mutual understanding of the picture and capabilities, and I do not think it carries serious confrontations. So simply under international law, this type of sailing has been increased, but the agreements of the Montreux treaty are respected, so that a fleet of warships of another country does not stay longer than the maximum authorised period, if I am not mistaken, is 21 days, and conduct exercises rather than another type of operations. With regard to the financing of the Bulgarian Army, you refer correctly as of 2009, when in the course of the calendar year the defence budget was reduced once by nearly 500 million. lv. And yes, practically since then, the 500 million missing. lv. Instead of appearing in some later period, they may have appeared at the same levels of funding in approximately the last year. So we can all make the other account of what the Bulgarian army has been underfunded in these years, but let's say that this is not the right account and not speculate on the figures. Rather, the point is that when we talk about the creation of military capabilities, we are referring to the whole process of creating them and the shortcomings that they have in the regulatory base and the way the state has functioned over at least ten years. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the following question. Yesterday I had the opportunity to put it in front of my fellow MPs from the Defence Committee. The Ministry of Defence is the only state institution - a senior authorising officer with a budget funded by two items in the national budget - the military budget and the central budget. I can't think of any other institution like that. The funding from the central budget suggests that this money is given under the understatement, that is, if there is a contract prepared for the conclusion, and this practice continues. If you look at the figures in the Project, which will come to you next week, in terms of the budget forecast for 2023, you will see that these figures weigh roughly the same, i.e. the military budget is almost equal to that part in the central budget, which is potentially allocated to defence needs. This will let you decide how it is, do not want to put adjectives and say whether it is good practice or not. Similarly, there is the question of the Defence and Armed Forces Act, where over the years the special requirement of military equipment at a price of directional or estimated from more than 100 million must be passed through an act of the National Assembly. And here to open the clamp, how does the mechanism work? The entire mechanism has so far envisioned such a funding model, a project needed by the armed forces, to start with an investment expenditure project that must pass through the National Assembly, to approve it by the National Assembly. This project for investment expenditure, I do not comment on what is the expertise and how it is done, but very often the parameters set in it, including the financial ones, do not correspond to the reality. In addition, the period for doing even less than one calendar year, and the time for passing this act through the National Assembly makes this project obsolete from the point of view of business. This is my appeal to you: to all improve this toolbox, so that whatever the military budget is, it can be spent purposefully and effectively, because all of this we want the armed forces to be equipped and trained in the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u414	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u415	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of Defense, Mrs. Minister of Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen! The question I am going to ask is related to the information disclosed, which was shared yesterday during the discussion of the meeting of the Defence Committee, that the decision of the increased security risks will be sought through a national contingent, which is undoubtedly a NATO one, and in the framework of this decision we will respond to the increased risks. My question specifically is the following, of course, the implementation of the mission of the Bulgarian Army is constitutionally entrusted, it must protect the borders, the territorial integrity of the country, the population, but we are all aware, unfortunately, what is the degree of preparedness from the point of view of outdated equipment, from the point of view of the non-completion and from the point of view of delayed modernization. In this regard, the question is this: when we define a contingent, I think you also mentioned a battalion as a combat unit, let's say that this is the NATO power in Bulgaria, how we actually increase our defense capabilities, given that the main infantry machines are with old Soviet weapons and there are no yet new ones, given that radar systems are also obsolete, there is no new, real how we bring NATO element into the whole process to ensure our security. And one more thing, in the end, NATO has managed to achieve its mission for so many years because of a simple fact of solidarity. And solidarity is clearly shown when the national armies of each country co-operate with the armies of other allies, in this regard: is this battalion intended to conduct trainings, trainings, missions with other allies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u416	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u417	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Slavov, yes, the preparation and training, the readiness of each unit depends on many factors and to some extent on its armament and its equipment. We have talked and talked long enough that some of this equipment is obsolete, modernization is needed, investments in defence and the armed forces are needed, and some of them have been made over the years, others, unfortunately, although they have started as an idea for an investment project, have not yet started. One of these projects is precisely the project for infantry fighting machines and, in particular, the project that could be the backbone of a future mechanized brigade. This is a serious problem, and in this case I am going back to what we talked about before, and it has been mentioned that every crisis is an opportunity, and this is precisely the driving force that makes us think that putting things on the foreground, enabling greater identification of the learning process, of the training process of the divisions, in fact, we will see better their deficits, and together with joint efforts between the executive and legislative authorities, we will look for precisely these solutions for the improvement of the inter-institutional base, for the faster movement of this type of modernisation projects. From there on, whether and how, yes, they will necessarily train with other formations from other member states and of any kind, whenever and wherever this military training takes place. But the main thing is to, for which you have said, armies side by side and in a battle environment, but let's say that even in a non-combat environment they are trained, this is what they are trying to do and the key that we have here as this type, this solder and the opportunity to work the armies of different countries, we call it interoperability and this is being trained, and this is being done. Yes, the Bulgarian armed forces have interoperability at the level of the other armed forces from NATO member states, so this will be trained and strengthened as potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u418	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Parliamentary Group of ARCHIVErs, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u419	Mr. Minister, I'm addressing you with a very serious question. As we all know, there are foreign military bases on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria that have extrasterial status and in which neither the National Assembly nor the Council of Ministers nor the Ministry of Defence control what is going on there. We do not know what troops there are as numbers and purposes, how much they are in, or what weapons and weapons they have. In this regard, my question is: how do you assess the risk of foreign military bases on our territory and is there no danger that we are a priority target in the face of a future conflict? In general, do you not think that these bases bring too little or little benefit to our defense and too great risks, precisely making us a target in this conflict? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u420	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u421	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Drenchev, let's say this rhetoric has long existed in the Bulgarian society, in the public space. There are no foreign bases on Bulgarian territory. What you are quoting under international law, under the international treaties that Bulgaria has concluded, is called joint facilities between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United States, with an interstate contract that was concluded in 2006 and which is updated and adapted to the development of the way these facilities are built and operate. In practice, there are four geographical locations on this list that have been proposed. These are besides the Novo selo polygon, Graff Ignatievo Airport, Bezmer Airport and the Aytos warehouse base, which is virtually not used. Airports are used accordingly, when rotation comes, the corresponding troops to train here, land here, carry out the tasks and withdraw. The Novo village polygon is used for joint training mainly of land units and aviation, with other types and families of troops, and its capabilities are generally in the military way of speaking: for carrying out a battalion tactical exercise. In this sense, the numbers for rotations and for people who can participate in this exercise are fixed in these international treaties. These figures have never been exceeded in the years since 2006, namely that there can be no more than 2,500 foreign troops for one rotation at the same time, whatever they are. In these joint facilities have conducted trainings and exercises not only the armed forces of the United States and Bulgaria, but also other NATO member states, NATO partners, international types of exercises of different nature and of different caliber. And at the moment, such teachings are taking place, and it has been repeatedly referred to and public information has also been exported by the Ministry of Defence. Yes, at the moment there is combat equipment, there are soldiers, including the United States, on the Novo village polygon, which is about 200 people. I can't quote fighting technique on a list, but that's not the most important thing in this case. You raised the question that Bulgaria as a country has almost no access and does not know what is happening there. Simply in response to this type of claim, because yesterday, Mr. Zafirov and I, after the Commission meeting, mentioned that we should think about one sitting, I invite you to the next Commission meeting, when we decide that it is appropriate and we find the right time, to do it exactly in this facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u422	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the round of questions to Minister Gencovska. Is there a question? From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u423	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues! First of all, I would like to begin by congratulating you, Madam Minister, because, to be honest, your report was the only one in which there was some political assessment of the situation there. I did not see one clearly either in the Prime Minister's initial statement or after that in response to the question, but it is still important that this hearing consists that as a result of our declaration from the 21st Security Council to the Council of Ministers was called and the Council of Ministers has already had some solution today and the Prime Minister, and you are here. I don't think there's a normal person, not just for a politician, but there's not a person here in this room, from any political family who wants an escalation of tension. Many times, both in the Prime Minister's speech and in your speech and in the speeches of the other Members of Parliament, we have heard that we must work and do all the efforts of diplomacy and all the possibilities of diplomacy for deescalation. In this regard, I have the following questions for you: would you inform us exactly what diplomatic efforts or approaches to quote the Prime Minister, you are making? I don't really want to mess with you. I know that you were sick of a horse, I am glad that you have recovered quickly, but the Bulgarian foreign minister is important to be present in personal quality of these councils not only because he will read his opinion there, but because he will feel the pulse, because he will be part of the common decision and at least because he will get acquainted with his colleagues. Neither at the Gymnih, nor at the Council on Monday, nor before the video conference of NATO foreign ministers Bulgaria was actually represented by its foreign minister. And that is why my question is: what specific diplomatic efforts are you making, because the Prime Minister said that you are making a great deal of effort. How many phone calls, how many meetings with your colleagues from the European Union or NATO or Ukraine? Did you hear from the Ukrainian colleague? Maybe we don't know, maybe this isn't public. I'm not saying that in order to pick a fight. What was Bulgaria's position in these councils regarding sanctions, the support to Ukraine, which has been spoken, as far as I know from the speeches of the other foreign ministers before and after the Council? Because you have rightly said in the report and I really congratulate you on it, that the purpose of the Russian Federation is to spread disunity both in the European Union and among NATO allies. How will Bulgaria contribute to this unity in the two organizations in which we are a member?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u424	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u425	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Zaharieva, thank you for your evaluation. I said that diplomatic efforts are not from yesterday and from today they are a time sequence. With regard to the fact that I met the challenge, I had to stay in the hospital, and this really hinders me from participating in the "Gymnih" and in the video conference of NATO foreign ministers, but I can assure you that the actions we have taken are not only within these frameworks. After taking over as foreign minister, I have had three phone calls with Anthony Blinken, US Secretary of State, and Jack Sullivan, who is President Biden's security advisor. Unfortunately, the Foreign Ministry has no closed link and we had to use the services of the Service "Military Intelligence" because of the nature of the conversation and therefore coordinated with colleagues in the form B-9 and especially at the insistence of the United States very limited information had to be published on the Foreign Ministry website. With regard to the results of the last Foreign Affairs Council on the 24th. Some of the information is classified, but I will try to inform you of what can be presented to the public. The most important thing is the message that both the European Union and NATO speak in one voice, but even more importantly, the United States are also in agreement and consensus with the European Union and NATO, because the messages that must be broadcast to the public are important, precisely for the purpose of this deescalation of tensions. With regard to the sanctions you mentioned, we had sent letters to all departments last week in order to make a risk-analysis of the situation, to offer their comments. The Foreign Ministry also summarized what it received, with our focus being placed on the possibility of obtaining some compensatory mechanisms in the areas where we would most likely have suffered, I suppose that in the closed part of the meeting you will receive more information about these areas. The EU's package of sanctions is still under development, but it will only be applied if necessary when the tensions are escalated. So the request of colleagues from the Permanent Representation and the European Commission at this stage is not to go into details about the package. That is why I told you, I think the Prime Minister also mentioned it, in all likelihood there will be a little more sensitive questions for us on the issue of energy security, but our colleagues will provide you with sufficient information. What I can tell you as a result of yesterday's Foreign Affairs Council meeting is that it is envisaged that the February meeting will invite the Ukrainian Foreign Minister to attend the meeting. In March, the Minister of Defence will take part. In addition, we are launching the process of planning an observation mission under the common security and defence policy of the European Union on the territory of Ukraine. Perhaps a purely political decision will be expected in February. With regard to the package of sanctions, I would just like to add, in case it is already a fact, there will be a call for an extraordinary European Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u426	Thank you, Madam Secretary. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u427	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, please present to us the main scenarios for the development of the conflict, the objective assessment, the estimates for the fulfillment of each of the scenarios. Please add to each of the scenarios the possible Implication for Bulgaria in the fulfillment of the respective scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u428	Thank you, Mrs. Mehmedova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u429	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for your question. In all likelihood and as appropriate this information will be received at the closed session. What I can tell you, however, in the open part, is that the main risks to our country are mainly related to security in the Black Sea region. That's the overall assessment. At the same time, there are risks of hybrid threats, asymmetric threats in relation to citizens, media, non-governmental organisations, as well as some political entities in all likelihood, cyber attacks are possible, and the issue was discussed at yesterday's first meeting of the Security Council, as well as hybrid attacks on the decision-making process in the NATO Member States, and the EU member states, I mean by Russia. Something I want to share with you.. you know that there is a significant Bulgarian community in Ukraine. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs instructed our ambassador there a week ago to prepare and update its evacuation plans in case of need. At this time there are no requests for evacuation of Bulgarian citizens, their families, embassy employees or business representatives and companies that are there. You know what Mr Borrell's position is that, at this stage, the Member States of the European Union do not need to withdraw from the territory despite the already begun withdrawal of members of the families of the embassies of the United States and Great Britain. For the other information you will have the opportunity during the closed part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u430	Thank you, Madam Secretary. From the BSP for Bulgaria. "Welcome, Professor Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u431	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, it is good to see you here among us. We haven't seen each other in the Foreign Committee yet, and I hope this will finally happen. My question is very specific and is as follows: one of the largest Bulgarian diasporas is located in the territory of the Republic of Ukraine - more than 250 thousand people of Bulgarian origin. August last year 200 years were celebrated since the founding of this diaspora. By its importance, it competes only with the Bulgarian diaspora in the United States of America, which is about the same size. My question is: what action has the Foreign Ministry taken to contact Bulgarian citizens there and to ensure their needs in the event of relevant risks being assessed. In this regard, what are the actions taken by the Foreign Ministry? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u432	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u433	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think I partly answered the question you're asking me. In purely national terms, I would like to tell you that we are in close coordination with the Ministry of Defence with a view to planning the necessary funds in case there is a problem with the airlines so that the resources of the Air Force can be used in order to temporarily withdraw the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u434	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A question from "There is such a people"? You don't. From "Democratic Bulgaria." Welcome, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u435	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Madam Minister, my question relates to the part of your exhibition where you said that a European Council is about to be discussed or perhaps that is how I took it. My question is more specific. We know that Bulgaria is one of the countries actively involved in enhanced structured cooperation in the area of defence of the European Union, the so-called PESCO. My question is: are specific actions being taken as part of the common European security, defence policy, or are the NATO measures and strategies being discussed at this stage, first and foremost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u436	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u437	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have already had the opportunity to tell you that the forthcoming Foreign Affairs Council is actually planning to decide on a possible training mission on the territory of Ukraine. The possibility of using the mechanism for permanent structured cooperation at this stage has not been discussed because it comes into a little more detail related to projects, equipment and so on. Mainly, NATO is discussing more concrete measures relating to forces and means that can strengthen the Alliance's previous presence, but we will always inform you if things get into greater detail under the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u438	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You are welcome to ask Minister Gencovska a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u439	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, you have done a very good analysis of the international situation, as well as of increasing tensions between the Russian Federation and Ukraine. From the words of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov we have found that someone, somewhere, once violated some norms of international law. Perhaps because of his lack of education from Harvard, I was unable to understand the answer to the question whether we consider Russia a threat or not? But back to the question. There is a large Bulgarian minority in Ukraine. There are 30 thousand Bulgarians in the region of Tavria, in the Prizevoje, which is only five kilometers from a possible front line. 7000 Bulgarians have in Donbas, which is also a very troubled area. These Bulgarians have repeatedly addressed the Bulgarian state for assistance and assistance. In 2014 they sent an official letter to the government of Boyko Borisov asking the Bulgarian state for assistance. Then Borisov replied that they are a problem of Ukraine and are its citizens.. not Bulgarians, but citizens of Ukraine, and basically have to deal with their problems themselves. We see the change has already begun. We see the visible results of the change, especially in the accounts, but my question is related to this: is there any change in the attitude of the Bulgarian state towards the Bulgarian minority in Tauria, in Donbas, as well as in other parts of these troubled areas? You have been in the Ministry since very soon, and in no way can you be responsible for the actions of governments before you. If you have such information, I would ask you to answer what action will the Bulgarian state take at the moment on the protection of the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine, while increasing the tensions, as well as in possible military actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u440	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u441	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Guncheva, thank you for your question. I have informed twice that we are in close contact through the Embassy of Bulgaria in Kiev with the entire Bulgarian community, including the smaller Bulgarian communities that you quoted. At this stage, I am not familiar with the problem posed in 2014, but I will take care to move this thing as a process for nothing else, but because, as you know, within the framework of the coalition agreement the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad is transformed as the Executive Agency of Bulgarians abroad. The intention of the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that this agency not just be a rubber stamp. This agency must really have a strategy for all Bulgarians abroad, be proactive and reflect all complaints, problems, so that they can be resolved as quickly as possible. Because in addition to foreign policy, one of the main tasks of the Foreign Ministry is to take care of Bulgarian citizens abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u442	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to the second round of questions to the Prime Minister Mr. Kiril Petkov. Is there a question for the Prime Minister? From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u443	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Prime Minister, the debate on questions and answers so far has been under way. We ask questions and we get weird answers that are literally the same. Conditionally, if I asked you last time if it was gonna rain tomorrow, you told me you had a refrigerator, but you didn't have cable TV. That's pretty much it. Now I'm going to ask you one more question, and I hope we still get some kind of answer on the ground. Firstly, the justified suspicions of the imminent military aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine forced NATO to consider measures to contain potential aggression. In addition to the increased presence of the eastern flank, NATO member states are also considering imposing severe sanctions on the Russian Federation. Some of these measures discussed contain the exclusion of the Russian Federation from the SWIFT payment system, as well as the freezing of Russian assets located in the territory of the United States, the European Union, including President Putin's personal assets. My question is as follows: what will be the government's position on these sanctions and when the time comes for the European Union to discuss its own bantage regime, what proposals will you have. What would you possibly support as part of the Sanction Mode, which will most likely include a ban on sales of high technology to the Russian Federation, for which there is no alternative in China? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u444	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u445	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mitov, yes, when it rains, you will hear from me three times, yes, it rains so that you do not mind. In relation to the measures which may be imposed as part of the common position of the European Union. First of all, I believe that if we can avoid this type of escalation that we would not want to see if we had to get there, especially if there is a real violation of international law by the Russian Federation, we, as I have said and clearly stated, will be a constructive partner in the European Union. We will have one common voice when these decisions are to be taken so that it can be seen that the Union is united and that, at this point, anyone who violates international law has its consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u446	Thank you, Prime Minister. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u447	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! He was wrong, Mr. Mitov, because the prime minister of these questions in the first round did not answer, but said he could not, because he would answer in the closed part contain such data. Here we come back to the fact that we had to have this conversation in another scenario. When I do this detour, I move on to the question. Mr. Prime Minister, the position of Bulgaria is a loyal member of NATO, the maximum efforts for diplomatic crisis resolution we welcome because this is the position of our party. The idea that we will not be consumers of national security is not true. The idea of membership of small countries such as Bulgaria in such an alliance is because in principle we consume security because we are a small country and have neither economy nor resources nor the opportunity to provide ourselves with self-defense. The question is: by consummating this security, to be loyal, predictable member and to carry our small share. However, my question is related to another.. as far as this crisis is still unpredictable, we all believe that a hot conflict will be avoided, but the cold conflict is still there and it can escalate to sanctions that will affect economic Bulgaria. It is clear that Bulgaria is dependent on Russia. It is clear that in Bulgaria, in principle, the economy is dependent on many such factors.. with more serious sanctions or an escalation of conflict, or by no means, in a hot conflict our economy could collapse in the literal sense of the word. My question is this: does the government provide for a crisis scenario where there will be sufficient resources to cover possible needs, possible deficits, possible losses. And in particular: is the reserve of energy raw materials fully filled, the food reserve, the reserve of everything that is needed in Bulgaria in one... [[Here you will tell me in the closed section, I am convinced, but anyway to ask the question]] [[Reply from.. We continue the Change.]] There is no way to justify a thesis within two minutes. If you want me to stop here and not ask a question. If that pleases you, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u448	Go on, Mr. Tsonev. Not from a place, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u449	But for the purposes of the debate, I think 30 seconds doesn't matter. Is there a scenario in the budget of a possible crisis situation, because we know that banks, when tested on their ecoures, make crisis situations? As far as I've seen the budget, there's no such scenario, and we think there should be. So my question is in this perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u450	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u451	Thanks for asking. Yes, we are currently analyzing the different scenarios, as we did with the health crisis, before the crisis itself. When it comes, we should be prepared to take ready measures, not to think about them after the situation has happened. The most important part is our energy security. For energy security, we have several direct proposals that I will share with you again, which would greatly compensate for the damage at such a time. The risk to national security from an energy point of view. I hope that, in fact, using this scenario, these steps, Bulgarian households and Bulgarian businesses will not feel a serious crisis from this point of view. From a financial point of view, it is also very important. The Minister of Finance has no version of the budget at this time that has predicted any sharp military situations... but there are buffers that can be used. And I know that you quite well understand this part, too, that these buffers can be used in times of crisis. Separately, as we all know, our debt as a percentage of gross domestic product is relatively low, so we always have the capacity to update and take additional loans if some incredible crisis comes out. I can appease all Bulgarians, no matter what scenario came to us, we have different options to mythigate these risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u452	Thank you, Prime Minister. Here's a question from BSP for Bulgaria. Do you have a question for the Prime Minister? From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u453	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister and Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The crisis that has caused all these hearings and declarations I am pleased that there is an opportunity for the government at such an early stage to enter into clarification, clarification of its geopolitical orientation and face-face. It's probably not something you planned at first, Mr. Prime Minister, but as they say, life is what happens when we make plans. This crisis, the aggravation of tensions on the border between Russia and Ukraine, is something that is happening at the moment, but it is happening in a much larger context, and this is the Kremlin's revenge policy, which started at least from 2008, with Putin's speech in Munich, in which he basically defined the very claim to review the principles of international order and restore the spheres of influence, particularly the Russian one in Eastern Europe. My question will be very much rhetorical. It relates to how far beyond what we have as imperatives, as a necessity for action and potential ones from the present moment, we are building a comprehensive risk policy for this rematchist policy. You have repeatedly made it clear that the government very carefully analyzes and prepares for the risks associated with energy, and this is absolutely correct. But it is not only energy, there are other systems, especially in the security system, which must be quite seriously sanitized because for a long time it was left on its own and in a state of high vulnerability to Russia's ability to influence. What can you share in the open section about your intentions in these other sectors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u454	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u455	Thanks for asking. One of the major deficits that we are currently discovering is the possibility of cybersecurity control, as our partners say. Cybersecurity is actually of great importance. Minister Bojanov has taken this topic very seriously. What I did yesterday I invited Minister Bojanov to be part of the Security Council to the Prime Minister because from now on the traditional ways of security that we are all accustomed to and have good capacity may not be enough for the new challenges. I hope that by the end of our mandate we will be able to boast of a very serious strategy not only for the e-government, but also for defence in the direction of cyber security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u456	Thank you, Prime Minister. From rebirth? Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u457	Mr. Chairman! Prime Minister, on several occasions you mentioned the expression that Bulgaria is a sovereign state, that it makes its own decisions that it has sovereignty. At the same time Bulgaria has been a NATO member for years. For years this NATO membership of Bulgaria has cost billions. Against him, we received participation in peacekeeping missions abroad and gave significant sacrifices. In a few words, we have received absolutely nothing, except that we have given blood tax because of what imperial ambitions some countries have. Moreover, our money was spent supporting the military industrial complexes of foreign partners. In this regard, we cannot accept that Bulgaria is a sovereign state. We cannot assume that there are four foreign military bases in Bulgaria. I cannot accept the military minister's reply that this is an equal use of these bases, provided that one of the main bases can enter only one and only one Bulgarian General, after express permission of the commander of the base; provided that on this base, if one of you goes and sees the sign, he will understand that there are American laws and not Bulgarian laws. After Bulgaria has agreed to have military bases and after the 10-year contract expires in 2024, today we introduced a request for parliament to discuss and oblige the Council of Ministers to terminate after one year of notice the contract in question to use the four US military bases in Bulgaria. In this regard, I hope that this time you will answer my question to you, not as you did earlier on whether you acknowledge or do not recognize Russia as an enemy, and you are talking about a green certificate. My question to you is specific: what is your personal opinion? Should there be foreign military bases in Bulgaria where we do not know what is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u458	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Come in for an answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u459	The sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria and independence begins with the way of thinking and the way of self-determination. As long as we believe that someone else determines our future and our policy depends on someone else, we probably will. But I can clearly tell you that the Bulgarian government believes that Bulgaria is a sovereign state, independent and from now on in every action we put the Bulgarian interest as the first. At the same time, we live in a global world. And we're in two alliances. By the way, I'd like to boast that we are also entering the third one, which is OECD, which means that we are in the privileged part of the world where funding is cheaper, where there is greater security, where law law law is leading in relations between allies and their partners. So I can clearly say that we are an independent state. By the way, even saying these are foreign bases is false. These are common facilities. As long as we treat them as foreign bases, we will not use the entire capacity of the Bulgarian Army in these facilities. The way of thinking, the strategy from now on needs to be looked at in a completely different way. These are also Bulgarian facilities. The control and capacity that they can give to the Bulgarian Army must be used as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u460	Thank you, Prime Minister. This ended the second round of questions to Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. We move on to the second round of questions to the Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev. Is there a question for Stefan Yanev? I won't. On behalf of GERB-SDS? Hristo Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u461	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister, we have listened to what you have said so far, by the government, and the principle of self-sufficientness that you have developed at today's meeting of the Council of Ministers, which, by the way, as you pointed out, gives us a level of security with Hungary. Everyone can draw from this point of view and political conclusions from this. But in order for everything you've presented as projects and as government commitments to make sense and become real, it takes money. And you know that very well. It takes a lot of money. You yourself said yesterday in the Defence Committee that our membership in the Alliance is actually helping us in defence spending. Speaking of which, in order for everything you have said about the sovereignty and the accelerated development of the Bulgarian armed forces, about the creation of this framework structure that you are offering, it needs money, and it needs money now, not by the way, 2024. That is, the government must now, in order for these plans to be realistic, now the government to offer 2% of GDP at least because you know very well that even 2% is not enough to solve most problems. We can no longer reason here after all your plans to continue on the spending increase plan until 2024 for the simple reason that you are completely changing the concept in this way with this development. I mean, from now on, Minister, at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers, will you insist on 2% being entered right now? By the way, here the debate why there are separate paragraphs, I think you can talk to the finance minister, it is not a question of parliament here. But here it is important to find out if there will be 2% and will there be a drastic increase in defence spending, because what you are proposing requires an increase in defence spending, and a drastic increase in defence spending. If you do not propose it and submit such an increase to the National Assembly, then it means that everything you have said so far is empty talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u462	Thank you for your question, Mr. Gadget. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u463	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gazhev, yes, the issue of financing his own army and building the armed forces of his own defensive potential costs money. Sometimes it costs more money than we anticipated, because we do not effectively manage to spend the money we have available. In this sense, the efforts we are making as a team the management of the Ministry of Defence is precisely to focus on efficiency. Let's find the way, the mechanisms that need support at an interinstitutional level, first, in the Council of Ministers' composition, then the executive legislative power relations, including with a change of legislation. This analysis is being done right now and is preparing. With regard to this year's budget for 2022, we have made proposals that have passed a round discussion with the Ministry of Finance, the draft budget to be reviewed in the Council of Ministers. Yes, the figures that are already public are going to public discussion and are between 1.7 and 2%, if I am not mistaken. This process, in my opinion, has not been completed, even though this framework is going to public discussion, I suppose, in the case of an appropriate argumentation and with the possibilities proposed by the legal way to make such changes, between the two readings more necessary changes that this National Assembly considers necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u464	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It's a DPS question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u465	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! We of the Parliamentary Group of "Rights and Freedoms Movement" are very anxious to monitor what is happening in the Black Sea region, the risks and challenges in the context of the complicated security environment as a result of tensions in Ukraine and the NATO axis of Russia. Bulgaria, as a loyal ally of the Alliance, is aware of the consequences of possible escalation of the conflict. And in this regard, in view of the current situation, my question to you, Minister, is: has a strategic analysis and evaluation been made and what is necessary as a resource for structuring this battalion battle group of Bulgarian troops and the corresponding command, which you announced in your speech today.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u466	Thank you, Mr. Kulkov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u467	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Kulkov! This type of assessment of financial commitments, this type of analysis is being carried out at the moment. He is not ready in full detail, in full necessity in terms of the necessary resources and how exactly they could be spent. Because when we talk about spending public resources, we should be responsible enough to explain to the Bulgarian citizens what and exactly how we spend these public resources. So the answer to my question is: the analysis is continuing and as this type of decision is yet to be made at NATO level, we have time, we will do this analysis and we will have the right estimate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u468	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there a question from the BSP for Bulgaria? I won't. There is such a people? I can't see. The Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Atanas Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u469	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! My question is related to a topic which has already been discussed in a single format yesterday in the Defence Committee. It is about the upcoming mission of Spanish and Dutch forces in connection with the implementation of the Air Polysling and distribution here in combat aviation, and undoubtedly the most modern currently consuming fifth generation F-35 will participate in this mission, whether it is possible for any more specific parameters to be presented in a public meeting, or whether this is a matter that we will have to discuss in a closed session. That is, we know, so to speak, the initial stage of this mission, in which, as you said, there is nothing extraordinary, but what is the period during which this mission will take place in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u470	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u471	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, yes, as I had the opportunity to mention yesterday during the meeting of the Defence Committee, there is nothing unusual in this mission, it is already a routine type of mission for NATO, which has been taking place since 2016 in one region or another and in Bulgaria has already been conducted at least twice with contingents of the Armed Forces of Italy and the United States. In this case, we are talking about two consecutive engagements of other countries with fourth and fifth generation aeroplanes. The first period of this type of joint workout and joint implementation of the task is with a Spanish contingent, which is expected to arrive in early February, more precisely after 7 February, and before that their logistics elements will arrive and their period of participation in this type of joint workout and joint implementation of the task will be from mid-February until the end of March. This contingent will then return to its country and in April we expect the deployment of a contingent of the Dutch Armed Forces. This contingent will now be the fifth generation F-35 aircraft you mentioned. The Spanish contingent will be with the model "Eurofiter." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u472	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And a final question to the Minister of Defence from the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u473	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, so far we haven't received many adequate answers to our questions, so I'm going to ask you a little bit more specific. My question is this: Is the Bulgarian Army capable of responding adequately to a massive air strike and a naval landing, no matter what country this thing comes from, something it was able to do just over 30 years ago. Please tell me your opinion on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u474	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u475	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! To the specific question the answer to the abilities and capabilities of the Bulgarian Army to perform a certain type of tasks we have enough documents, national documents I mean, which say and show these abilities and opportunities to society. One such document is the Annual Report on the state of defence, which is traditionally submitted to the National Assembly, and given that this year's preparation, you can look at the wordings in the last year, where it is said that Bulgaria is fulfilling its obligations, i.e. the armed forces, the Bulgarian army are able to fulfil their constitutional obligations on the protection of sovereignty and national integrity, and to this end we also rely on NATO's potential. This is why Bulgaria is part of the NATO political-military union, to share these responsibilities and so that we can afford, in this case we are talking about a wishing level, to spend 2% of GDP on defence, and not much more than this amount if we were in another configuration or with some kind of political neutrality. From all of this, I would like to say the following: defence of the country, security is a key pillar in the system of national interest, national interest and public interest, as well as to arrange them in any combination, there must be a pillar of security, there is a pillar of defence. Defence, security is expensive, but this price we as a society need to be sure we pay it consciously, because on the basis of this money spent on defence and security, we have the opportunity to develop other state development opportunities. The other parameters are to have the opportunity to develop our business, our economy and, accordingly, to finance education, healthcare and all other sectors needed for the normal functioning of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u476	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This concludes this round of questions to the Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev. We are moving on to a second round of questions to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Teodora Genchovska. Are there any questions from? Continue Changing? I won't. From GERB-SDS? Ekaterina Zaharieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u477	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! As I have already said, your report has made the only political assessment in my view today and in terms of the actions of the Russian Federation. And in this regard, I am extremely surprised and ask you: what was the reason you did not call, if not you personally, someone from the Ministry of Deputy Minister, anyway represent you almost everywhere, a director who you judge, and express the sharp disagreement about another intervention in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria by the Russian Federation? Moreover, in the very opinion, which was the only thing we had heard before about the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this topic from the 21st, you are calling on the Russian Federation to show respect for the conscious foreign policy choice of the Republic of Bulgaria and to remain engaged in dialogue with the countries, meaning what was the reason not to call the Russian Ambassador to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because this is much stronger than a press release?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u478	Thank you for your question, Mrs. Zaharieva. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u479	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ms. Zaharieva, the statement of the Foreign Minister of the Russian Federation was the result of his bilateral meeting. We believe that at this stage and in the context of the allied actions that we have taken in diplomatic relations, it was not appropriate to call the Ambassador of the Russian Federation at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u480	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Is there a question on behalf of the DPS? Stanislav Anastasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u481	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister Yanev, Dear Minister Gencovska, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Minister Gencovska, from the media we understand that our neighbours, as well as most EU and NATO members, but not only do they have serious diplomatic activity on the subject. For example, we learned that yesterday evening there was a meeting at the level of political advisors in the format of the Normandy Four between Russia, Ukraine, France and Germany. Please give us a little more information about the results of the meeting, as well as the planned future diplomatic activity of the Bulgarian state with our partners from the European Union and NATO on the topic. Please feel free to express this part of the meeting that you consider to be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u482	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u483	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You know that the format of the Normand Four is another element of the level of diplomatic discussions. At this point, frankly, I'm not familiar with the results yet. What I do know is that Germany and France are playing a rather balanced position aimed at deescalation of tensions, striving to continue dialogue in this format. In the case of information about the specific results, I undertake to inform you personally. With regard to the other part, if you can really stay in the rest of the sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u484	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Is there a question from the BSP for Bulgaria? I won't. There is such a people? Same. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? No. And from the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u485	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues! Ms. Gencovska, we understand that the Bulgarian government has no contact with our compatriots in Tavria and Donbas. My question is: do we also have contact with the Bulgarians in Ukraine who are in Crimea - 2500 people, in two Bulgarian communities? What does the Bulgarian government do and how it interacts and communicates with them, and are we actually prepared to provide them with a possible conflict, to take care of their safety and security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u486	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u487	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Perhaps at the risk of repeating myself again, besides the Embassy of Bulgaria in Kiev and the general consulates are in contact with those Bulgarian citizens who have the opportunity for feedback. Every day, the foreign ministry teams provide information regarding their wishes, whether they want to be evacuated, in what state families are healthy, and so on. The evacuation plans were sent yesterday, as I have already answered, I am thinking of a question by the Minister of Defence, organized together with the Minister of Defence, which began planning, where necessary using the funds of the armed forces, in case there is a difficulty of civilian carriers evacuating people who want to be evacuated, because at this stage we have no information about such requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u488	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We have also concluded the second round of questions to Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska. And now we should move on to expression by the groups. From the parliamentary group we continue the Change. Nastimir Ananiev, come in, you have five minutes to express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u489	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! We heard there was an escalation of a problem, but there shouldn't be a political escalation like that in the country. I think it is very important that there should be a union on the subject that does not allow for interpretations that, in fact, national interest should be in the first place and not only the national interest, but also the security of Bulgarian citizens, without going into any such hysteria, if I may say so. What is important to me is that the situation itself, which is necessary, raises many questions about the condition of the Bulgarian army, which certainly needs modernization and we must certainly be able to have a well-prepared army that will be a good ally and partner of NATO. Not only NATO, we are also the European Union, so the positions on the conflict and I think we have proved to be a good partner of both organizations, our positions are united, should remain such, the interest of the Bulgarian citizens should be in the first place. I think the Council of Ministers is prepared for different situations. We hope to receive, of course, a little more information at the closed session, which will follow, but what I personally call on is on such topics relating to foreign policy, not to try to derive internal political dividends, because it is not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u490	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. On behalf of GERB-SDS. Radomir Cholakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, why is the Prime Minister not here, who may be entitled to hear the relations, or is this an expression of attitude towards the topic and to the National Assembly? Colleagues, I do not know how many years ago the National Assembly last held such a discussion and a hearing was held about the state of the country on the threshold of a possible armed conflict, quite close to our borders. [[Reply from "We are continuing the Change": "12 years is gone."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u492	The previous Prime Minister wasn't coming.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u493	I want to tell you what woke up my hearing. The hearing aroused concern that we do not have strong leadership at the moment, for that we continue to analyze and monitor the escalation and hope for the deescalation, that is, this reminds me of a phrase from a statesman from the very distant past who said: "Drugari, we have to lower ourselves! " At least I have that feeling. We understand that NATO will support Bulgaria with a Bulgarian battalion. We do not know what the other Bulgarian army is not a NATO army and what it will do during this time and exactly what it will do with this NATO Bulgarian battalion, other than what the Bulgarian army does. And it seems to me, colleagues, that in a situation where we are talking about a potential war, political leadership, state leadership, it required that we here hear a slightly more specific answer, a little more manly answer to a few very specific questions. What is our attitude if we have to, God forbid, to dramatically increase the ability of this territory or the ability to protect with living power and military equipment in this territory? What are we doing? What do we do with the economy if we assume that in the coming months there is no deescalation that we dream of and the Black Sea is full of troops? You understand what happens to tourism, don't you? Today, the highest political body of our party, of our coalition, noted that it is about 10 billion of the gross domestic product that generates tourism. What are the measures, does the government have a vision of how it compensates or how it addresses the allies and how it develops, together with our allies, any compensation mechanisms for all industries? The question was raised as to what was going on with the state reserve. I will put another question that has been going on in my head for some time: is there a public media action plan in a situation of... not saying the word. I've worked in public media, and I know there were such plans.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u494	They're not government. They're public.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u495	As I know, Mr. Karimansky, there's a wartime center.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u496	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u497	So, and I'm curious what his condition is, is he equipped with the necessary equipment, and is he ready to broadcast if he has to, God forbid? Colleagues, we talked here last week about the word force major. Now that's a force majeure. What are the telecommunication means by which, God forbid, the government will have to organise the country's communication? What is the function of the Military Television Channel, and does it have a purpose in such a situation? I'm asking these questions now. I'm going to ask them in writing in a few days and give you time, Minister Yanev, to answer me when the time is right, in the sense of doing the job. So, colleagues, I miss leadership personally, I miss the specifics. I have the feeling that we are descending and waiting for the storm to pass, but I will end by saying that the state, colleagues, exists not for anything else, the state as an institution exists not for anything else, but to protect its citizens in the event of a crisis and in the event of war. It serves to ensure the security of the citizens, not to have any debates or to go to Brussels, to have lunch, to have dinner or to go to the movies. The state serves to protect its citizens in the event of war and in the event of disaster. And I missed the clear messages from the government tonight.. what it has foreseen and what it has done to protect its country and its citizens in case of, God forbid, the evil that we fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u498	To make a contribution on behalf of the DPS parliamentary group. Mr. Karadayi, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u499	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There are topics on which it is not necessary and there is no need for differences, divisions and opposition and on which everyone does not need to be made a specialist and speaker. That's the subject. Bulgaria has made its geopolitical choice. We are members of NATO and the European Union. The movement for rights and freedoms through its leader Dr. Ahmed Dogan set this direction for the development of Bulgaria at the dawn of democracy, before all other parties, before the then that are not there today, and before the present ones that were not there then, and until recently they were gone. But we must clearly state a few things. Firstly, we are a loyal and reliable partner in the alliances in which we are members. Secondly, Ukraine and Russia are our neighbours at sea. Third, whether we are on good or bad terms with the neighbor when he burns down his house, we know that we have a problem too. Fourth, we must make every effort to deescalate the tension as long as we have the opportunity. Fifth, we're against redecorating the borders in the 21st century, even less through military conflicts. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u500	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria? There's no expression of attitude. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u501	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers! We in the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" believe that your participation today is a manifestation of and there is a strong commitment of the state, political, diplomatic potential, of the capacity of the special services to assess all aspects of the escalation of the situation. With this you have brought peace, so much needed peace to the country and to society. We welcome your request, Mr. Prime Minister, and your conversion with a face of the executive with regard to the existing country's defence deficits, which means re-evaluation of defence policy and the implementation of any resources, capacity, including financial ones, to avoid these deficits. Of course, the decision to send planes F-35 and Eurofighter here, also Spanish frigates in the Black Sea, are an expression of solidarity. We welcome this, it is in other aspects. Gentlemen of the National Assembly, we believe that true solidarity is manifesting itself in relation to art. 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty. At the moment, we do not have such an environment, we do not have such a need, there is no scope, depth, actions, aggression and so on. So the decision to form the basis of the Bulgarian Armed Forces of a battalion battle group that is a functional group can be changed to perform tasks and subordinate to the chain of command of the Bulgarian Army is a good solution. It will have its benefits, in fact, as forces of the Alliance to which we belong. Just a little note. On the occasion of all these things, which have been spoken everywhere recently by political scientists, specialists, public figures, about the unchangeable need for the deployment of multinational operational forces in Bulgaria or some other countries, not to be exactly a Bulgarian division, honourable Members of the National Assembly, we believe that this issue is not a matter of competition between the individual countries, but is a matter of necessity in the given situation. There's no need for that right now. The ground forces are able to really broadcast one such battle group, form it, be fully equipped. If necessary with all attributes and external features of a multinational NATO brigade. The Chief of Defense is here, and he can cooperate with that. This, in our view, is the result of a multidimensional decision in the political aspect. The issue of Bulgarian military aviation is very complicated. She's practically on the ground. There's no resource. The next two or three years, things are getting more complicated. By this we do not have much to measure our fairy tales, veiled it is a military technical collapse for the Bulgarian army and for the state. I think the word political failure can be used to some extent. It is not the place to discuss what and how, but until the new planes arrive and the new decision on additional military planes is made, the existing technique must be maintained. The balance in the structure of the armed forces is particularly necessary. So once again, to say that your request to Parliament here to address the deficits in the Bulgarian Army is very important. In conclusion, the position and actions we believe are adequate to the situation, measured and thoughtful of the country and society. We believe that all diplomatic, political, military and military efforts should continue, the efforts of the services to deepen and continue the efforts of all this national capacity together with maintaining contact with the allies and constantly monitoring the situation. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u502	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. On behalf of
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u503	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! On behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, I will allow myself to enter into a dispute with Mr. Cholakov. Because he's talking about the way he gets out of this hearing, and I'm going to share my impressions. I have to say that my feeling is more about encouraging and optimism............. because of all the complexity of the situation we are in. I'll be honest with you. Bulgaria is currently governed by an extremely complex coalition, especially on such topics, which, of course, are not first desired by any politician to deal with them and no leader is concerned with them. The complexity of this coalition can easily become a factor of inactivity, a pathless one on such complex challenges. We from "Democratic Bulgaria" started with concern about the sector "Secretary" which from the very beginning we shared publicly from the very beginning that this was not the subject of sufficient prioritization at the beginning. This crisis and this situation have somewhat begun to change the priorities, and we see some messages that I am pleased to hear personally. It seems to me that it is positive and it is worth not just because we are part of the government, but because it is good for Bulgaria. Yes, perhaps not with great desire, yes, perhaps despite the difficulties, yes, perhaps going through a stage of such puzzling posts on Facebook and personal opinions of cabinet members, but today we are in a situation where we have a prime minister who has twice come to parliament to state his position very clearly. We can't help but notice this thing. By the way, you also pointed it out - Mr. Mitov and Mrs. Zaharieva noted it - a clear confirmation as a government position that Bulgaria will actively use NATO as a main platform for guaranteeing its security and as a main platform for participation in the guarantees for the stability of the region in which we are located. Today, what we are hearing, although yes, I admit that the idea of Bulgaria becoming a framework nation itself is quite creative, but to look at the substance. The awareness and emphasis that we need to make a very serious investment in our own defence is something positive. Maybe it wasn't something that was the initial priority of the cabinet, but here's where the events take him out to the fore and I'm hopeful of this thing. I am hopeful and sure that we will sooner or later tell the Bulgarian society honestly that yes, Bulgarian security will be guaranteed with NATO, including through, where necessary, and to the extent necessary, deployment of other NATO formations on our territory. There's nothing to be afraid of. That makes sense. It's part of the development of our capacity. That's how we should look at it. We need to invest in our own defense. We must invest purposefully and consistently in our security in many other areas. Including in energy, including cybersecurity, including in the state of the services and other institutions on which national security depends, including with regard to the fight against corruption, which has always been a huge portal through which foreign influences, including mainly Russian, have entered Bulgaria. All this crystallized in these few days on the occasion of the Ukrainian crisis. We from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria will work to ensure that it is not something conjunctural and instant. I am sure of what I saw as the Prime Minister's reaction that we will work with him in absolute consensus from this point of view. In that sense, I think we see leadership. I thank Prime Minister Petkov for that. We, as a society and as a country, will have to start taking our security much more seriously. Much more honest to talk about it, much clearer to understand that we will have to invest in it. Because there is an ancient principle and it is: whoever wants peace, as we all want, must be ready.. I will not say war, but for defence. Let's edit the ancients so lightly. We need to be ready for defense to a much higher extent in all the systems we have. I am glad that the government showed instinct, showed a reflex so early at the beginning of its work, with such a complex situation in which it turned out to really send out some clear messages in this regard. In the face of "Democratic Bulgaria" there will be a force that will work very seriously to continue and this thing to become a stable orientation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u504	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. On behalf of ARCHIVER, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u505	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister! The topic of today's meeting was whether there were any threats regarding the complicated situation around the Russian-Ukrainian border. We are indeed neighbours with Ukraine and with Russia at the Black Sea aquatory, it was logical to still make such an extraordinary meeting, although some of us here are very salting the food, trying to create a problem where it is not. The big question was whether Russia is a threat to us at the moment or not, because ultimately we do not expect an exemplary attack from Georgia on the other side of the Black Sea, or from Abkhazia, Turkey is our ally, Romania, too, so there simply is no one left. And Ukraine, of course, for which we are now very concerned and we shed crocodile tears. The big question was whether Russia poses a threat to us. If it is a threat to us, let's talk, act, prepare, mobilize our limited, unfortunately crippled in the last 20 years, in fact 18 since 2004 is Bulgaria's entry into NATO, mobilization and strategic defence potential. Let's go this way. There is hardly any Bulgarian citizen, not only by ID, but also by behavior, who is not ready to react immediately. There are still people here who have served in the barracks, and I guess it wouldn't be a problem for a mobilization to get involved. However, I did not hear an answer to that question. There was no answer! We have heard that Bulgaria is a sovereign state. Unfortunately, Bulgaria is not a sovereign state because, if it were, the sovereign prime minister immediately answers this question: yes, a threat is In the same way are the other questions raised by us, especially for the presence of foreign troops in Bulgaria. Of course, I've read the treaty, we can talk a lot about how subtle the wording is and whether there are really joint military facilities, commanded by Bulgarian generals and so on. I've been there, and I know what it says at the entrance to these joint military facilities. It says here that the Law of the American State of Defense has been in effect since 1949. He writes in English in large letters and in Bulgarian in small letters. First is the American flag, then our Bulgarian flag is a little further down. It's the law in the United States. By the way, the Bulgarian flag should always be above the others in Bulgaria as well. But whatever. It is evident that this territory is not ours at the moment, it is evident that it enjoys an extrasterior status. Whether on the basis of the treaty, or just our American partners, allies, masters, as you like to call them, have finished their contract, that is another topic. The big question is that at the moment, unfortunately, Bulgaria does not demonstrate sovereign behaviour. Yes, you call it a very important one of you, we call it a handmaiden. Next, I would like to say that the vast majority of the Bulgarian people are not worried about what is happening. There may also be people who have such concerns in fact in the last few days of the tensions, especially in the media, because there is a big argument there, whether Russia will attack us or not. However, the truth is that the vast majority of the population is currently excited about other problems related to the price of electricity, inflation, energy prices, fuel prices and so on and so forth. These are the important questions for them! I wonder whether I should say thank God, although it is not a thank God, because this hysteria right now, which we are commenting here, which is exceptional and only for internal political use, instant, now, will pass, but the problem of inflation, with the spike in energy prices, with bread prices even if you will, and everything else will remain. These are the important questions. We have drawn the conclusions of the discussion held today. Unfortunately, we do not feel that Bulgaria is actually governed here, by the National Assembly or by the Council of Ministers. We can't really talk about the Minister's. We can't talk about the marionette council. It's pathetic, it's sad, for all of us, it's pathetic and sad, because no one wants to say those things. But on the other hand, the truth, even if it's ugly, we have to tell each other so we can fight it and not let it happen anymore. It is high time that the Bulgarian policy was said here by one of the speakers before me, and I agree with him, it is high time that the Bulgarian policy has more men, male behaviours, because both of them are responses, but I do not know.......................... Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u506	Colleagues, let us refrain from insulting our own state institutions. With the expression of respect on behalf of the parliamentary group of a party, the opening part of this extraordinary meeting shall also be concluded. I ask the Quaestors to invite all outsiders to leave the hall and balconies, to suspend the direct broadcast on BNT 2 and BNR as well as on the Internet. I remind the Members of the National Assembly and all the others that the discussions and minutes of the closed part of the meeting constitute classified information and bind it to the respective duties.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. About phones, colleagues, internal rules require that they be left outside the room, so... [[Noise and lines.]] I'm taking five minutes off so we can meet this requirement and then go back to the gym. [[After the closed part.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-26.u507	That concludes today's extraordinary session. The next regular meeting will take place tomorrow at 9.00 on the agenda voted earlier today. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
