ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u1	Honourable colleagues, please register. Colleagues online are: Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u2	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u3	And Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u5	Registered 175 MPs in the hall and 2 online There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] The National Assembly's Work Programme for the Period... Procedure? Declaration? Mr. Georgiev, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Given the importance of today's agenda, I propose that the meeting be broadcast on BNT 2 and on BNR. [[noise and lines]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u7	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. If you want to clarify the Programme first and then move on to your proposal, because the two hearings that are in the Project of the Programme will be broadcast on BNT 2 and BNR anyway. So let us first move on to the Programme and we will return to your proposal. Draft Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for the period 16 March 2022: "1." Draft Law on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on donation by and between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of a vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH and a Bilateral Agreement on donation between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 26 January 2022 On this point remained the vote, the discussion was held last Thursday. "2." Second vote on the Bill on Covered Bonds. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2021. Adopted in first vote on 3 February 2022. 3. Hearing of the Chairman of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the status of crisis centres led by the State Agency for Refugees and the Agency's readiness to provide expert and translation assistance. The importer is Elisaveta Belobradova on 9 March 2022. 4. Hearing of the Head of the Operational Coordination Group on the Evacuation and Accommodation of Refugees from Ukraine Valeri Rachev on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Government Measures relating to the Refugee Wave. Importer is Desislava Atanasova on 15 March 2022. 5. Draft annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues (2022) . Importer of the European Union Committee on 11 March 2022 That's the five points in the program for today. Point six is first on Thursday. It's six. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act. Importers are Andrey Gurov, Hristo Ivanov, Victoria Vasileva and Georgi Svilenski on 15 February 2022. Point 1 for Thursday, 17 March 2022 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 10 December 2021. Adopted in first vote on 10 February 2022. Point 2 for Thursday, 17 March 2022 8. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2022. Point 3 for Thursday, 17 March 2022 9. Hearing of the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund Petko Salchev on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Reforms for Granting, Payback, Repair and Control for the Provision of Aids and Appliances for the Needs of Disabled People in the Law on Persons with Disabilities. Importers are Elisaveta Belobradova and Alexander Simidchiev, item four for Thursday. 10. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly " Friday, 18 March 2022, from 9.00 until 14.00 Five hours total. This is the Project of the program I proposed. Please vote. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u9	Thank you. And Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u10	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u11	The votes voted 179 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online "181:" for 145 in the Chamber and 2 online " 147" for a total, not against, abstention 34. The motion is accepted. We move on to proposals for inclusion on the agenda on the basis of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules: The first proposal is by Elisaveta Belobradova for a hearing of the President of the State Agency for Refugees. It is included in the Programme, so we do not put it to the vote. The next proposal for a hearing of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund is also included in the Programme................................................................................................. The same applies to the proposal by Desislava Atanasova for a hearing of Valeri Rachev and it is included in the Program. There was a proposal from GERB parliamentary group for inclusion as a point in the Program for Hearing the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Cyril Petkov on the measures of the government to control the price crisis. Please vote on GERB-SDS' proposal for inclusion of a point in the Programme of the Prime Minister's hearing. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u12	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u13	Thank you. And Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u14	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u15	They voted 188 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online. 190 total: for 78 in the Chamber and 1 online. 79 total, against 102, abstention 8 in the Chamber and 1 online. 9 total. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal in the order of art. 47, para. 3 is from the parliamentary group of "There is such a people." The proposal is to include in the Programme the following point: Project of a decision to adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as procedure for selection by the National Assembly. The proposal is that the point should be the first in the weekly programme, i.e. the first one for today. Please vote on the proposal of.. There is such a people............ there is such a people.......................... there is such a people. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u16	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u17	And Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u19	Thank you. They voted 193 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 195" total: 99 in the Chamber and 2 online "101" total, against 32, abstention 62. The motion is accepted. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] It's a re-vote. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u20	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u21	And Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u22	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u23	Okay, I'm calling off this vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u24	The first vote is still accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u25	And we've never done that before. [[Noise and lines.]] We voted third...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u26	That's what we did.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u27	That's what we did. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u28	No, no rest, absolutely not, please. Come in, Mrs. Atanasova. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u29	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, once again precedent in the Chamber at 9:15 pm the National Assembly no longer has a quorum, and why...... because the majority of the.. We continue the Change............................ is not registered. Something that you've been saying for months that's the opposition's favorite. Well, yeah, why did that happen? Because at the Coalition Council you probably didn't understand how to replace the requirements of the Governor of BNB with one much lower in terms of the education of a candidate for governor of BNB. Dear colleagues, you are making a mistake after a mistake. As you have changed ad hock and unconstitutional requirements regarding the president of KEWRC, you are now trying to do so for one of the oldest Bulgarian institutions. However, this does not go unnoticed. Bear in mind that we demand that procedural rules, as proposed, be discussed, because the National Assembly is precisely the body that must take such an important decision. And if you oppose it, perhaps you will oppose it within a day, as you did today and entered into a super weird hypothesis that a decision already adopted cannot be respoken. Mr President, you can only declare a decision adopted under item 1 of the agenda, that is to say a discussion of procedural rules, or, if you believe that there was no quorum in the second vote, you may request a third vote, as you normally do when expecting a different result, or if you consider that there was no quorum in the second vote, you may request a third vote, as you normally do when you expect a different outcome, or you may terminate the meeting of the National Assembly. You choose. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u30	Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u31	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Eva Miteva is on the video wall, as you know I will quote what she says, because unfortunately, our system is not yet such that people can speak from there.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u32	They can, they can, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u33	They can, okay. I will quote her, if she wants to repeat it: If no one has challenged the quorum and there are 62 votes, the decision is adopted. [[Applause from IHN and GERB-SDS. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u34	Are there any other procedures? Thomas Bikov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First, I will agree with what Mr. Tosko Yordanov said, who quoted Iva Miteva as I think a third vote is generally absurd. However, in the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly, we adopted 121 votes to adopt laws and decisions. Now we fall into the trap of the forty-fiveth National Assembly and the forty-seventh National Assembly, where we adopted the practice of voting third, fourth, fifth, sixth vote because there was no act so you explained here! What's the conclusion? Don't touch things that work for 30 years, they didn't work for a reason for 30 years. You, with the self-esteem that you can make a new start anywhere, have proved that this metaphor is often used by me that you have reached back into contact and again the same thing happened to you again! Now you're wondering what to do. Was that an act just now? Was there an act after the President said: "Cut off the vote" but it was not a vote by your logic, not by ours? So now think about what to do, and if you learn a lesson, it's good to go back to some of the things that you've been working on. They have not even been invented by us. " Some of them have been invented since the Grand National Assembly. And just start working on normal rules, not yours! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u36	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Are there any other procedures? I won't. Colleagues, I believe that what Tosko Yordanov read is correct and I understand that Eva Miteva pointed out. [[Applause from IHN]] Indeed, I believe that this is the case at first there is a valid will, so the proposal is accepted on this basis. [[Replications from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Ivan Chenchev.]] Wait a minute. I canceled the re-voting. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The proposal is accepted on this basis. And that remains the final offer under art. 47, para. 3, which is from the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT. [[Definitions between MP Tsoncho Ganev and Chairman Nikola Minchev.]] The proposal of the parliamentary group of a party is a bill for amendment and supplement of the Health Act, with entry No 47-154-01-2 from 10 December 2021. The proposal states that the item should be the first on the agenda for Wednesday, but Mr. Ganev has now amended it to be the first item for Thursday. So this is the proposal of AGE for inclusion in the Programme. Please, voting mode. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u37	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u38	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u39	Abstention. They voted 203 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 205" total: for 87 in the Chamber and 1 online "88," against 90, abstentioned 26 in the Chamber and 1 online "27." The offer is not accepted. This has exhausted the proposals under art. 47, para. 3. Procedure, Hristo Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Because my procedure is not about the program, so I waited for these debates to pass. Mr. Chairman, if you recall, on 4 February we adopted a decision of the National Assembly, which commissioned the Council of Ministers to submit a report, basically, on the state of the facilities along our southern border for a period of one month. It's March 16th. That means from February 4th to March 16th, at least according to my calendar, a month has expired. If you can, let us know if the Council of Ministers is fulfilling its duty. Will he submit the report, do you have any information on how it is going, or did he take it mainly as an importer, or rather for information? Because it is still a decision of the National Assembly and must be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u41	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I'm gonna check this case out. Perhaps the delay was caused by the personal shift of the Defence Minister, who was addressed to this decision mostly. I'll check the question. Thank you. Angel Georgiev's proposal was for BNT 2 and BNR. Mr. Georgiev, do you support the offer for the whole day to have BNT 2 and BNR? Okay. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We vote on the proposal. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u42	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u43	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u44	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u45	They voted 203 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 205" total: 96 in the Chamber and 1 online "97," against 20, 87 abstentions in the Chamber and 1 online "88." The offer is not accepted. We move on to item one on the agenda, which is: Draft decision to adopt procedural rules on terms and conditions for proposing candidates... Just a second. Mr. Kostadinov? Affidavit. All right, here's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u46	Mr. Chairman, yesterday's Bulgarian media reported a visit to our country from the Minister of Defence of the United States of America Lloyd Austin. The reason for this visit to Europe is focused on the support of the allies of the United States of America in Europe. Obviously, the Bulgarian government is unable to see that our allies, the so-called ones, are doing everything necessary to lead us to a military conflict in which we do not have a role that is taking place along the eastern border of the Alliance and threatens to turn Bulgaria into a front line. The government may know by looking with its wide closed eyes and led by the quest only one how to serve foreign interest and foreign national cause. This is perhaps an explanation for the fact that our country's defence is being provided in the hands of the country at the moment, and not only to foreign troops and foreign generals. We all see what is happening in Ukraine, which, albeit one-sided by American propaganda, shows one undeniable thing - people are dying on both sides. The Bulgarian governments appointed by the United States for years govern our country so that they provide Bulgarian land, goods, our lives, that of our children in the hands of a foreign country for the benefit of a foreign national interest. But the time has come to re-found the Bulgarian state, the time has come for it to start functioning with care for the Bulgarians. Bulgaria must be the country to give us Bulgarians what we need in this time we live in, security, in order to preserve peace in the country in troubled times. Yesterday, however, in his speech, Bulgarian Prime Minister Kiril Petkov said literally the following: "The only option is to tilt our head, hide in the grass and say: "I hope this storm passes by us." We are a small, independent, independent, cowardly state. The other option is to say: no, we are tired of Bulgaria not being able to decide its own destiny, not having a voice, only to lower itself, always the great powers to decide something about us. The other thing to say is that the Bulgarian Prime Minister continues: the good thing is that we have made the fact that we are not part of NATO, we are NATO; we are not in the EU; we are not in the EU; we are the EU. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] It turns out that, according to the Bulgarian Prime Minister, independence is an expression of cowardice and dependence is a reason for pride. In this regard, it is necessary to ask the following question: exactly how does the visit of the Minister of Defence of the United States of America to Bulgaria Lloyd Austin assist our national security and how does it help to preserve the Bulgarian national interest? We also remind that our government has and needs to discuss some very important issues with Lloyd Austin. First of all, what happens to the blueprints of airplanes that the government of GERB and the so-called Patriots purchased for more than 2 billion. lv.? For what reason is the F-16 contract classified at the request of the American side? Even if separate technical applications concerning the work and capabilities of individual systems are secret, the general terms and conditions of the contract, price and time limit concerning the public funds of the Bulgarian taxpayers must be transparent, but they are not. To clarify these details, the caretaker government, such as GERB and the so-called Patriots, and the current Coalition, requested more blueprints of planes for which the Bulgarian citizen will pay. There's no one else. Secondly, the following question must be asked to the United States Defence Minister and reminded him that there are four American bases on our territory, for which the Metropolitan does not pay rent to the colony. The contract for them is now timeless, it is high time to end it. The government has requested that the government begin proceeds on the withdrawal of foreign bases serving foreign national interests in Bulgaria. We remind you that in the history of Bulgaria our country has never allowed foreign bases on its territory, anything. Even after it was occupied in 1919 and in 1944, the Bulgarian state under conditions for signing the truce obliges the winners, although it is quite difficult to do, but our politicians and diplomats then did so, not to have foreign occupation territories and bases on our side. And let's just say these aren't NATO bases. These are U.S. bases. Because the contract was not signed between Bulgaria and NATO, but was signed between Bulgaria and the United States. There are, of course, solutions and they are hiding in an initial and fundamental action, a re-foundation of the state, working institutions guaranteeing our national security, strengthening the army, which only and only it under the Constitution can protect our country. The same constitution as the president and prime minister have already trampled, showing only one national betrayal. Finally, I can say this: Bulgaria is not NATO, Bulgaria is not the European Union, as Bulgaria was not the Trilateral Pact in 1941 and it was not the Warsaw Treaty. The alliances, pacts and treaties are temporary phenomena, they have one single goal.. to serve the Bulgarian national interest, and when they are no longer in favor of the Bulgarian national interest, new allies are found, new contracts are signed and new pacts are concluded. It has been, and will be, and not only in the Bulgarian history, but also in the world, because there are no eternal friends and eternal allies, there are eternal interests. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u47	Mr. Kostadinov, thank you for the declaration. I did not interrupt you, but still such qualifications to Bulgarian governments that they were appointed by foreign embassies, regardless of which political power governments are or which are dominated, we should not make out of the current tribune. Thanks for understanding. Before we go to point one, colleagues, there is an oath of a Member of the National Assembly. The Central Election Commission has decreed Decision No 1124-NS of 11 March 2022 on the announcement of Deyan Petev Petkov and Hristinka Ilycheva Ivanova as MPs in the Fifteenth Election Region of Plevenski, in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. In a letter, I went. Decision of the National Assembly of 9 March 2022 was received on the basis of Article 10 March 2022 of the CEC. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of the National Representative Ventsislav Ivanov Petkov from the Fifteenth Election Region of Plevenski, erected by the party. By Decision No 1037-NS of 14 December 2021 the Central Election Commission announced the next in the list under No 4 Deyan Petev Petkov as MP for the time during which Radostin Petev Vassilev served as Minister. By Decision No 1106-NS of 17 February 2022 on the basis of an application received, the Central Election Commission decided not to announce Dimcho Ivanov Deshev as No 5 in the list of elected MPs. The Central Election Commission in implementation of art. 302 of the Election Code and in accordance with Decision No 8 of 16 May 1993 on Constitutional Case No 5 of 1993 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted that the vacant permanent term of office of Ventsislav Ivanov Petkov should be announced next on the list, and at the place of the elected Minister Radostin Petev Vasilev for the time during which he served as Minister should be declared Hristinka Ilycheva Ivanova under No 6 on the party list there is such a people. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 and para. 2 of the Election Code and Decision No 8 of 16 May 1993 on Constitutional Case No 5 of 1993 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Announcing as a Member of the National Assembly in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly of the Fifteenth Election Region of Plevenski, Deyan Petev Petkov, from the list of the party There is such a people. 2. Announcing as MP from the Fifteenth Election Region of Plevenski, Hristinka Ilycheva Ivanova, under No. 6 of the party list There is such a people, at the place of Radostin Petev Vasilev for the time during which Radostin Petev Vasilev served as Minister. I ask the Quaestors to invite Mrs. Ivanova to the oath room. Here you go. Mrs. Ivanova, I'll take the oath, you repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u48	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u49	Thank you. And before we move on to the agenda, I'm going to read a few messages: 1. Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of: I. Art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the dispatch and use of a plane to the Kingdom of Belgium and back by crew of the military members of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. II. Art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that a joint preparation of the formations of the joint command of the special operations of the Bulgarian Army with the special forces of the Forces for Special Operations of Great Britain will be held in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria from 14 to 18 March 2022. The preparation will be attended by soldiers from the Bulgarian country and soldiers from the Special Forces of the UK with weapons and equipment. The preparation is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming military operations, and to activities to prevent military action led by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. The provisions of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are notified to the competent state authorities. The notifications were received on 11 and 15 March 2022, respectively by ICs. No 47-203-09-22 and 23 and provided to the Defence Committee. 2. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the programming budgets on 31 December 2022 from: - The administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria; - The Communications Regulation Commission; - The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data; - State Agency "National Security" - The Nuclear Regulatory Agency; - the Court of Auditors; - The Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria; - The Central Election Commission. The reports shall be made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the relevant portfolio committees. 3. The National Statistical Institute has received information about: - indexes of turnover in the section "Retail trade', excluding trade in cars and motorcycles' in January 2022; - indexes of industrial production in January 2022; - indexes of construction production in January 2022; - inflation and consumer price indices for February 2022 and final data for January 2022 The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. And now we go to point one: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND RESTRUCTURING OF CANDIDATES FOR BNB MANAGEMENT, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION FOR BUDGET AND FINLAND, LIKE THE PROCEDURE FOR SELECTING FROM PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. A report came in from the Budget and Finance Committee. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 10 March 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 89, para. 8 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. The adoption of procedural rules is necessary in relation to the election of a new governor of the Bulgarian National Bank with a view to the expired mandate of Mr. Dimitar Radev on 15 July 2021. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 15 votes for the Committee on Budget and Finance, with no objection to the Council and 4 abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 12, para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank and art. 89, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank and presenting their documents. 1. Proposals for candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank are made by MPs or parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Budget and Finance through the President of the National Assembly within 7 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals for candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank are accompanied by written reasons that justify the good professional reputation of the applicant. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position under the model Annex 1 to the decision; (b) Declaration under art. 11, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank (Bulgarian National Bank), Annex No 2 to the Decision; (c) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model Annex 3 to the Decision; (d) a detailed CV; e) documents certifying the professionalism of the applicant in the field of economy, finance and banking (diploma for completed higher education, with a minimum degree of education and qualification, Master's degree; documents of work and/or service experience; certificates or certificates of acquired qualifications; recommendations related to occupied posts; acquired specializations in the field of economy, finance and banking; other similar documents). 3. The circumstances of art. 11, para. 4 t. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank is established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposals, together with the documents attached to them, shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 7 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Budget and Finance not later than three days before the hearing of the candidates, including questions to be addressed to the Commission on Budget and Finance. 3. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidates to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 4. The questions asked in the order of the point. 2 and 3 shall be notified to applicants in writing no later than 24 hours before the start of the hearing. 5. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Alexander I" No 1, Budget and Finance Committee, or by e-mail: 47_kbf@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. It's a hearing of the candidates. 1. Before listening to the proposed candidates, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the post. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order of the names of the applicants within two minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Each candidate presents a concept of the activities of the Bulgarian National Bank in 20 minutes. 5. The Committee on Budget and Finance shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates in alphabetical order of their own names................................................................................................................ Upon completion of the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly, the applicant shall be responsible within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Budget and Finance Committee shall set out the questions of the persons referred to in Article in summary. 89, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to which no answer has been received in the course of the debates on the matter. 5 to two minutes per question. 7. The applicant's reply to all submitted opinions and questions raised within 10 minutes. 8. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and a relevant competent authority. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission on the basis of art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision on the selection of each candidate for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing or its withdrawal from the importer shall not suspend the procedure with regard to other candidates. V. Election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank by the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes is elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 9. When a candidate refuses to participate in the election before voting on his candidacy by the National Assembly and he is the only candidate, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new procedure for the election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. 10. If there is no candidate for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. After completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected governor of the Bulgarian National Bank shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 11, para. 4 t. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 12, para. 5 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank according to a model according to Annex No 4 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other Annex 1 Annex 2 Annex 3 Annex 4 Annex 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u51	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. I am opening a discussion on the Report and the Draft Decision. Anyone who wants to make a statement? There is. Tsoncho Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u52	Mr President, it is extremely disturbing that we were present almost half an hour ago, at which the House and the majority refused to accept the examination of these rules. Again, it's about the manager of the BNB. How long and what should happen in your coalition in order to reach some understanding and eventually proceed to the election of the Governor of BNB? We're not talking about some job that's just like that, by the way, we can keep putting off and haggling. I call for a little more responsible and state-of-the-art thinking in the coalition. Sit down and figure out who you're going to choose after all, because you're not going to listen to the opposition anyway. In no way and no arguments will be enough for you, but in the end you cannot continue to postpone this thing day after day. Today, let's not accept the rules, postpone 20 days, seven days. I call on you for responsible behavior and indeed this thing to be terminated and to proceed to the selection of the Governor of BNB. It is not normal for this whole situation to have such quarrels internally, and not to affect the choice.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u53	Mr. Ganev, get on the project, not the coalition fights.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u54	Well, the project is right on the Project. As long as we don't want to, I mean the whole room, let's make the rules, that's exactly what the Project is about. Given that we come to the absurdity here to have a deliberate avoidance of the first vote, a second vote, to fall into awkward situations, this is precisely the project. Once again, I call on the coalition to sit down and agree and proceed to the selection of a governor of BNB.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u55	Thank you. Are there any lines to Tsoncho Ganev? I won't. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I apologize, Andrei Gurov. Here you go, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would agree here that this is indeed an extremely important position, which should be filled with responsibility, government and on the basis of discussions not only in the coalition, but also with all the parliamentary groups represented in Parliament. Just from this point of view at a time when the first procedure was started, it was going in its turn and a war broke out a few hundred kilometers from Bulgaria. This, of course, changed the priorities of many people who participated in these discussions and who were candidates for this position. And here we will all agree that this is a geopolitical situation which could not be foreseen when we first adopted the rules for the election of a candidate for governor of BNB. So in this regard, I do not see any drama and disagreement or any contradiction in what we are saying on all sides of this House. What I think is reasonable is that I think it is the government and is responsible for the position we are discussing right now is to give enough time both in the coalition and, again, I say, a time when we can discuss different applications, with different representatives of ruling and opposition parties. In this regard, I will make an editorial proposal. I hope for common sense. I hope for the understanding of the party, again, to all parties represented in Parliament, to give enough time for these discussions to pass in a normal, responsible way and together to come to a decision that will be put to the vote in this House and the future governor of the People's Bank will de facto have a mandate that is not based on a hasty vote in this House, in which we give proposals for different candidates and remains to see who will collect the relevant day depending on the quorum the most votes. I think the responsible approach really is to sit at the negotiating table and discuss all possible applications and let the best candidate win under the so proposed procedural rules. So my proposal is very simple, editorial, to replace, as was in the previous procedure, the seven-day period that we know we currently have crisis headquarters, we have a welcome, we have a refugee crisis that cannot in any way compare or compare to refugee crises that we have had in the past, which we have discussed in principle what great stress there is on the system. You know the refugee crisis with Syria. There were about 20 thousand people entering the country within the framework of a year. Here we have already 40 thousand Ukrainian refugees who have entered the country in the last two weeks. So there can be no comparison of the two crises. I think it is absolutely reasonable, close to good reason and dialogue, to do the procedure so as to allow them to put on the table the best applications and in an open discussion to find the really best candidate for this extremely responsible position that we are currently discussing. So my editorial proposal is to replace the deadline of seven days with 20 days, as was the last procedure. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u57	Mr. Ghurov, this is Section II. 1. Thank you. A line? Kiril Simeonov was first for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Gurov, honourable colleagues, right during the war there should be a legitimate governor of BNB. This is one of the most prestigious, stable institutions with tradition in Bulgaria. You know, the first governor was elected, I think 1879. I honestly tell you, do not know what the refugee camps have to do with the fact that the choice of the governor of BNB is delayed and what does the manager of BNB have to do with the refugee camps, unless the candidate, who is waiting, is not at the front for example or something like that. [[Laughter, noise, lines and applause from ISN and GERB-SDS.]] Conventional term, you know, was seven days, we increased it to 20 days. Now we're increasing by another seven days. You want to increase it more. I think this shows a serious attitude towards the institution and the height of the institution, which is BNB. You are talking about dialogue, about the best candidates, but frankly to tell you, especially as you hear from the opposition, there is the impression that such an unpleasant impression is slowing down because we are waiting for a specific candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u59	Thank you. Tsoncho Ganev also wants a reply and a reply from GERB-SDS to have from all the parliamentary groups that expressed their desire. Will Alexander Ivanov be from GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u60	Mr. Ghurov, I don't know if you deliberately or intentionally used the word that this term will be used for dialogue and discussion. No, it won't be used for that. This will be just a period within which the negotiators can go to support the majority and to collect applications. Let us use specific and precise words, because during this period there will be absolutely no public discussion or discussion with a coalition or discussion with opposition. On the contrary, this will be the period during which you want three weeks extra to each other in this coalition. On the contrary, let us put an end and move on, but not explain that you need discussions and any debates. There will be no debate during this period, just waiting to gather specific names.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u61	Thank you. And the third line, is it Lyuben Dilov? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Honorable colleagues! Honorable Mr. Gurov, there is a problem from the first day of this government and it is visible today. The problem is, I apologize for the template, it can be seen as a refrain from a song by a famous MP, the problem is political responsibility. It is a great desire and commendable to sit down and negotiate for a Governor of BNB, but who negotiates? Who? Who will be responsible for this choice? If you want parliament to be, it must be done according to the rules that Parliament is currently proposing. Otherwise, let me remind you who will be responsible for Volt, the Middle European Class and Social Democrats. These are the political entities that are in charge today. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] These are the mandate carriers. The future governor of the Bulgarian National Bank will be elected by them or by this parliament. My advice is to skip the political negotiations and get into this room with some nice applications, compare them in dignity and choose them. Then it is clear who is responsible for this choice. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u63	A hole? Here you go, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I thank all those who have spoken. No, there's no specific candidate waiting. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS: Well! ……]] If so, we would all be in a position to move on to the choice. Indeed, the desire is here to open a dialogue. Mr. Ganev, you say there won't be, but let's let time show if it really is. On our side, there is a request that we want to have a discussion. I think, as I said before, this is responsible behavior. And on the other hand, let me just point out that yes, the term of governor of the People's Bank expired last year. Two parliaments passed without electing a new governor. We have launched a procedure, unfortunately, as I have already mentioned, in the meantime, other events have happened that have prevented this procedure from going through the normal way that we all want this procedure to go. So the only thing I appeal to everyone here in this House about is to be reasonable and really conduct the procedure as it should be. I really cannot accept the arguments and I cannot understand how, since we have worked with the current governor, whose term has expired, you clearly legally know all very well that this is no problem at all. The Bulgarian National Bank continues to work. There are no concussions in this regard. I really don't understand, and there are no logical arguments that can convince me that a week or two weeks is critical of making that choice. What's reasonable for me is to give ourselves enough time. Yeah, it's about 10 days. Neither will they change the applications, nor will they change the education of the people who want to run, but they will simply give us time to approach wisely and responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u65	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. To speak, Alexander Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is important to stress, my fellow Members, that the draft decision is the same, with the same procedural rules, conditions and order as the previous governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, as the previous spokespersons emphasized. He's expired mid-last year, if memory serves me right. The Bulgarian National Bank has exercised its powers even with the expired mandate of its governor and the arguments that, if you see, the previous two Parliaments have not broadcast a governor and have not started the procedure, somewhat eased, colleagues, because then, you remember that there was no parliamentary majority in the previous two National Assemblys, there was no formed government to be responsible for the management of the state, and we were in the situation and hypothesis of office offices. Therefore, I think right now is the time for the formation of a parliamentary majority, government of the state, albeit wide coalition government, to broadcast candidates for governor of BNB. And I'll tell you why it's important that this happens in a short time. Bulgaria is on the path of joining the euro area and the Governor of BNB has an extremely important expert and political responsibility, I say politically as a policy of the state. Joining the euro area is the completion of Bulgaria's accession process to Europe and European integration. In this order of thought, the procedure has already expired and the 20-day deadline that we had given then for broadcasting candidates from all the political forces represented in parliament has expired. There is therefore no argument for me to postpone and give once again for a maximum period. It sounds ugly to the colleagues of the ruling coalition, and we continue the Change, with the war in Ukraine. Colleagues, the war in Ukraine does not mean that in Bulgaria they have to stop the processes. The process of election of the Governor of BNB is very important once again. I think that you can act responsibly and I will even tell you that from the opposition we are helping you from this point of view because three of the four parties... [[(Replies from]] Anyone who wants to get up, don't interrupt me. ...presented to the Committee on Budget and Finance, where the expert tone is leading, for which I am pleased to say it from the stand, supported the deadline to be seven days, so I cannot understand why colleague Ghurov has now made such an editorial proposal in this House. I would agree with him if this were the first procedure, but already, colleagues, we are in the hypothesis of a second proposal for a procedure. That is, once you had one month before there was a war in Ukraine, so I do not see this argument to justify that the war in Ukraine changes the qualities or moral heights, or the educational value of a person we should broadcast and vote on the National Assembly as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. I support the procedural rules, as proposed, as adopted by the Committee on Budget and Finance, so I propose that we proceed to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines for Alexander Ivanov? Here you go, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, a little clarification to the previous rules are not the same compared to 2015. There's a difference. I can't tell now if she's conscious or not conscious, but I'm not going to go into detail so she doesn't interpret herself as if in any way this change affects our position. I am saying that there is really a difference, and you can see it, and we can discuss here from the stand or in the Commission, as we have done.....................and dialogueally as you have said. Indeed, this is one of the committees that works in a very effective and dialogueal way. There is also a difference whether it aims to limit again the number or type of people who can run, the rules have written down what is laid down in the Law, so that these rules that we currently adopt and which were adopted in the Budget Commission are de facto more restrictive than the Law requires. Whether it is conscious, whether it is a target, I do not want to comment from here and speculate, because it would be speculation, I simply specify that there is really a difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u69	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. For the replica of Tosko Yordanov. Honest Mitev is also for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, I want to say that this is really why the committees are because there we have all sent experts, i.e. people who understand the most of the given matter. When a committee has adopted something, it is logical to assume that the expertise that we have delegated, that is, we have understood that they are experts and delegated to them the right to make decisions, is correct. That's why we sent them there. And since a committee has made a decision, we should trust her and not try to make any turns here in the room. In that order of thought, I just want to give you one more piece of information. Three days ago, Iraqi missiles attacked the U.S. Consulate in Iraq, which has the same connection as the war in Ukraine, with the election of the head of BNB.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u71	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Honest Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Ivanov, the war in Ukraine has brought us into some circumstances where we need to focus right now on some price crises that followed from this war. We called people to tell us what is the danger for Bulgaria and so on, which is fully involved in the executive power. And I do not accept your argument that it does not have any impact on whether the executive power and our group as a whole and the entire National Assembly, whether it will have the time to broadcast the right candidacy, first. Secondly, what is the urgency for us to accept that, especially today, it will be an additional item on the agenda? And your argument was because we are entering the euro area, in the sense I do not agree with that. If we wait 20 days... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u73	Quiet, fellows, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u74	Thank you, colleagues, if you don't mind. Finally, if there are good candidates at the moment, as you claim, in 20 days they will still be good candidates. So if we want a little extension to get more candidates in or to look at or have a dialogue, I think it's quite reasonable and I don't understand the emergency order. If you could give us an answer, what's the emergency order today, anything else, that's gonna come in as an emergency? And is this the most urgent thing that should happen in Bulgaria today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u75	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. For the doppelganger, Alexander Ivanov. Mr. Cholakov, for a statement? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and replicators! I'll start backwards. Mr. Mitev, I didn't understand. Perhaps in your speech you missed, I couldn't understand you about Bulgaria's accession to the euro area or not, but I hope that you are and in this regard it is an urgent order to have an official negotiator broadcast with a mandate by the National Assembly. And the war in Ukraine, unfortunately, this fact has been for three weeks, that does not mean that it should stop everything from happening in Bulgaria. For example, I hope that the executive will not be justified that it cannot submit the Recovery and Sustainability Plan for three or four months. It happened three weeks ago, now we will justify ourselves securely and with this, Bulgaria loses 2 billion. lv. because of the war in Ukraine, according to you. No, that's because executive power, as you say, is not doing its job. This is the opinion of the opposition and already of many Bulgarian citizens. Therefore there is no urgent order, as you know, GERB did not score this point as an emergency today, so I think your question here was inappropriate to me as a line. Look, colleagues, the seriousness of the broadcast of a candidate for governor of BNB is to any political power. I don't know why you're the only one who needs a deadline?! Once again, three of the four formations that enter the government supported this deadline in the Commission. This is also my answer to the reply of one of my colleagues, the replicating Mr. Yordanov. There we are experts in the Budget Committee - three of the four forces supported such a decision by opposition parties. Mr. Ghurov, I may agree with you, and the only thing that may be different with the 2015 Rules is that the Budget Committee and the National Assembly voted a higher degree of educational value for the Governor of BNB, not lower criteria. So I think here's the Budget Committee and then, and now we're in the right direction. Naturally, the responsible position for the manager of BNB is good to have an educational center, to have all the management qualities, the necessary expertise, internship in the banking sphere and naturally to have approval as a person of society. That's why I think the point that's really being discussed is important, and let's discuss it today. Again, I tell you that my speech was in the order of this, Mr. Ghurov, that you offered a very long period of time for which I would agree with you, but we have already gone through this deadline one month of the original proposal. Last week, we started the procedure again because the executive according to Mr. Mitev, who has no relation to us, we are the legislature, we are broadcasting applications, this is also to you, Mr. Mitev. In the National Assembly, the political forces represented in parliament have nothing to do with the executive power of broadcasting this application and this procedure, so we have a separation of authorities. Let the executive do its job, let it finally bring the Recovery and Sustainability Plan into Europe, start the Bulgarian economy and the Bulgarian citizens to receive the funds needed to restore the economy and support it, let them solve the war crises, but have no bearing on the procedure today. And to greet the youngest guests upstairs, these cute kids, I don't know what school they're from, but I'm glad they're in the National Assembly today. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Radomir Cholakov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I may be going into dissonance with Mr. Ivanov's speech, but in the end we are here to exchange free thoughts and to say what we think about the topics, which is why I would like to stress once again that this is about the choice of a Governor of BNB and this is not a party matter, but it is really a matter of state, as Mr. Gurov said. I may be naive, but I believe in the words and I was very pleasantly surprised by what Mr. Ghurov said, I would like to point out that when discussing the future governor of BNB, the opposition will be taken as well. Mr. Ghurov, I would really like to point out to you that words weigh and should not be lied to. A man says something, he has to do it. This applies even to politics. And I would really be very interested to see whether you will keep your promise and these talks will indeed be held with opposition representatives, as is the order for this particular appointment, and for many other appointments. I would agree, colleagues, to release the long term, that is, 20 days to have as much as you propose to discuss the applications, because in fact this is a time when we will see whether the government, speaking through the mouth of Mr. Gurov, will keep their promises and talk to the opposition. But not in a way that would make it a fig leaf of one already made a decision, Mr. Gurov, but indeed. We will see how it will happen and whether you will be able to do it this way, it seems to me that if we now give these 20 days to the government and they keep their word, we will then save much more parliamentary time for other procedures and other important decisions. I want to believe that it will not happen as it did with the election of the President of the KEWRC, where the rules were reduced once, and then the choice did not even follow the low rules. I believe that you, like us, want to raise the personal, quality bar very high in front of the people we choose. I would also like to believe, fellow Members, that you will really give signs not only through speeches like this to Mr. Gyurov, but by your actions that in a crisis situation, in a situation of multiple crises, of many crises, you have realized that you need to manage it with the knowledge and skills of the whole society, which means with the knowledge and skills of the entire parliament that we should not have complexes of the fact that there may be more experienced people in this House. I don't have complexes that there are more experienced people in this room than I do, and I'm glad I do, because I can use their experience. I believe that even opposition bills can be supported, that would be a good sign. I hope that we will operate with pride and self-confidence, because the situation in which the country is located really implies that Parliament should be united and seek consensus as much as possible. So, Mr. Gurov, thank you for your speech, that's what I wanted to say, and we'll see if the words turn into action.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u79	Thank you. The line of Tosko Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Cholakov, I think that talks can be held within 7 days, it does not take 20 days to make calls. Secondly, this procedure for the head of BNB has been going on for practically a month and a half indeed. Thirdly, if any political party did not know that a chief of BNB would be elected, it had no capacity. If she knew and had an idea who to propose, she should have already picked it out, because otherwise it means they don't have any footage. Mr. Gurov's words made me think about the correlation between events, because just to point out that correlation means that two events can coincide, but there is no correlation between them. So in that order of thought I think about it from his words, I don't know if you know it, but on March 14, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences told us that the Earth was hit by a G2 class geomagnetic storm, which is an event of cosmic scale, and I don't know what the connection is to choosing the head of BNB, but maybe we should think about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u81	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Nikolina Angelkova for the second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Dear Mr. Cholakov, allow me to disagree with you and I do not think it will take an additional 20 days to discuss the applications to be proposed as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. And I do not think that you so trusting should approach the intentions of those who are in charge of the change, that you see, this time they will accept and listen to the opposition, because they have proved to the point that only when they have a strong need, such as having votes further, when we see that during the vote on the point they did not have the necessary quorum and majority to reject it and not discuss today the rules for the boss of BNB, but actually want to buy time so that their candidate may probably be imposed in the framework of negotiations within the coalition itself. I think that one period has already expired, during which applications for governor of BNB should be submitted, and I do not think that it is necessary additional time outside these seven days to propose a worthy candidate to meet the requirements in order to take up this post, especially in the times at which we are currently facing an economic crisis. You see what happens every day and I think that the government should not justify war in Ukraine because I think they are competent to do more than one activity at the same time and it is not right to wait for some events at the expense of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u84	In fact, Mr. Yordanov and Mrs. Angelkova, I agree with you and thank you for your lines. Actually, you're right. I cannot fail to report that yesterday, literally yesterday, Prime Minister Petkov said that he would never in any way talk to the opposition, with GERB, will not accept hands, will not extend hands, in any way total war. So Mr. Gurov's statement is, in fact, currently in dissonance with what was stated yesterday by his Prime Minister. But I do say my personal opinion, colleagues, and I still want to believe, you know, don't be mad at me about it. I hope that there will be intelligence in the ruling majority and it will begin to discuss some important issues with the opposition and I will take advice from the opposition, including, as I said, on personnel issues that concern the whole country and what it looks like outside legislative issues, solutions issues, issues for example how to deal with the energy crisis and so on, let us not repeat ourselves. I'd like to believe that. If I am disappointed once again, it will be at the expense of the government. That was the point of my speech. So if the government wants to have consensus, let them give a hand, although yesterday Mr. Petkov said otherwise, and yet, however naive I am, I am also a little skeptic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u85	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Still, let's get the debate back. The debate is not for the term, but to reopen the procedure for selecting a manager. There are proposals for two terms, we will vote on them because I see that the discussion goes deeper within the time limit of whether it is 7 or 20 days. The choice of the Governor of BNB is not only the choice of a manager, the term of office of the two governors has expired. This makes more than half of BNB's governing body. Yes, there is no harm, legitimate is the current composition until the choice of a new one so enjoins the law, but it is still not about one or two months. One year increased the mandate from six to seven years. If you find this normal?! I don't find it, and I think every lawyer in this room is going to say it's not. There were some circumstances last year, objective, because of which the two parliament that worked last year was not elected, but now there is no obstacle. We had the first long-term procedure, didn't happen. I now address Mr. Gurov as the chairman of the largest parliamentary group: you are talking about dialogue and debate. I have a question: was there a dialogue and debate with the opposition within the first procedure? The answer, of course, is not. It's a rhetorical question. What guarantees that within the next 20 days such a debate will take place? It should, however, because I will tell you that in the election of Mr. Radev DPS there was participation and support, and you say that you work well with him. Here's a choice of DPS for a governess you like. Maybe the next one will do the same. You should have these conversations. Furthermore, if you want the deadline to be longer, don't you think it's fair to tell this House what happened within the first period?! We don't know. More precisely, we know, but from colossal gossip, and it would be fair to say, colleagues, let it be 20 days, because the first time we gathered the Coalition Council, we argued and the stumbling block turned out to be this and this and this. Because here is a coulomb gossip of this coalition council was said: "We better have a single application, otherwise we will depend on DPS and GERB." [[Noise and lines.]] And what's wrong with depending if it's true? Here's Radev, here's Radev. He was chosen by GERB and by DPS. So it could be a good choice, right? Since we have not heard these things, we see no reason for the second procedure to delay, we see no reason to delay at all. Searching for candidacy. Colleagues, even in this room there are decent people if you turn around. Mr. Ganev from DB.. a wonderful economist, Mr. Chobanov from DPS. There are certainly some in your ranks, in the ranks of the BSP too. Did anyone ask everyone to sit down and say, "Oh, let's see, maybe we can air it from here." And outside this room, there are even more worthy candidates. We always look in Singapore, they refuse us, we look for them at the World Bank, at the International Monetary Fund, and then you smile and you say, "The DPS is getting funny with their fixations." Well, we're not. We'd love to, but we don't. Backstage again is looking for a candidate for the post of governor and for the underdogs, and I don't need to mention it again. It's the only purpose of both slowing down and misunderstanding and everything else. What? In the first procedure you were offered Mr. Karimansky. Is Mr. Karimanski a choice of DPS or GERB? It would be on GERB if it was Mr. Ananiev who was an extremely worthy person for this post, that and with experience which we do not have all put together. But Mr. Karimansky doesn't seem to fit into the backroom. Therefore, when we appeal sincerely to the dialogue room, as you did, Mr. Gurov, I believe you. Without any courtesy, I believe you. Be honest to go all the way. Tell me what, why, how and why you want an extension, because everything else is... Now, Ukraine, I will give you the same arguments as counterarguments. The price crisis is related to BNB. Investing reserves is relevant. Yes, yes, the macroeconomic analyses are done in BNB as well, and better than anywhere else, so let's move on and if we have really serious, honest intentions, let's say them and work this way. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u87	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Replices to Yordan Tsonev? There are Tsoncho Ganev and Andrej Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u88	Mr. Tsonev, in your speech on several occasions you mentioned the current governor of BNB and what a great specialist he is, how much and how he united the hall at his choice. We cannot in any way agree that Mr. Radev has very conscientiously carried out his duties during his term for a very simple and prosaic reason. During his term of office one of the main things that happened, related to the financial sphere, is that the government of GERB and VMRO we entered a waiting room or as you would call it, ERM II something that this Parliament is currently welcoming and explaining how entering the euro area is an extremely good option for Bulgaria. But BNB's obligation was categorically, clearly and precisely to prepare a complete, detailed analysis with all pros and cons of this membership a document which there is no. It is not normal for us to submit and explain how good it is for the Bulgarian economy to enter the euro area and at the same time BNB with all the capacity it has, with all the specialists working inside, not to have done the analysis in question. And that document is gone. I formally requested it, and I officially received a reply that there was no such analysis. And here is the question to ask, since the BNB has not done their job to do an accurate analysis and to say to our country the pros are such, the cons are such and we recommend that this happen, and in parliament to take this decision, in the end, Mr. Radev, what has he done during his entire mandate for this extremely important moment, about what is coming before Bulgaria? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That is why this debate should not be postponed and we should enter into a procedure for the election of the President of BNB. We can't afford to move forward with this manager.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Gurov for line two.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Tsonev and colleagues who have already spoken on the subject, I accept your arguments and I think they are reasonable. We have a dialogue here, which is based on positions and not on the basis we want to impose someone. I think it is clear to everyone that, from the very first day of entering this Parliament, the aim of the Change is to continue has never been to work for people in certain positions. Our goal has always been really dialogueal to find the best candidates for the important positions. I'm not excluding anyone. Especially in this room, there are many worthy candidates. They would all be subject to discussion, and accordingly, if we found such agreement, I see no obstacle to these candidates being supported, really in the context of a discussion which I have asked that we want to hold. I stand by my words, and I think there are even opposition people in this House, or they are not in this House right now, who can confirm that such steps have been taken and the intention is serious. My idea was to give this a chance to really happen, but I understand the arguments we really have a procedure and it's running. As an expression of the fact that we are willing to take the appropriate steps, it is appropriate to really go in a direction where there is not one candidate, but to have many worthy candidates, among which we can find the most worthy. I, listening to all those who have spoken, if I can change my proposal, is to make a compromise option not to have 20 days, which may indeed be too much time, but 14 days to have to do emergency procedures here next week. So I'm changing my proposal to 14 days. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u91	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Third line. [[Heckling]] Ivo Atanasov was before you. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My proposal is to extend the period of six months, and I will motivate myself for that. [[Noise and lines.]] I know some writers who were part of the referendum, which is why I became a member of the party. I propose that the procedure be changed as follows: to have a month to draw up a scenario by them I make a personal commitment to speak; a month to select the staff; and four months in a live broadcast these candidates to be imprisoned in a house, to vote by text messages; of them to be offered three to be elected by the National Assembly. I believe that this is an application of the principles of direct democracy and this is the most democratic way of choosing a governor of BNB. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u93	Mr. Tsonev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To Mr. Ganev. Mr. Ganev, the DPS is at the heart of the consensus on entry into the euro area. So we have no change and we believe that Bulgaria should continue the policy of joining the euro area, but now is not a debate about it. If there is a debate, we will repeat our arguments and new arguments from the situation created as a result of the many crises. As for the procedure, we tend to accept a 14-day deadline, at least because of the quarantine in which one of the candidates is, because we don't all want to talk remotely to him. Seven and or fourteen is of little importance. Fourteen, in my opinion, in view of this situation and in view of the stated desire of the President of the largest parliamentary group for dialogue and seeking a common solution, would be a good solution. I think this is the way we should go when it comes to state institutions that are overparty. Not only are they outpartisan, they always transfer the term of office to one government. So here the party approach is not the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u95	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Thomas Bikov for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! What I see from the debate as well, and from this failed procedure, which ended a few days ago, a bit like the phrase of a voter who once said: "I wanted to vote, but I didn't want to vote. Now you want to have a president of the Bulgarian National Bank. This is understood and it is obvious that you have an appetite, you want the position, but you do not have a person. Or you have a guy, but you're afraid that if you offer him up, he's gonna start a scandal because he might be missing something. This is a very serious institution, especially in times of economic crisis, price crisis and any type of challenges facing the Bulgarian economy. By the way, because you are still unable to broadcast a candidate, you did not lift this anchor from the Bulgarian ship, which still keeps it from going somewhere in an unknown direction. You've removed all kinds of anchors in recent months, and the results are visible on the shelves of the shops. Now you're wondering how to remove this anchor without knowing where the ship will go, because that's what we know from what you're saying here. Hardly 14 for 20 or seven days such a problem, which I think is existential and very asymptomatic for your management, will be able to be solved. You are talking about the fact that there should be a dialogue for sure about this institution. By the way, the last President should be congratulated for his term of office because he took over BNB in a very serious, almost banking crisis, with the bankruptcy of a bank and managed to calm things down and move forward. So there has to be a dialogue. The question is where this dialogue will take place. Where will it be held because he has not been led to parliament so far?! Obviously somewhere is being led I don't know where, but obviously until now the decisions have been made outside this Chamber, outside the National Assembly. Is he in the Council of Ministers? I am sure already knowing the approach of Mr. Asen Vassilev, for example, that he was involved in this dialogue and will most likely continue to participate. Unfortunately, everyone else here may not have participated in at least we, and seeing from your votes and part of you from the majority in question have not been much involved. [[Relations from the parliamentary group of.. We continue the Change.]] It gives the impression that decisions are not made in parliament, but here, as you like to say, we are a rubber seal that after 14 days, 20 days or seven days will stamp what has been made as a decision somewhere else. It's not bad to know where that is. By the way, I'm sure you're going to challenge me and say, you've made decisions elsewhere. But we knew where. We had a prime minister who was making the decisions, and with you, I'm a little doubting whether he's taking them or somewhere else they're being taken. So we welcome your desire to have a dialogue, but we doubt that even you can ensure that this dialogue can take place here. Personally, I am extremely worried about what is happening with the BNB election. I would remind you that even in your coalition agreement, it was laid down that for those mandates that expired, which had been completed a long time ago, procedures should be started immediately. You have launched a procedure and it turns out that you cannot elect a chairman, and it is a very important institution at such a time. Think about who to raise. But let me tell you: if you don't have anyone, go pray to Mr. Radev that he will eventually accept another term, because at least we know him. Please don't experiment with BNB at least. You've experimented enough. I think a lot of your experiments have not been successful and we have no guarantees that if you conduct another experiment at BNB, it will be successful. And if it fails there, there's nothing good waiting for us. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u97	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. The line from Tosko Yordanov and then from Nikolina Angelkova and Vladimir Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bikov, I would like to strongly oppose you for not commenting on what Mr. Tsonev said before you for the 14-day term, because Mr. Karimanski's candidacy I do not know to be officially raised. So tying the rules to a man who hasn't been officially announced is, to say the least, a little ridiculous. You should have paid attention to this, as well as to tell Mr. Tsonev that in the seven-day period Mr. Karimansky will be on the line. So this is also an argument not to extend the deadline by binding it to him. I just don't get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u99	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u100	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Bikov, please also pay attention when you ask where the dialogue is taking place and who conducts the dialogue for the Governor of BNB is actually in the context, and I regret that Mr. Karimanski is not in the Chamber, but in an interview last week he states: I was advised to give up the race for the Governor of BNB, but I will be a candidate who advised him to give up this race and why? Is it true that the ruling coalition has another designated candidate who may not be eligible? Perhaps from the surprise of including this decision today on the agenda as item one, for which you were not involved in the revoting, you are therefore surprised that the requirement for a Master remains in the decision read by the importer, which we will vote on today? Any questions that the government should answer because this relates to one of the most important positions in the country to ensure our financial stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. The third line is by Vladimir Tabutov. [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] You signed up, Mr. Hamid. Shall I sign you up for a statement? [[Reply.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are all facing a crisis, namely each party to broadcast such a potential candidate. The first phase of the procedure has failed not only from the point of view of "We continue the Change" but from the point of view of each party, because every MP has the opportunity to propose such a candidate. My request is that we really do not suggest to the public that we are conducting this process, because we have heard before this, and when choosing the chairman of the KEWRC, that we are almost implementing the conditions in this way, because we have chosen a person in advance. You've proven that that's not true. In this regard, Mr. Gurov's proposal is precisely for a constructive dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u103	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. For the doppelganger, Toma Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Back and forth. Mr. Tabutov, we have no doubt that anyone is conducting this process. On the contrary, we are rather concerned that we are neither seeing a conductor nor an orchestra in this situation. We hear some noises and we can't understand them. That's our concern. And it's a good thing you thought of the KEWRC. Our concerns are precisely because of this choice, because we have seen you choose people who do not meet at all the conditions that you have bet yourself. We hope that this does not happen with the BNB, because if this happens with BNB, we will get into a very bad situation. Otherwise, about the dialogue, I agree. You said the negotiating table, we're waiting for you to show us where this table is and who the negotiators are. We are ready at any moment to broadcast you and negotiators. As for the candidates, that we have failed, now obviously the opposition, and your approach so far has shown that you will hardly choose any of the opposition, although me, if you ask, Mr. Kiril Ananiev is absolutely indisputable about this position and we can immediately offer it to you, but you will hardly support him because he is from GERB. To Mrs. Angelkova. I have nothing to say to you, because I also read in the papers who said what, and maybe there is some other debate, with some hints of who had made Karimanski give up, is he a candidate at all, because he is not a candidate at the moment, but it is said that he is a candidate, and apparently there is some other mythical figure against him that we cannot understand who he is. Mr. Yordanov seems to be using the line to address Mr. Tsonev. I don't have any comments on Mr. Tsonev's statement. I hope this procedure does not fail, and this procedure is to be carried out normally and in favor of both BNB and the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u105	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Next statement? Desislava Atanasova for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am a little surprised by the debate, and in the part of the justifications of the importers of this procedure, that is, we are continuing the Change.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u107	The Commission is an importer, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u108	All right, the committee in which the majority has the ruling majority. Thank you for the correct correction. We have heard that the war in Ukraine, which has been for two weeks, has delayed the process of broadcasting a candidate for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. We have heard that the executive involved in all the war processes in Ukraine was not ready with a candidacy and a possible discussion at some table. I expected that one of you could say that the youth GERB or any of the other GERB organizations sabotaged this process and this would not surprise me at all. Dear colleagues! Absolutely helpless seems the argument that the executive power is too busy and therefore the applications for a possible governor of BNB are not discussed. Let me remind you that according to art. 84, p. 8 of our Constitution The National Assembly elects a Governor of BNB. In this sense, the executive has nothing to do with your will, with our will, with our will to raise candidates, to discuss candidates and to vote here in plenary. In this sense, indeed, this justification seems totally helpless. Second of all, you don't have time. Twenty days was the first procedure, seven days was the second procedure. Now you continue to insist that it be increased again and that the deadline for raising governors will be extended. I believe that if the ruling and the largest ruling parliamentary group in the ruling majority does not have a nomination for one of the most important institutions in the country and is seeking excuses, which I spoke about a few minutes ago, this is extremely worrying. If the ruling majority does not have a common nomination, it is also extremely worrying, although some time ago.. more than two or three weeks ago, we heard from you and Prime Minister Kiril Petkov that each of the parties or organizations in the ruling coalition will raise a stand-alone candidacy for a Governor of BNB and the best will be broadcast as a common candidate. And here's the question. First, either none of the parties and organizations in the ruling coalition has such a candidate, or this candidate cannot be called the best because at the moment the Governor of BNB is a person who has enough experience, enough expertise and the bar is so high that it is difficult to raise someone with the same experience, with the same international recognition and with the same professional or educational level. When talking about the nominations, I am also quite worried that in the last week one of the members of the National Assembly medialy announced that someone advised him not to appear in a possible future competition procedure in the National Assembly. Here the question must be raised to the government: who advised a potential candidate to give up the race? What are these primos in a democratic state to advise someone not to participate in a public competition, and is that why it has been two hours of parliamentary games, first of all, to fail at all to discuss these procedural rules; now to fail at all the procedure itself at this time when the Budget Committee has proposed to us to vote, and thirdly, possibly to fail to choose a possible candidate? To these questions, colleagues, I did not hear any answer. If you want me to repeat them: who needs these 20 days extended, because I have no doubt that talks with the opposition will not be held as before, except that the opposition has been called with any offensive epithets, you have never had talks, whether or not, concerning important state interests, and I believe that the choice of a governor of BNB is such an important state interest. Moreover, at the beginning of each session of the National Assembly, the President shall report all positions for which a competition or a public procedure is pending and in which procedures the National Assembly has its participation in the promotion and voting of certain candidates. It's been more than months, a year, not being ready with potential candidates, it's really embarrassing. But what's more disturbing is that even if it were to be extended to 14 or 20 days, you still wouldn't be ready. If today we do not answer the important questions that we have raised, then perhaps there is no point in having any debate further or participating in any future talks. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Hamid Hamid for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Finally, I've had my cue. Dear Mrs. Atanasova, perhaps the question you are asking here is rhetorical. All of Bulgaria knows who this man is. This is the same person, Mrs. Atanasova, who has proposed ministers of Mr. Borisov and Mr. Borisov to these ministers throughout your government. Those are not my words, these are not my statements, this is a statement by Mr. Borisov himself. This is the same person, Mrs. Atanasova, the same person who currently arranged this government, this is the prime minister's mentor, this is oligarch Ivo Prokopiev. Why do you wonder who this man is? [[Applause from DPS.]] I'm interested in something else, but you keep quiet about this guy, shall we hear from you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u111	Is there a second line to Dessislava Atanasova? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u112	Thank you. Mr. Hamid, as a matter of fact, I expected that the government would indicate who dictated the rules. Because yes, you are right, ever back in time, about which you from the parliamentary tribune said that you quote the former Prime Minister Borisov, there have been talks, not those talks about who?.............................. that no one has hidden it. [[(DPS ……]] [[Mention by DPS: "Memorize his name"]] Now, however, I do not know if there is really a serious change in Mr. Prokopiev's role in Bulgarian political life. [[Replys from DPS. Partial applause.]] Yeah, I'm not worried about anything. There's no need for applause. Because if ever back in time such conversations were held, now I see that not only are the conversations being held, not only are the faces being mentioned, but even the conversations being moderated. We saw him yesterday. So, Mr. Gurov came out probably out of inconvenience. [[Voices by "Keep On Changing": "Eee!"]] Okay, there are enough prominent leaders from your parliamentary group here, such as Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, who can answer: who ordered you to extend the procedure, who refused a possible candidate to participate in this procedure? Who?! Is that Ivo Prokopiev? [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u113	Mr. Ananiev, straight to the point, if you like. What did they hurt you with? That someone's ordering you. Okay, explain the order.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Atanasova, we know who's ordering you and where he's ordering you from.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u115	But Mr. Ananiev, don't go in the same tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u116	Let me explain, okay? Mr. Borisov from Bankya tells you when on the phone, when by text, when with couriers that is clear to everyone. We continue to change and we have democratic processes in which we solve all cases. We know that GERB is not the case. So don't judge by yourself how things happen with us. We are trying to be responsible, and this has been shown by what colleagues have said. You put in political talk. We can also bring it in because you can be talked about a lot, unfortunately, not very nice, but you can talk a lot. So nobody tells us anything, especially me. We have a way of making our own decisions and processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u117	Thank you. And for a personal explanation, Dessislava Atanasova. [[(Reply of the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev, from the place:]] It was identical.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u118	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, please do not allow such speeches. Firstly, they in no way bring anything substantial to the debate. In terms of who in which group decides how. Yes, Mr. Ananiev, our party president is Boyko Borisov. Two days ago GERB as a party reaffirmed its trust in the leader of GERB Boyko Borisov. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] That you're some kind of Srbirstein, Volt, Molt, and any other residue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u119	No offense, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u120	That's not an insult.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u121	Well, Sberstein is not known for positive connotation, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u122	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I take note. The lack of leadership is obvious, not obvious, Mr. Ananiev. There is no one to make the decisions in your parliamentary group. There is no one to take the decisions in your ruling majority. That is why, Mr. Ananiev, we are getting to this point, we are extending deadlines, there are no answers to important questions, and you are doing some strange procedures in the way of conducting the procedure to ask who decides in GERB. Of course, it decides, first of all, the leader of our party, the Executive Commission and the parliamentary group something that you lack as a structure. First do this and then I think you will have the qualities to state a political position and defend it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u123	Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm calling off the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u124	On behalf of the parliamentary group there is such a people and I want 15 minutes of rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u125	Okay. Take 15 minutes off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u126	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. Let's move on to the vote. An editorial proposal was made by Andrey Gurov to extend the deadline for submitting applications from 7 days to 14 days. The systematic place of this proposal is in Section I. 1. This is Andrei Gurov's proposal, which we will first put to the vote. We vote on Andrei Gurov's proposal. Voting mode. Colleagues online: Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u127	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u128	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u129	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u130	They voted 207 MPs in Hall plus 2 online, total " 209": for 94, against 87 in the Chamber plus 2 online, total 89, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We're overreacting. Colleagues online: Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u131	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u132	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u133	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u134	They voted 209 MPs in the House plus 2 online, total " 211": for 97, against 86 in the House plus 2 online, total 88, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We're going to vote on the import text. We are voting on the draft decision as proposed by the Commission. Colleagues online: Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u136	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u138	They voted 215 MPs in Hall plus 2 online, total " 217": for 130 in the Chamber plus 2 online " 132" against 25 abstentions 60. The motion is accepted. We're re-engageing. Colleagues online: Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u140	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u142	They voted 216 MPs in the House plus 2 online, total.. 218: for 118 in the House plus 2 online.. total 120, against 25, abstention 73. The motion is accepted. We've also run out of item one on the agenda of the day. Moving on to point two: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF A TRISTAL CONFERENCE OF AND BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND BOSNA AND HERZEGOVINA AND PFIZER INC. AND BIONTECH MANUFACTURE GMBH ON THE MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION OF THE DONATION OF VOXIN AGAINST COVID-19, Developed by PFIZER INC. AND BIONTECH MANUFACTURING GMBH AND A COUPLE AGREEMENT FOR A DONATION BETWEEN BULGARIA AND BOSNA AND HERZEGOVINA. The discussion on the Bill was held on Thursday last week. We still have to vote on the bill. Let's move on to the vote. Voting mode. Colleagues online: Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u144	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u146	They voted 142 MPs in the House plus 2 online, total " 144": for 131 in the House plus 2 online " 133," against none, abstentioned 11. The motion is accepted. Mr. Tonev, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the bill adopted in the first vote should be reviewed and proposed at a second vote in one sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u148	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Is there a reverse opinion? I can't see. Voting mode. We vote on the procedural proposal. Colleagues online: Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u150	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u152	They voted 141 MPs in the House plus 2 online, total " 143": for 141 in the House plus 2 online " 143," against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Tonev, to read the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u153	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of a Tripartite Donation Agreement between and between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of a CoVID-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH and a Bilateral Donation Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina Art. 1. Ratifying the Tripartite Agreement on donation from and between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of the vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH, signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 1 December 2021, by Bosnia and Herzegovina on 23 November 2021 and by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on 8 December 2021 and the Bilateral Agreement on donation between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina, signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 1 December 2021 and by Bosnia and Herzegovina on 23 November 2021. Art. 2. Arranges the agreements under art. 1 shall not be published in the Official Journal. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u155	On the basis of art. 80, para. 2, Izr. second of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I make the following proposal for legal and technical amendment: in art. 2 after the word 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. This proposal is necessary because in art. 2 by importer is omitted to indicate the legal basis of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u156	And thank you, Professor Tonev. I open the discussion on the Bill and texts read by Mr. Tonev. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion and we're going to vote. First of all, I put to the vote Anton Tonev's editorial proposal, namely in art. 2 after the word 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please vote on the editorial proposal. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u158	Mr. Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u160	Thank you. Vote 138 MPs in the House and 2 online " 140," for 127 in the House and 2 online " 129" total, no objection, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote anbloc on the title of the Bill, art. Art. 1, art. 2 in compliance with the already voted editorial proposal and the Final provision of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u163	Mr. Sabrutev, we'll take your vote into account for the record. They voted 138 MPs in the Chamber through the computerised system and 2 online " 140," and Venko Sabrutev, who failed to vote The motion is accepted. We are also running out of the second item on the agenda of the day. Moving on to the next point: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR COVERED BENEFITS. Mr. Sabrutev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to do a security clearance procedure in this room. Please, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to vote in the Chamber to allow the following persons to be admitted: Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Rositsa Petkova, Head of Department of the Directorate of the Financial Markets and Mrs. Nina Stoyanova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u165	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. We are voting for Mr. Yaydzhiev, Mrs. Petkova and Mrs. Stoyanova. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u167	Mr. Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u169	They voted 133 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online.. 135, 133 in the Chamber and 2 online.. 135 total, no objection and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mr. Shalafov will introduce us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report on the covered bond bill, No 47-102-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2021, adopted on the first vote on 3 February 2022, the second vote. The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in this column. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1, as in para. 2 the word "acts" to be replaced by "normal acts." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2. "Chapter 2" - Pool of the capital. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. "Department I..................................................................................... The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3, as in para. 1, t. 1 the words "and investment firms" shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7, and the words.... more often........................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9. Inclusion of derivative contracts in the cover pool. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10. Section III - Internal group structures for the issue of covered bonds. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11, as in para. 1, t. 5 the words.......................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14, and the words "the order of" shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15. Section V "Providement of collateral on the assets of the asset of the asset'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16, as in para. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): In the case of the aid, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19, as in para. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20. "Department VI... Register of the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22, to be reflected in its systematic place as art. 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23, to be reflected in its systematic place as art. 22 and in it in para. 1 the words "the register is carried out" shall be replaced by "the register." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24, as in para. 1, t. 3 the words "the order of" shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25. "Chapter 3" "Covering and liquidity requirements." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of Chapter Three: The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26: Art. 26. (1) The covered bonds must at any time meet the coverage and over-security requirements under this Chapter. (2) All current and future liabilities of covered bonds must be covered by cash claims on eligible assets of the cover. These include obligations for: 1. payment of principal on covered bonds; 2. payment of interest and other monetary liabilities on covered bonds; 3. repayment under derivative contracts included in the cover pool in accordance with art. 10; 4. cover the costs of servicing and managing covered bonds and cover assets in the case of placing covered bonds under separate management in accordance with Chapter Eight. (3) When calculating the coverage requirement, issuers may present the costs under para. 2, p. 4 as a total amount specified under the conditions containing the rights and obligations of covered bonds. The conditions of covered bonds should contain detailed information on the methods and assumptions used when determining the amount under the preceding sentence. Where those costs exceed the amount specified in the covered bonds conditions, the issuer shall comply with the coverage requirement on the basis of the higher cost amount. (4) The requirement for coverage under para. 2 is executed with the following cover assets: 1. primary assets; 2. ancillary assets; 3. assets included in the liquidity buffer in accordance with art. 28; 4. cash claims on derivative contracts included in the cover pool in accordance with art. 10. (5) The assets of the coverage under para. 4 may not include assets which are deemed to have occurred default within the meaning of art. 178 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. (6) The Bulgarian National Bank shall issue a decree laying down requirements for the methodology for calculating the amount of the obligations under para. 2 and the assets of the cover under para. 4 as well as the arrangements for assessing the obligations under para. 2, p. 3 and the assets of the cover under para. 4 t. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27, as in para. 5 words. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 concerning the placing The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28, as in para. 1 after the words the booking of the write-off shall be added by art. 21, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European "Chapter 4" "Observer." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30, as in para. 1, t. 9 the word "acts' is replaced by "normal acts'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31, as in para. 1, t. 1 the words "laws and acts in question' shall be replaced by "normal acts', and in para. 2 after the words "public supervision" the covered bonds shall be added. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32, as in para. 2, p. 4 the word "acts" is replaced by "normal acts" in para. 5 the word "guillotine" is also deleted in para. 7 after the words of the requirements of para. 5 and 6.. is added under the conditions laid down in the regulation under para. Five o'clock. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u171	Okay, thank you, Mr. Shalafov, to Chapter Five and we'll move on. I open a discussion on the title of the Bill, the names of the sections, the texts read by Plamen Shalafov. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm putting an end to this discussion and we'll move on to a vote. I vote: the title of the bill, which is by importer; the name of Chapter One is by importer; art. 1 shall be in the version of the Commission; art. 2 is by importer; the name of Chapter 2 is by importer; the name of Section I in Chapter 2 is by importer; art. 3 shall be in the version of the Commission; art. 4 is by importer; art. 5 is by importer; art. 6 is by importer; art. 7 shall be in the version of the Commission; art. 8 and 9 are by importer; the name of Section II is by importer; art. 10 is by importer; the name of Section III is by importer; art. 11 shall be in the version of the Commission; art. 12 is by importer; the name of Section IV is also by importer; the text of art. Art. 13 also; art. 14 shall be in the version of the Commission; art. 15 is by importer; the name of Section V is by importer; art. 16 shall be in the version of the Commission; art. 17 and 18 are by importer; art. 19 shall be in the version of the Commission; art. 20 is by importer; the name of Section VI is by importer; art. 21 is by importer; art. 22 is in the version of the importer, but its systematic place is like 23 according to the Commission; art. 23 shall be in the version of the Commission and shall become art. Article 22; 24 shall be in the version of the Commission; art. 25 is by importer; the name of Chapter 3 is in the version of the Commission; art. 26 shall be in the version of the Commission; Art. 26 shall be in the version of the Commission; 27 shall be in the version of the Commission; art. 28 is in the version of the Commission; the name of Chapter 4 is by importer; art. 29 is by importer; art. 30 shall be in the version of the Commission; Art. 30 shall be in the version of the Commission; It shall be in the version of the Commission; Art. 31 shall be in the version of the Commission; 32 shall be in the version of the Commission; and Art. 32 shall be in the version of the Commission; 33 is an importer. We vote them all in full. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u172	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u173	And Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u175	They voted 124 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 126" total: 117 in the Chamber and 2 online " 119" total, no objection, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u176	"Chapter 5" "Structurals" with a delay in the maturity of the covered bond issue. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34 as in para. 6 in the text before t. 1 the words "the following' are deleted and the words "the following' are deleted. 1 the words "active events' for "supplied' shall be replaced by the circumstances leading to "supplied events'. "Chapters 6............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36: Art. 36. For issuing permission under art. 35 the issuer bank shall submit to the BNB an application for authorisation of covered bonds to which the following documents and information shall apply: 1. a detailed business programme on the business of issuing covered bonds for at least a three-year period after the issue of covered bonds, and if the planned maturity of the bonds is shorter, for the entire period until the maturity of the covered bonds; 2. information on the existence of a bank's software and material collateralisation issuer required to issue and manage covered bonds in accordance with the requirements of this law and its implementing regulations; 3. the internal rules, policies and procedures of the issuer bank in accordance with the requirements of this law and its implementing regulations; 4. detailed information on the assets to be included in the cover pool and their compliance with the eligibility requirements of this law and its implementing regulations; 5. the relevant credit rules and policies of the issuer bank in relation to the approval, modification, renewal and refinancing of the assets to be included in the cover pool; 6. information on the allocation of responsibilities within the issuer bank regarding the issuance and management of covered bonds; 7. information on the observer of the coverage, where he will be appointed, including data and information proving that he meets the requirements of this law, and a draft contract with the selected observer of the cover; 8. in the case of externally issued covered bonds under art. 11, para. 1, information on the verification carried out whether the internally issued covered bonds under art. 11, para. 1, including those resulting from cross-border cross-border cross-border covered bond issuance entities under art. 12, in accordance with the requirements of this law and its implementing regulations; 9. in the case of joint financing under Chapter Two, Section IV, a draft contract under which eligible assets arising from the activities of the originator bank will be transferred to the issuer bank, as well as documents and information about the originator bank, which are necessary to make the decision under art. 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 38, as in para. 1 in the text before t. 1 words in the case of "supplier' is replaced by "supplier' when "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 39: Art. 39. The Bulgarian National Bank refuses to issue an authorisation for the covered bond programme, respectively for the issue of covered bond issue, with a reasoned decision where: 1. not all necessary documents and information are provided or the documents contain clear irregularities; 2. the issuer does not systematically comply with the requirements of this law in relation to other covered bonds or covered bond issues programmes issued by it; 3. the covered bond programme, respectively the issuance of covered bond issue, will result in a significant risk to the operation of the issuer bank or its financial situation; 4. the issuance of covered bonds will lead to a breach of the requirements of this law or of the regulatory acts implementing it; 5. there is a risk that the issue of covered bonds will endanger the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Bulgaria; 6. the issuer does not have the necessary resources and capacity, including software and material collateralisation, or qualified personnel, to ensure the smooth issuance and administration of a covered bond programme or covered bond issue; 7. the selected observer of the coating does not meet the requirements of this law; 8. the envisaged structure of the cover pool does not meet the requirements of this law; 9. the rules and procedures in place in the issuer bank in relation to the issuance and administration of covered bonds do not provide the necessary protection of investors' rights. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 40, as in para. 1 the word "acts" is replaced by "normal acts" and in para. 2 the words "at least from "same' shall be replaced by "successful' than "successful'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 42. "Heads.. Organizational requirements and information provision............................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 43, such as the word "acts', is replaced by "normal acts'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46 as in para. 2, p. 5 the words "activating events for" shall be replaced by the circumstances leading to "the events" in para. 3 the words "section III of chapter 2' shall be replaced by "second-ranking', section III and the words "a link to chapter III' shall be replaced by "a link to chapter III' by a reference to the relevant website on which the information can be found'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47, as in para. 2, p. 3 the words of the requirements shall be replaced by the terms of the requirements and shall be replaced by the words of the requirements. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48. "Chapter 8 "Departure, management of cover assets in the event of termination procedure and rescue measures'. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49, as in para. 3 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The following The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50, as in para. 3 the words "supplied' are replaced by "supplied' and the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51, as in para. 2, p. 2 words.............................................................................. 51, para. 1 of the Law on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries is replaced by Art. 51, para. 1 of the same law. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 52: Art. 52. (1) An extraordinary manager may only be a natural person who meets the requirements for a trade union under art. 25, para. 1 of the Bankruptcy Act. The implementation of the requirements shall be established by the BNB in accordance with Art. 1. 25, para. 2 and 4 of the same law. (2) The extraordinary manager may be the extraordinary manager of more than one issue covered bonds issued by the same issuer bank. The extraordinary manager may not be a temporary manager, a temporary trade union, a trade union, a Quaestor, a liquidator or perform other functions within the framework of a termination procedure or rescue measures with regard to the issuer bank. (3) The Bulgarian National Bank may appoint up to two persons as extraordinary managers. When two emergency managers are appointed, they shall take decisions unanimously and exercise their powers jointly, unless the BNB decides otherwise. (4) The Bulgarian National Bank may terminate the powers of a person appointed as extraordinary manager of the covered bonds and appoint another in its place in the presence of one or more of the following grounds: 1. written request of the extraordinary governor addressed to the BNB; 2. when the extraordinary governor has found that he has not responded or has subsequently ceased to comply with the requirements of para. 1 or para. 2 sentence 2; 3. in the event of actual failure of the extraordinary manager to exercise its powers; 4. in the event of death or imposition of an emergency manager; 5. at the discretion of the BNB, when the extraordinary manager does not fulfil his obligations or by his actions endangers the interests of investors in covered bonds and/or the opposite parties to derivative contracts concluded in accordance with art. 10. (5) The Act of BNB under para. 4 shall not be subject to appeal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 53, as in para. 5 the words "the order of" shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 54, as in para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 55. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 56, as in para. 2 the words "the order of" shall also be deleted in para. 6 the words "not" shall be replaced by "not" and "not" shall be replaced by "not." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 57 as in para. 3 the words "Chapter 4 of Part One' shall be replaced by "Chapter 1'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 58, as in para. 1, t. 2 the words "for cover" shall also be deleted in para. 3 the words "the order of" shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59, as in para. 2 the words "the order of" shall also be deleted in para. 6 all over the words. 26, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 26, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') "Chapter 9 "Surveillance and supervisory cooperation." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Ninth. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60, as in para. 1 the word "acts' is replaced by "normal acts'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 61, as in c. 9 the word "sanctions" is replaced by "punishments." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62 as in para. 1 after the word "supervisory" is added to the covered bonds and in para. 2 and 3 the word "needs" shall be replaced by the "values" shall be replaced by the words "needs" shall be replaced by the words "needs" shall be replaced by the words "needs" shall be replaced by the words "needs" shall be replaced by the words "needs" shall be replaced by the words "needs" shall be replaced by the words "needs" shall be replaced by the The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 63: Art. 63. (1) The information received or generated by the BNB for the purposes of public supervision of covered bonds or in relation to it shall be professional secrecy. This information shall not constitute official secrecy within the meaning of the Classified Information Protection Act. (2) It is not a professional secret that information which is subject to publication or disclosure under a regulatory act. (3) The members of the Board of Directors of BNB, the employees, experts and other persons working for BNB shall be obliged to keep professional secrecy, including after their relationship with BNB has ceased. (4) The persons under para. 3 may use information representing professional secrecy only for the purposes and in the performance of their duties. This information shall not be disclosed or made available to any person or body other than those referred to in art. 64, para. 1. (5) The limitations of para. 4 shall not apply if the information is provided in aggregate form so that the persons to which it relates cannot be identified. (6) The information received by a person obliged to provide it under this law may be given back upon request by him. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 64, as in para. 1 in the text before t. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M3, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3 and N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3 2 point (b) is finally added to the covered bonds and in points (a) to (c) to (d) to (e) to (g) to (g) to (g) to (g) to (g) to (g) to (g) to (e) to (g) to (g) to (g) to (g) to (g) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 65, as in para. 1 the words "observance of the' shall be replaced by "public supervision' in para. 3 the words "exercise" and "in other Member States" shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66, as in para. 2 after the words. The entry for the United Kingdom is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Decision. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 67. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 68, and after the words "public supervision" the covered bonds shall be added. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 69: Art. 69. (1) The Bulgarian National Bank shall, as a body for public supervision of covered bonds, disclose on its website the following information: 1. the provisions of the relevant regulations, as well as the texts of the general supervisory guidelines adopted by the BNB concerning the issue of covered bonds; 2. information on the policy and practice followed by the BNB on the implementation of this law and the regulations on its implementation, as well as the reasons for their change; the information on the policy followed shall include at least information on the means which the BNB chooses and uses in the exercise of its operational autonomy to achieve the objectives of this law; 3. a list of banks authorised by the BNB to issue covered bonds, and 4. List of programs and emissions covered bonds under art. 42 that have the right to use the own funds requirement for the covered debt instrument (premium) or the own funds requirement for the own funds requirement. (2) The published information under para. 1 shall be updated when a change occurs. (3) The Bulgarian National Bank shall annually inform EBA of the list of the issuer banks referred to in para. 1, t. 3 and the lists of programmes and emissions covered bonds referred to in para. 1, t. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u177	Thank you, Mr. Shalafov. I am opening the discussion on the texts of the title of Chapter 5 and art. Art. 34 to Art. 69 inclusive. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote: the name of Chapter 5 by importer; art. 34 in the version of the Commission; the name of Chapter Six (a) by importer; art. 35 by importer; art. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 37 by importer; Articles 38, 39 and 40.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Art. 43 in the version of the Commission; art. 44, 45 by importer; Articles 46 and 47 are edited by the Commission; art. 48 by importer, the name of Chapter 8 by importer, Articles 49 to 54 in the version of the Commission; art. 55 by importer; of art. 56 to 58 in the version of the Commission; the name of Chapter 9 of the Board; Articles 60 to 66 of the Commission; art. Art. 67 s. (b) by importer; art. 68 and 69 are edited by the Committee on Budget and Finance. We vote all the texts in full. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u179	Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u181	Thank you. They voted 124 MPs in the House plus 2 online The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Shalafov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u182	..Chapter 10...Searchful measures. Administrative penal provisions. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 10a. "Section I "Supporting measures". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Section I. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 70: Art. 70. (1) The Bulgarian National Bank may apply the measures under para. 2 where he finds that an issuer bank, an observer of the cover, an extraordinary manager, their employee, a member of a management or control body of the above, a person who performs management functions under a contract, as well as persons holding a qualified shareholding in an issuer bank, have performed or carried out activities in breach of that law, its implementing regulations, BNB decisions, and where the exercise of control activities by the BNB is prevented or the interests of investors are threatened, including where: 1. an issuer bank has been authorised for a covered bond programme on the basis of incorrect data or other irregular means; 2. an issuer bank no longer meets the conditions under which the authorisation for a covered bond programme has been granted; 3. a bank shall issue covered bonds without having been authorised in accordance with the provisions of Chapter Six; 4. an issuer bank shall not comply with the requirements for keeping a cover register in accordance with Section VI of Chapter Two; 5. a bank issues covered bonds that do not meet the requirements for separating the assets from the cover in accordance with art. 49; 6. a bank issues covered bonds that are not covered by eligible assets meeting the requirements of Section I of Chapter Two; 7. a bank issue covered bonds that are covered by assets located in third countries in breach of the requirements laid down in art. 5, para. 2 - 4; 8. a bank shall include assets in the cover pool of covered bonds using an intra-group structure for issuing covered bonds within the meaning of Chapter Two, Section III, in breach of the requirements of that law; 9. an issuer bank shall not comply with the conditions for joint financing laid down in Section IV of Chapter Two; 10. an issuer bank does not comply with the requirements for the composition of the cover pool laid down in this law, including the requirements for supplementing or replacing assets from the cover according to the requirements of this law, the supervisory instructions of the BNB and/or the terms of the issue; 11. issuer bank does not comply with the requirements for derivative contracts in the cover pool set out in art. 10; 12. an issuer bank shall not comply with the requirements for the separation of assets from cover in accordance with the provisions of Chapter Two, Section VI and Chapter Eight; 13. an issuer bank shall not provide the required information or provide incomplete or inaccurate information in violation of the provisions of art. 46; 14. issuer bank systematically does not comply with the liquidity buffer requirements in violation of Art. 14. 28; 15. A bank issuing covered bonds with entities with the possibility of deferred maturity shall not comply with the conditions for their use laid down in art. 34; 16. An issuer bank shall not take into account the required information or provide incomplete or inaccurate information about its obligations in violation of the provisions of art. 47. (2) In the cases under para. 1 BNB may: 1. send a written warning to the persons under para. 1; 2. order in writing to the persons under para. 1 to take specific measures within a specified time limit necessary to prevent and remedy infringements, their harmful effects or the risk to investors' interests; 3. require an originator bank to change its policies, procedures and methodologies for the approval, modification, renewal and refinancing of the assets arising from its activities that are included in the cover pool of the covered bond issue; 4. require a covered bond issuer to appoint or remove members of its management bodies or employees who have been assigned special functions in relation to the covered bond programme; 5. set additional requirements for the issuer bank in relation to issued covered bonds; 6. require the issuer bank to make changes in the cover of covered bonds in respect of eligible assets or derivative contracts, including by changing the conditions under art. 38, para. 2 in which it has issued the authorisation for a covered bond programme and to require the issuer bank to increase the minimum level of over-security of covered bonds above or under the terms of the issue levels by including ancillary assets in the cover pool; 7. require the issuer bank to appoint a cover observer, to replace an existing cover observer in accordance with Chapter 4 or to make changes to the contract concluded with it; 8. require the issuer bank to replace the agent of the collateral or representative of the guarantors or to make changes to the contracts concluded with them; 9. replace the appointed extraordinary manager or make changes to the act of appointment; 10. inform the public of an activity related to covered bonds issued which threatens the interests of investors; 11. make public information about a committed infringement with an indication of the intruder according to the order of art. 75; 12. suspend the supply or sale of covered bonds from a given issue; 13. propose to the Financial Supervision Commission to suspend or remove covered bonds from trading on a regulated market or from another trading system from a particular issue; 14. request from the bank an issuer of covered bonds additionally or more frequently providing information than provided under art. 46 and 47; 15. withdraw the permission of a programme or issue covered bonds. (3) The Bulgarian National Bank may apply measures under para. 2 and where, on the basis of the evidence collected, it can reasonably assume that the issuer bank is likely to violate the provisions of that law and the implementing regulations within the next 12 months. (4) At the request of the BNB, the Registry Agency shall record the circumstances, respectively, the acts under para. 2, in the Trade Register. Section II............................................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 71, as in para. 1 the word "acts" is replaced by "normal acts" and in para. 8 words.............................................................................. 70, para. Art. 2 The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 1 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). 70, para. 2 of this Law, the provisions of art. 26............................................................................... Section III "Administrative Penal Provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Section III. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 72: Art. 72. (1) A bank issuing covered bonds without permission or in violation of BNB's permission under Chapter Six shall be punished with a penalty of 200,000 BGN. to the larger amount between 5 000 000 leva. and 5 per cent of the total annual turnover of the bank according to its latest report approved by its management body and in case of a repeated infringement of BGN 400 000. to the larger amount between 10 000 000 leva. and 10 per cent of the total annual turnover of the bank according to its latest report approved by its management body. (2) An issuer bank which has committed an infringement under art. Art. 24 or art. 25 is punished with a penalty of 10 000 to 250 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 20 000 to 500,000 BGN. The administrator of the bank, an issuer who committed a breach in the first sentence, is charged a fine of 5000 to 40,000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 10 000 to 80 000 BGN. (3) An issuer bank which has committed a breach of Chapter Two, with the exception of art. 24 and 25, chapters 3rd, 5th, 7th and 8th of this law or of its implementing regulations, shall be punished with a penalty of 20 000 BGN. to the larger amount between BGN 1 000 000. and 2 per cent of the total annual turnover of the bank according to its latest report approved by its management body and in case of a repeated infringement of BGN 40 000. to the larger amount between BGN 2 000 000. and 5 per cent of the total annual turnover of the bank according to its latest report approved by its management body. (4) Observer of the cover, which committed a violation of Chapter 4 or other provisions of this Law and of the regulations on its application, shall be punished with a penalty of 15 000 to 100 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 30 000 to 200 000 BGN. (5) For the conduct or admission of infringements of this law or of its implementing acts, other than those referred to in para. 4 if the act does not constitute a crime, individuals are punished with a fine of 10 000 to 200 000 BGN, and in case of a repeated infringement from 20 000 to 400 000 BGN. If the intruder is a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 20 000 to 500 000 BGN is imposed, and in case of a repeated infringement from 40,000 to 1 000 000 BGN. (6) Who failed to comply with the administrative measure imposed by the BNB under art. 70, para. 2 is punished with a fine of 5000 to 100 000 BGN, and in case of a repeated infringement from 10 000 to 200 000 BGN, and if it is a legal person or a sole trader of 20 000 to 500 000 BGN, and in case of a repeated infringement from 40 000 to 1000 000 BGN. (7) Where the value of the losses acquired or the value of the losses prevented as a result of the infringement under para. A fine is imposed on the natural person up to the double amount of this value, but not less than 5000 BGN, and in case of a repeated infringement not less than 10 000 BGN, respectively the legal person and the sole trader shall be subject to a penalty to the double amount of this value, but not less than 10 000 BGN, and in case of a repeated infringement not less than 20 000 BGN. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 73. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 74, as in para. 1, t. 4 and 5 the word "supplier" shall be replaced by "supplier" in the case of "supplier" in the case of "supplier" in the case of "supplier" in the case of "supplier" in the case of "supplier" in the case of "supplier" in the case of "supplier." 6 the words "supervision under this law" shall be replaced by "supervision of covered bonds" etc. 7 after the word "preliminary', the words "reportable' shall be added. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 75, as in para. 1 the word "sublegal' is replaced by "normal' and the words "in' in the publications contain information' are replaced by "reporting information'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 76, and after the word "supplied" "supplied" is added. "Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, i.e. 14 the word "law" is replaced by "this law" and so on. 21 the words "or public supervision" shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 and shall replace the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3 and shall, at the end of the day, be added (OJ L 328/29 of 18 December 2019). It's all right, it's all right, it's all right. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 4, there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 4. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ By 8 July 2022 the Governing Council of the Bulgarian National Bank shall issue the regulations under art. 26, para. Art. 6, Art. 32, para. Art. 5 and art. 44, para. 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. (1) The law on mortgage bonds (prom., SG No. ...) is repealed. (2) For mortgage bonds issued until the entry into force of this Act, the regime of the repealed Law on mortgage bonds shall apply. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... (1) Bonds issued before 8 July 2022 by a credit institution having its registered office in a Member State which is subject to supervision to protect bond holders, including the requirement that the bonds raised by the issue be invested in assets which, throughout the period of the issue, provide cover for the claims relating to bonds and which, in the event of the issuer's insolvency, are used as a priority for the repayment of liabilities to bondholders until their maturity is deemed to be covered bonds within the meaning of that law. (2) The Bulgarian National Bank shall monitor whether the bonds under para. 1, the issuer of which is a bank authorised to operate under the Credit Institutions Act shall comply with the requirements laid down in para. 1. Chapter 9 shall apply accordingly. Under § 7, there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 7. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, i.e. 2 everywhere the number The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, i.e. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EC) No Under § 9, there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 9. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In the Law on Bankruptcy (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1, t. 1 Finally, the assets included in the covered bond cover register under the covered bond law are added. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63, para. 3 after the words of the Ministry of Finance under art. 152b, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act. The claims of the creditors on covered bonds under art. 1 of the Public Finance Act shall be added. 26, para. 2 of the Covered Bonds Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, i.e. 4 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The following information Under § 13, there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 13. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 13 be rejected. There is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 80 words of mortgage bonds shall be replaced by covered bonds and the words of the mortgage bonds shall be replaced by the covered bonds. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, i.e. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2 words shall be comma and shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, and the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, i.e. 1 the According to § 19 there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 19. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19: "Seriously, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. (1) The law shall enter into force from 8 July 2022, with the exception of art. 6, para. 4th sentence, second sentence, Art. 26, para. Art. 6, Art. 32, para. Art. 5, art. 44, para. 5 in connection with § 3 which shall enter into (2) Paragraph 9 concerning amendments to the Bankruptcy Act shall not apply to insolvency proceedings opened at the date of its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u183	Thank you, Mr. Shalafov. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion on the texts read by Mr. Shalafov. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. We shall proceed to voting on the following texts: the name of Chapter X, which is by importer; the name of Section I, which is by importer; art. 70, which is in the version of the Commission; the name of Section II, which is by importer; art. 71, which is in the version of the Commission; the name of Section III, which is by importer; art. 72, which is in the version of the Commission; art. Article 73, which is by importer; Art. 74, which is edited; art. Article 75, which is in edit; 76 also; the name "Additional provisions', which is by importer; § 1, which is edited; paragraphs 2 and 3, which are also edited; the name "Transitional and final provisions'; paragraphs 4 and 5 which are edited; paragraphs 6, 7 and 8, which are also in the version of the Commission; § 9, which is also in the version of the Commission; § 10 by importer; § 11 by importer; § 12, which is in the version of the Commission; § 13, which is in the version of the Commission with a proposal to create a new § 13 and dropping out of proposals by the importer; § 14, which is an importer; § 15, which is an importer; paragraphs 16, 17 and 18, which are in the version, and § 19, which is also in the version of the Budget Commission. Eva Miteva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u184	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u185	Mr. Lyubomir Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u187	Thank you, colleagues. They voted 131 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online.. 133 total: 124 in the Chamber and 2 online.. 126 total, not against, abstentioned 7. That's how the offer is accepted. We move on to item four of the agenda for today, namely: HEARING OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE STATE AGENCY FOR THE ENGINEERS AT THE MINISTER COUNCIL OF BENEFICIARY. 110 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE SITUATION OF CRISIS CENTRES RECEIVED BY THE STATE AGENCY FOR LEARNERS AND THE GENTITY OF THE AGENCY TO PRESENT EXPERT AND TRANSFERANCE. Importer: Elizabeth Belobradova from March 10th this year. Here you are, Mrs. Bellobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please allow the chairwoman of the State Agency for Refugees Mrs. Parvanova in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. Please vote for admission. Colleagues online: Eva Miteva? Colleagues, I don't know how we're gonna listen to people who won't be allowed in this room. We will wait a few more seconds, as colleagues enter the Chamber and have failed to vote. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. Please invite the persons to the hall. Mr. Svilensky? Colleagues, is the importer going to make a statement on his request? Here you are, Mrs. Bellobradova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Today, I invited the President of the State Agency for Refugees to a hearing in the National Assembly because, in principle and in logic, the State Agency for Refugees must be the leading structure in the current crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, a crisis that requires a lot of professionalism, speed and working systems. The State Agency for Refugees had to be a source of solutions, proposals for budgeting, initiate processes. None of this is happening, and no one is surprised. Anyone familiar with refugees' problems long before the war in Ukraine knows that the Agency's leadership has not been able to provide elementary standards of work for years. That is why I can testify on my own after a visit to the Registration and Admission Centre, after talks with dozens of refugees, NGOs who directly care for them. According to the National Report of the Asylum Information Database in 2021, the reception conditions in the accommodation centres are below the minimum standards required. With the exception of the Centre in the District of Vrajdebna. in Sofia and in the secure areas for unaccompanied children, the other centers are experiencing recurring problems with infrastructure and material conditions and do not even present basic living conditions, including maintenance of basic personal hygiene and such of the common and private premises, and this is not from lack of money. I can personally confirm what was said in the report regarding housing conditions at the Harmanli Centre, where children and adults are mixed, stuffed in rooms, although at the time I was there, only 48% of the Centre's capacity was occupied. Hygienic conditions were under all kinds of criticism. Medical care in three appointed doctors has been denied or neglected in women who have had a miscarriage and a woman with one kidney who has not been examined for six months. That's what I learned in private conversations with the women and the manager of the Centre was unable to show me documents to refute any of these claims. People with wounds were asking me for medication while the administration was trying to banish them. All this does not allow Ukrainian refugees to be accommodated in the centers at the moment, because it will finally become visible the truth that the money allocated to Bulgaria for these centres has not even achieved a minimal result. Today refugees are accommodated from Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq and other countries, but there we are afraid and ashamed to accommodate refugees from Ukraine, because at last this conversation will become truly public. But to see the other functions of the State Agency for Refugees as a trainer of other institutions in this relevant crisis situation, namely Border Police. Although the State Agency for Refugees should be the most informed, yesterday a Ukrainian citizen went to the centre of the State Agency for Refugees and told her that they had no idea at all what a temporary protection procedure was. On the website of the State Agency for Refugees yesterday appeared at all the first news related to Ukraine on 15 March! In the English version of the news there is no active link, no details of mode, conditions. With regard to internal work with the Council of Ministers, the State Agency for Refugees has not submitted a single report on the crisis to the Council of Ministers, there is no strategy tabled, in general we have nothing that the Council of Ministers has received as useful information from the Agency itself. So my question to Mrs. Parvanova is a general question. Where is the State Agency for Refugees? How does it intend for these statistics and facts to take the Agency's leading position in crisis management, and how will strategic, administrative and, above all, management take this place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. Mrs. Parvanova, you have 10 minutes to answer the general questions raised, which are the subject of this hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Bellobradova! Your question is in writing about the state of crisis centres led by the State Agency for Refugees and the Agency's readiness to provide expert and translation assistance. After your clarification yesterday that the inquiry concerns registration centres of the Agency, I provide the following information. I'll hurry up with what I've prepared so I can answer the rest of the inquiry you just shared. The State Agency for Refugees under the Council of Ministers conducts the state policy for granting international protection to foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under the Asylum Act, the European acquis and the international acts to which Bulgaria is a country. The Agency shall apply established admission standards, conduct international protection proceedings by assisting third-country nationals seeking international protection and through a set of initial cultural and social adaptation measures during their stay in the Agency's territorial divisions. We provide shelter and food to those seeking protection, access to medical and psychological assistance, social, legal advice, as well as translation from the relevant languages. We work coordinatedly and in cooperation with the national authorities competent for migration issues, social support, accommodation in services, healthcare with national health inspections, education with regional education managements, with other institutions, as well as non-governmental organisations working on international protection activities. The implementation of the tasks entrusted by law, the Agency shall provide financial support through the state budget and with funds from the Fund, Asylums, Migration and Integration. The Agency is responsible for four territorial units: RCC They shall accommodate third-country nationals who have applied for international protection until their proceedings have been completed with an effective decision. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that these third-country nationals have so far been illegally entered into Bulgaria without documents established by Border Police, handed over to the Department of Migration to the Ministry of Interior and accommodated in their specialized temporary accommodation homes, which are of a closed type, talked by the National Security Agency and then placed in the territorial divisions of the Agency for Refugees, which are of an open type. For illustration only, in 2020 3525 persons were accommodated in the centers, in 2021 three times as many as 10 thousand. 999. Citizens of third countries in international protection proceedings shall be accommodated according to standards used by all Member States, admission standards, account shall be taken of their nationality, ethnic or religious affiliation, gender, marital status, belonging to a vulnerable group and other personal characteristics. The total capacity of the territorial divisions and 5160, currently 45 per cent and a large proportion of the vacant areas in the territorial units are also used for quarantine facilities. You know, it's been a second year because of the Kovid that all the requirements of the Ministry of Health are met. The RPC in Sofia consists of three dorms, the other registration and reception centers have no divisions. The conditions of territorial divisions are in accordance with Directive 213/33 of the European Union on admission conditions, standard and good practices for reception and accommodation of persons seeking international protection, paying particular attention to vulnerable groups. Regular support shall be carried out by staff of the Agency and frequent renovation activities in the premises. Only as an illustration, in 2020, in the RCC, the Harmanli built heating installations on two of the large buildings, which on average have 1500 square meters of deployed area. Repair and replacement of internal installations of another building, which is four-storey. During the RPP Sofia, in the hostel of the Military Ramp there were repair and differentiation of premises, this is one floor for social, cultural and educational needs. In the hostel of the RCC, Sofia is built a medical insulator. A small water treatment plant has been built in the RPP. In 2021, the RPP "Harmanli" repair and differentiation of a space for social and cultural and educational needs was carried out. This is a hall, which is almost two thousand square meters of open area, with closed opportunities for sport and educational activities. In order to ensure administrative and household needs, contracts concluded under the Public Procurement Act, sanitary and hygiene materials and articles of primary need, for the preparation and delivery of ready food to foreigners, for security, for two-way translation services from Arabic, Kurdish, Farsi, donations, pastu, Urdu, Hindu, Hindi, for extremely rare languages, such as tigers, Bengali and others, shall benefit from the support of the European Asylum Agency. Defecation, disinsecting, deratization as scheduled and controlled by regional health inspections shall be carried out. Gas for heating is periodically supplied, clothes and shoes for children in need for international protection in territorial divisions shall be provided as necessary. Such provision shall also be carried out in coordination with the non-governmental sector. With regard to the expertise and expert support that the Agency has and it appears to be placed on the premises, I would like to inform you that the work of the staff of the Agency is very specific. The Agency for Refugees under common understanding is a type of state administration, but employees carry out field production. The newly appointed staff shall be put into work on an individual plan and shall undergo training on modules depending on the area in which they will work. Registers This is not just a form to be filled out, and these are people who enter into the AIS. Interviewers are employees who conduct administrative proceedings for international protection. There are specialized ones who specifically interview children, social experts, experts on countries of origin. Those experts on countries of origin shall draw up references, including at the request of the court. They are also regularly involved in thematic trainings of working groups organised by the UNHCR Agency, UNICEF, the International Organisation for Migration and others. The conduct of proceedings for international protection, which by law lasts from four to six months as soon as possible, and the preparation of a reasoned proposal to pronounce with an individual administrative act requires complex skills to conduct an interview, to collect evidence and to express an impartial assessment of individual refugee history in accordance with substantive requirements. Individual administrative acts ending the proceedings under international protection shall be subject to two-instantial judicial review. If I could just say again "11 thousand" last year registered, 5060 decisions were issued, of which just over 100 were appealed. Until the moment on your finger count is those that the court has returned for review. Mostly expert assistance is given to foreigners seeking international protection in territorial units for effective access to social and health care, such as social and material support, providing access to free medical care and services, enrolling with a personal physician, accompanying to a hospital, including vaccination of children on schedule. You know, in Bulgaria vaccination is mandatory for certain age groups of children. The Agency shall use tools for an effective and personal approach to the specific needs of asylum seekers and particularly vulnerable persons within the framework of the reception and procedure, the standards of the management of the EEA........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... After carrying out the evaluation, support measures are envisaged, a plan to guide whether to medical services, specialized psychological support, legal services, search for families in cooperation with the Bulgarian Red Cross and other NGOs and others. If necessary, an additional support plan shall be drawn up to be implemented. There are 32 employees for social activities of the Agency in total, there are 10. Each registration reception centre has a health office, and for RCC Sofia, there are three health offices in each hostel. In these health offices work doctors or paramedics and nurses or lab technicians. These health care professionals are obliged to perform initial medical intakes, to take blood, etc., whatever is necessary to enable the person to be tested. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In 2021, 22,476 initial and outpatient examinations were carried out, i.e. at least two examinations were carried out on each person, and 4794 persons were enrolled with a personal physician, something that did not always happen quickly, because personal doctors were also busy. For example, in the RCC, Harmanli has good practice. There a personal doctor visits the Centre twice a week, if necessary, he also carried out vaccinations of those who wish at the Centre against Kovid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u193	Mrs. Parvanova, it's been a long time. If you want, some of the things you can then answer the questions to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u194	I'm sorry. Okay. In terms of psychological care, psychologists at the Agency, unfortunately, there are two. They apply a questionnaire to identify people seeking protection with traumatic experience. We're in very good coordination with non-governmental organizations. Psychological support is provided by the International Organization for Migration We're recording the kids at school. We've got 110 kids enrolled in school this year. Since 2017, we have been actively working to include children in the Bulgarian education system. With regard to the translation, because it was explicit in the question, we currently have 18 contracts in force. They have been concluded 2020 and 2021 and 2022. They are mainly for the languages I said just now, and we have a contract concluded in Ukrainian. We are currently conducting a procedure and will conclude an emergency for three months for translation into Ukrainian. This is mainly based on the Agency's activities. And because Mrs. Belobradova raised the question of how the Agency reacted to the fugitives from the war in Ukraine, I would like to say here that citizens coming from Ukraine enjoy the right to a 90-day legal stay. They come with legal documents. They themselves are not sure whether they want to apply for international protection, for temporary protection, but the Agency is in close coordination as part of the coordination mechanism, an operational coordination mechanism established in the Council of Ministers. I am co-chair of the Interdepartmental Working Group, together with the Deputy Minister of Interior, who are responsible for border control, entry and protection. Yesterday we signed an agreement. We have trained 121 employees of the Ministry of Interior not only from Border, but from different ODMIs. The last 60 people yesterday were from Pernik, Kyustendil, Blagoevgrad, Sofia-district and I don't remember what the fifth city is, but it works around the clock anyway, it doesn't stop. Colleagues managed to upgrade the AIS. [[the President signals that time has run out]] which is administered by the Agency for Refugees, and that is why we need to train them and provide access, which we do. And there's training at the moment. Sorry it took so long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u195	Nothing. Still, it was important to hear. If there are any questions, you will continue with some of the things you do not have time for now. Now we move on to the questions. We're continuing the Change? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Chairman of the State Agency for Refugees, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! We live in dynamic times of military and humanitarian crises. A country's policy towards refugees also defines its values, and the concrete measures and actions we take for those in need define us as a society. The Scriptures say: "Because I am hungry, and you have fed me; I have become thirsty, and you have watered me; I have been a stranger, and you have taken me away. " - Considering that we are 15 years in the European Union and Ukraine is in Europe, we are giving our hand to European citizens. Mrs. Parvanova, in your response, I have heard nothing about the citizens of Ukraine seeking help. On 5 March I visited the Crisis Centre in Varna and there were no persons from the State Agency for Refugees to assist those seeking help. In this regard, my question is: how does the State Agency for Refugees participate in the mechanism coordinated at the level of the Council of Ministers to support those fleeing the war in Ukraine who have arrived in Bulgaria? As a representative of the district of Burgas and following the work closely of the Crisis Centre there, there are large queues for Ukrainian citizens who wish to gain status, based on that your employees are only two days a week. My question is: can a daily presence of your employees be provided there? And last but not least, I sent you an e-mail on March 9th, which I still don't have an answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u197	Thank you, Mr. Tashev. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Parvanova. You have five minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u198	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Tashev, under Order No. P-36 of 4 March 2022, an operational coordination group with six interdepartmental working groups, each with their duties, is responsible for, as I have already said, the Agency for Refugees together with the Ministry of Internal Affairs Yes, on 5 March there was no one in Varna yet, because we discussed and specified any possible legal, administrative, organisational and other measures that need to be taken in order to enable the upgradeed AIS system to work, so that decisions can be made to make possible registration of citizens seeking temporary protection, even at the border at the initial reception points, as well as to be able to prepare documents that need to be amended. How do we participate in the support mechanism? Yes, it is. Colleagues who are present come to Burgas to make a registration. Last night, they only registered for international protection. Until now, those seeking support in Bulgaria wanted international protection because health insurance for persons in international protection proceedings is in the order of the Bulgarian citizens, and that provided for those seeking temporary protection, provided only those under 18 and vulnerable groups. The Ministry of Health also had a meeting with them, they worked very actively. As far as I know, they are preparing an amendment to the Health Insurance Act so as to align these two rights under both types of protection. I just couldn't find out about anything since March 9th, I couldn't understand what you asked me, I just didn't hear, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Parvanova. From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Gadget, for question one.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Parvanova, first of all, I would like to start with one clarification, and it is for the two statuses which have.. one is international protection, which is the long process given under the different conventions to which Bulgaria is a member state and it takes a long process for its issuance and is therefore unlimited, while temporary protection is under the mechanism that is now being launched on 4 March, of the European Union. It was launched by the Bulgarian government on March 10th with RMS No 144, which is the short procedure and the quick procedure for this status to be given quickly, is for up to one year. By March 10 there is no way to give such temporary status for the simple reason that the decision of the Council of Ministers is from March 10th. The strange thing, by the way, in it, is that I quote: "The persons who entered the territory of Bulgaria from Ukraine receive temporary protection from 24 February until their express request for the use of temporary protection, but no later than 31 March 2022." My question is this: since until recently I am sorry if I exceed the time, but if I may, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u201	I'll let you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u202	...are there any documents at all, and in the process we found out. And yesterday we saw all the pompous opening of the border how the welcoming mechanism itself was done. By the way, it is described in the application of the RMS in question, but the RMS itself does not concern what is happening with the granting of temporary protection status within the territory of the country, i.e. for the people who entered before 10 March, or before 14 March "before the opening of these centres." People who are already on the territory of the country, according to public data from the media, there are about 38,000 Ukrainians, who may, some of them, ask for temporary protection status. Are there instructions, documents and procedures by the Council of Ministers how it is done to give temporary protection at the points either to the SAB or to the migration department or elsewhere to give temporary protection status to people who are already in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, i.e. who will not return to the border to be processed? Since when is this happening, if it is already happening, because I think that everyone who is interested in the topic and wants to help is coming up to 31 March so that people who want to have the opportunity to register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u203	Come in for an answer, Mrs. Parvanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u204	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gajev, yes, there are instructions to all who will be making registration under international protection, as you said, this is a much faster procedure. It states that at the moment when the person with documents he owns stands at the border and goes to any ODMI or regional management, he will be able to fill out the form at the moment, as provided for in the AIS. That's why we signed an agreement yesterday with the Ministry of Interior. As of last week, we are training employees of the Ministry of Interior. They will issue these temporary registration cards to a person with temporary protection. Maybe 50 more people will be trained right now and it's only a matter of days. With regard to the deadline that you have pointed out in March 31st, I assume that it will perhaps be discussed to be extended, because, when it was discussed, the number of people who arrived in Bulgaria because of the war was not that great. You already know 38,000 are those who have remained on the territory of the country, but the Ministry of Interior is also provided for by RMS No 144, has established an organization and are training these employees daily to the extent that we follow the trainer principle for training trainers, and they will train their colleagues accordingly. There are people from the Department of Migration from the Department of Identity Documents, who are very experienced and for them is not a problem. There are instructions on how to work with temporary protection, so these employees will hardly be a problem, and colleagues at the Agency are constantly issuing accounts and access to information. Since when? From the moment. In fact, yesterday the initial reception point in Ruse started, where there are two employees of the Agency and Durankulak, where there are two other employees of the Agency, but as I said, we are considered to be stationary work with territorial units. We have 25 registrars, of which five new ones. Some remain to work in the centers, others we send to train or to register, depending on what we can cover as a capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Parvanova. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? No question. From the BSP for Bulgaria? I won't. There is such a people? Here you go, Mrs. Mostrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u206	Dear Mrs. Parvanova, a problem with the system of the State Agency for Refugees left hundreds of citizens today from Ukraine in Burgas without the opportunity to submit documents for temporary residence status. The reason your employees have indicated is that there is a problem with the software, and that there is currently a training of these employees of yours. Are you familiar with this problem? What legal and factual measures have you taken to resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Mostrova. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Parvanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Mostrova, I don't know where you got this information. There was no problem with the software regarding international protection. As I explained earlier, IT specialists have been working in an area where I am by no means an expert to make it possible for temporary protection to work. The legal and technical measures taken are expressed in a signed agreement with the Ministry of Interior, approved models of the temporary protection card, continuous co-ordination actions in relation to the fact that the Agency for Refugees is the administrator of the AIS, and any other operational and technical activities that I could very hardly tell because they happen all the time. Even now, while I was waiting, we're sending people to train, they come to us to train and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Parvanova. Mrs. Belobradova, come in for a question on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Parvanova! I do not know where to begin, but I will return to your initial report, which was within 15 minutes, I will comment on some of the things that you have touched on one by one. The provision of psychological and health care. All the NGOs I've talked to, all the refugees I've talked to, with every single person outside the State Agency for Refugees administration, including one or two of your employees and one or two former employees, say practical psychological assistance is not offered. Of course it's recorded, but it's not available. I've already commented on health care. I personally talked to a woman who had one kidney, and six months after four times she asked for a medical examination, she didn't get one. The manager couldn't give me papers on the fact that it wasn't true, because in the end, there must be medical records for this. Translators. I understand that languages are complex, however, as far as I know from all of them, a translator falls to 2000 people, and you are aware of what this means in terms of communication, the drafting of documents at all for status. As regards the established quarantine facilities. According to an official report, underage children were quarantined at the centers for 14 days on their own to stay in these new quarantine facilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u211	Mrs. Belobradova, just to remind you that you need to ask a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u212	Yeah, well, I'm gonna ask a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u213	Then you'll have time for an opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u214	My question is regarding the NGO that you were so kind to mention that you are working with it very actively. After my visit, a month later, I was warned repeatedly that the Foundation's Mission Krile will be denied access to the RCC Harmanli. Is this true because, if so, what right do you have to mention it in your report right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Parvanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u216	Dear Mrs. Belobradova, I personally signed the letter with permission to access the Foundation. I simply cannot remember the date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u217	A month ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u218	There's no such thing. I know what I signed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u219	Was that the answer? Thank you. The question suggested a brief answer. Do you have a question? Here you are, Mrs. Mihailova, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u220	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Parvanova, you have made a detailed statement. In it you mentioned that the capacity of the centers is busy 45%, in the meantime we observe how a huge wave of empathy has risen in Bulgaria and literally every Bulgarian is engaged in some way with support of refugees in this way, as we may consider these peoples to be brotherly peoples, as we from the AGE have been too many times from this tribune. My question is this: how do you as an Agency keep in touch with the centres that are formed by regions and with those people who are currently in need, because we ourselves as participants in this kind of campaign accommodate and know about many accommodated such citizens from Ukraine who come and seek asylum in Bulgaria, who are sheltered by private individuals, by non-governmental organizations, how do you actually lead statistics? What happens to their papers, is there such a statistic? Finally, do you have a profile of the people who arrive in Bulgaria because usually such a profile is given and removed, now the information we receive is obtained by NGOs and by personal observations rather than officially by the Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Parvanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u222	Thank you. Ms. Mihailova, I would like to draw attention to those fleeing from the war in Ukraine legally entering the territory of the country, they are entitled to a 90-day stay if they decide to transit if they decide to apply for temporary protection. Coordination with accommodation groups, social affairs and everything else is in the operational coordination mechanism. In each of the interdepartmental working groups participate representatives of the Agency at a sufficiently high level, I give an example: Vice-Presidents, Secretary-General, Directors of Directorates who are constantly in touch with their colleagues. In terms of profiles. Perhaps this has further delayed the establishment of the information system in temporary protection, as it is of a newer type and there will also be sufficient information inside about those who have received temporary protection concerning their profile.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Parvanova. Moving on to the second round of questions. Do you have a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Madam Head of the State Agency for Refugees, we have heard that there is still no profiling of the people who are arriving from Ukraine. I would like to ask you the question whether there has been an expert evaluation by the Agency for Refugees about how many people are expected to seek assistance from the Agency? In this regard, what part of the Agency's capacity will be mobilised in the Ukrainian refugee crisis? Are there also experts in countries of origin already? How many people are hired specifically for Ukraine? Are contests launched and how many people will they be for? Also with regard to social assistance to parents and children, as you know, even from the media is quite obvious one of the main categories of people seeking protection in Bulgaria are mothers with children. In this regard, do you think that 32 social workers are sufficient and have you taken measures to increase the Agency's capacity in this regard? Thank you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Korcheva. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Parvanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u226	Thank you for your questions. This is a new approach that may indeed be more difficult to understand at the moment. An expert assessment of how much they will seek at this stage may be done jointly by all the working groups. The registration of the persons, as I said, will be carried out by the Ministry of Interior. Experts on countries of origin are already working on the information in Ukraine. We are constantly announcing competitions at the State Agency for Refugees. People come, train and go to more attractive places, ministries, where their career development can be better. With regard to social assistance work colleagues, from us... from social assistance Vice-President in the interdepartmental working group "Social activities." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Parvanova. Second question from GERB's parliamentary group? Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Parvanova, I suppose I'm going to put you in an awkward position, ask my question briefly, but after a little preamble. The modern problem with the refugees in Bulgaria is a relatively new problem for the last five years, although this is part of our historical destiny and two thirds of our ancestors are refugees from somewhere. I would like you to comment on the following, without giving assessments, just to tell us: where and what real problems the Agency is currently facing in collaboration with the other government services along with what is happening with the Ukrainian wave? Because, colleagues, pay attention, nine tenths of the people who are currently entering Bulgaria, and Mrs. Parvanova reported it, they do not want to be refugees. They have the right to sit here free 90 days without explaining to anyone where they go and what they do. I myself had amazing cases in Varna. Forty people stay in a hotel in the evening, a person accommodates them, voluntarily opens their doors. He brings in 40 bags of snacks this morning because there's no kitchen, and he wants to feed them, and there's none. They washed, made their beds, washed their floors and went somewhere without anyone knowing where they went and what it was, just continued their journey somewhere without giving any explanation. Our impression of terrain and places is that the government has been completely unprepared and so far for nearly two weeks after that it continues to reign an unbuilt chaos in everything that is happening. Quite naturally, because you are called the Refugee Agency, all eyes are on you and therefore all heavy words will be taken by you. We would be mutually beneficial if you are here now able and ready to tell us the measures you expect from us, legislatively, from the government in the executive power, if you need more people, tell us how much and what. If you need a bigger budget, let me know. I mean, otherwise I don't see the point of all this gathering we've been doing so far. What can Parliament do with many things, of course, perhaps a little slower as a procedure, but I will lock up with what the colleague previously asked: the assessments that are found in open sources, sites that deal with migration problems, say that Bulgaria will have between 300 and 400 thousand refugees from Ukraine, that is, an optimistic forecast, we can expect so much. Now, what are we going to call them, refugees, temporarily staying, seeking protection, non-seeking protection, these are the physical people who have come. For reflection, I will just tell you that at the moment the people who have come are just as much as they lost Bulgaria to a horse. Every crisis is also an opportunity to be mutually beneficial, and I very much hope that you can really tell us exactly what you need so that the services can work more effectively, and I hope, colleagues, such a hearing, which will undoubtedly be much more useful, to do with the newly established headquarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u229	We'll do it, just to see how it goes. Here you are, Mrs. Parvanova, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u230	That's the next point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u231	Yeah, it's the next point, only to see how far we get.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dilov, thank you for understanding. Thank you for your question. The difficulties we have actually encountered so far in connection with the development of this new software, in connection with the stick, because this is the first time such a thing has happened. I said, the previous ones came in illegals without papers in another order. These come legally with documents. Things really took a lot of effort from a lot of people, a lot of coordination. You have understood, as I have learned, that the Ministry of Health envisages this legislative change. It would be great if it could happen as soon as possible. We will continue to announce competitions with our capacity, including we have sent a request to the chief usher, because the costs we are making are unforeseen for the Agency, but we have assurance that they will be somehow provided. Indeed, at the moment when there is a need, under the Order of 4 March for the operational coordination group, a deputy prime minister has the opportunity to submit proposals to amend legislative acts, that is, anything that comes in that order will probably need support for more speed, efficiency in order to resolve matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Parvanova. Moving on to the second round of questions. From the DPS? You have no question. BSP? I can't see. There is such a people? I won't either. ..Democratic Bulgaria, do you have a second question? No. Breeding? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u234	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Parvanova, as we all know, there are perhaps half a million in Ukraine, and perhaps even 600,000 Bulgarians. Accordingly, we have repeatedly called for special attention to be paid to our compatriots in Ukraine and not only, at all, to all our fellow Bulgarians who live outside the borders of today's Republic of Bulgaria. Accordingly, our question is as follows: do you pay special attention to them? Is there a special focus on our countrymen from Ukraine who are fleeing the war there? Are there statistics on how many Bulgarians from Ukraine are against all refugees from Ukraine? How many of them want to stay in Bulgaria? How many of them, respectively, use Bulgaria only for transit to other countries. Accordingly, have you taken measures and actions for those of them who want to integrate into our society, because this can become much easier precisely because they are our compatriots? Have you taken such measures, what exactly are you planning, so that you can ease their integration or find work, settle permanently in our country? Once again, how many of our countrymen from Ukraine? Do you even have any statistics? Have you prepared one, have you worked on one that affects the Bulgarians from Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u235	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Parvanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u236	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Georgiev, the statistics on passed and transited are contained in the arrays of the Directorate-General of Border Police. With regard to the categories of persons to whom temporary protection is granted, Bulgaria, as a Member State of the European Union, complies with the provisions of Directive 55, which was activated on 4 March with the implementing decision of the European Commission. With regard to work and under the Asylum and Refugees Act, the State Agency for Refugees has links with organisations offering work, respectively we provide the information to the residents in the centers. In this case, information about who offers work, what and all such information is located on the website of the portal "Bulgaria for Ukraine" which is centrally managed, coordinates in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Parvanova. With this, we have exhausted the questions and are moving towards expression of attitude by the parliamentary groups. We're continuing the Change? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u238	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We heard some answers we wanted to hear. Unfortunately, at least in person what I expected, somehow I didn't understand it. For example, the war began on February 24th. We understand that the first reaction of the State Agency for Refugees was on March 5th. In a word, after 4 March, after the European Commission's decision on the temporary directive on temporary protection came out. Given that permanent international protection has not stopped acting in any way, I am quite surprised, given that Mrs. Parvanova is... actually today she is doing seven years at the State Agency for Refugees. She was chosen exactly seven years ago. Before that she was the Ministry of Interior Minister and she should have had a lot of experience, I mean, the Agency should have been at the border crossings on 24 February so that they could enable all those willing to apply for refugee status, get it or start this procedure. I didn't hear that there was such a reaction. I heard that the first reaction was after the European Commission's decision. That we have a precedent, yes, it is a precedent, so far no such thing has been voted on, but given the experience it should have, we are beginning to ask the question: is there actually an administrative capacity for the Agency at the moment to carry out its duties? Somehow it turns out that maybe she wasn't fully prepared for the job she was supposed to do. Now, we know how the Agency operates, as we had other crises a few years ago. All arrivals are brought into a camp where no one sees them, and they begin one treatment. The only thing that bothers me is that the Agency can process about 30 applications a day. I don't know what capacity he has to process 30?! Now, if we have 40,000, of them we will see how much international or permanent protection will be declared, or temporary, but somehow it seems to me that the Agency was not prepared for what was supposed to be done, but should have been first on the front line, as they have the most experience and should be concerned. All this attitude that I say, I say it from the point of view that I have worked for the United Nations for two years, the Refugee Commissioner, and I have seen a well-organised work that, in times of crisis, reacts and acts. Unfortunately, some post-factum action. But the question is how are we going to stop now and quickly clear the case. I also received a signal from Burgas yesterday about a pregnant Ukrainian woman who was not given the documents she should have received. There's been some delay. I don't know if it's the software that my colleagues said or some other problem. So I would call on us to focus, if there is a need for administrative capacity, to give this request, to be organised so that we can meet the needs, because really more and more people will come, some of them may benefit from temporary protection, but others may also ask for permanent protection. And I disagree with one of the speeches here that international protection is a very slow process. When it is for humanitarian reasons, there is an opportunity to speed up this process, so it is a matter of organisation and of a political solution as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u239	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Attitude from GERB's parliamentary group? Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u240	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mrs. Parvanova! It would be very unpleasant if the government is currently erased by the State Agency for Refugees, which is likely to happen. As we assumed this would happen, you know that we submitted a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Asylum and Refugees Act, in which we envisaged, provided and hoped that you would examine it without contemptuously rejecting it before we read it, the procedure for how it should be acted in this situation, where not only the State Agency for Refugees but all state authorities, including local authorities, will, by the way, be faced with the limits of their powers. Clearly, such a situation never happened. It is clear that the State Agency for Refugees, as defined in the law and as it has worked so far, has not been consecrated, has not been designed for such a pressure on refugees and on such a situation. We, colleagues, very often in other discussions, use the words "decentralisation" and "subsidiaries" and this is one of the situations, in my opinion, in which we can actually show and prove how the principle of subsidiarities works and how effective decentralisation is done. It is clear that the main burden of the refugee flow falls on the mayors of municipalities. That's objective. The state agency with its three centers in the country cannot deal objectively with the situation. And what we have foreseen in our bill, which I ask you to read again, is actually the State Agency for Refugees to be a coordination information centre to coordinate the efforts of the municipalities. We have invited the State to note in the Bill that its authorities cannot cope with this task if they do not engage the municipalities. We have noted that the funds for refugees should be directed to municipalities, not to hoteliers, and we have paid attention to Ukraine's citizens with a Bulgarian self-awareness, indirectly responding to what the colleagues of aging said that there should still be, to say it, a special look and perhaps a faster track. So it seemed to us and it seemed... No, it does not seem to us, it is an objective fact that the government is not doing well. The government is not doing well because there is no capacity because there is no vision of how to deal with such a situation because they have been making an Internet site for a month now and they think that a website can deal with a refugee stream, we make software. I don't know why we decided that all social problems can be solved in virtual reality. They won't be solved in virtual reality, they're decided on the ground. And the mayors are on the field. That's the third time I've said it. So, Mrs. Parvanova, I'm sorry that you're taking the hit, I'm sorry that you're saying like Angela Merkel: And we really wanted to help you, we want to help both the State Agency and the entire state administration, by giving advice on how to handle a purely organisational and logistical issue that we are facing. It would be very unfortunate, again, if the government wiped their hands with the Refugee Agency, which wouldn't be fair, it wouldn't be fair, and the Agency doesn't deserve it, and I shouldn't take that shot. Moreover, it is a secondary authorising officer of a budget and, even for this reason alone, it is clear that the Council of Ministers, to which it is subordinate, bears full responsibility for what is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u241	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. DPS attitude? I can't see. From BSP? I can't see. Is there such a people who are dealing with the hearing? You won't. So, then, Democratic Bulgaria? Here you are, Mrs. Bellobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u242	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The truth is that no one is ready for this crisis? not a single country that currently accepts refugees. But it is also true that we cannot use either the administrative or building resources of the State Agency for Refugees, because in seven years the management has not created any conditions for this. Mr. Cholakov is right to say that the Agency is not prepared for logical reasons, only we have to say that it has not been prepared since it was created, and it is very important to say. Let's say, for years, how do we escape the absolutely destroyed and unrepaired centers where refugees are accommodated, how does that happen? How do we constantly avoid talking about corruption for years, about obtaining fake addresses, about the money being given out, how do we always avoid having one translator for 2,000 people, how did minors who have been quarantined for 14 days escape us? How all these things escaped us when there was no war in Ukraine, when we had an absolute opportunity to deal with it, and we continued to have capacity even under the great influx that we claimed there was. In 2021, the Centre was 48% filled. And although it was 48% full, all the rooms in the centers were crowded with people, mixed children, men, women sleeping on each other? How does that work? I don't know how he managed to escape for seven years, and the fact that many of the centers are full of bedbugs, but instead of changing the mattresses, we buy pillows for them. The good thing is that people who have been working for a long time on issues with the Agency for Refugees do not go out now simply to use them for political purposes like myself, but have submitted more than a month ago a report on this to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers has reacted with the appropriate verification by the State Financial Inspection for the Agency. So the problems he has with the Agency for Refugees are not from today, not from yesterday, they're seven years old. And these problems are currently seeing what the results of them are - a non-working administration and a leadership that must resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. And attitude from the parliamentary AGE group. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u244	Mr. Chairman, I mean, for the people who are here right now, and for those who are watching, a few short numbers. The total number of staff employed at the State Agency for Refugees receiving remuneration as of 14 February 2022. A total of 330 pieces. The amount of remuneration of the staff on 14 February 2022 for the period from 1 February 2021 to 31 January 2022 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 524 thousand. BGN 175. Report on service vehicles as of 14 February 2022 s 35 pieces, 49 thousand. BGN 456. For all this stuff, 5 million. BGN, we received answers that were sufficiently general, sufficiently unspecific. Personally, what I heard was that the question, which was clear, clearer, was there any prioritization of the Bulgarians who come as refugees, did not get an answer. It has been quoted that we respect some common commitments that we have to the international community and which we have signed as international treaties and agreements, which is a fact. However, I would like to remind you that in our history we have received refugee waves mainly from Bulgarians, of course, in the last 140 years several times, with the last such a big wave after World War II, when nearly 80 thousand refugees from Belomore Macedonia arrived in Bulgaria, expelled from the Greeks, and the Belomore Thrace, by the way. To them the Bulgarian state then, without having an Agency for Refugees, reacted in a much, much more human way. We here, of course, do not say that there should be any difference between Bulgarians and Ukrainians who come because they all run the same way from the war. However, we are Bulgaria, which means the country of the Bulgarians, and we must have a special attitude towards our compatriots, they must come first. This thing, Mrs. Parvanova... Mrs. Parvanova, hello! Because when I speak, you don't listen. You obviously don't care what the MPs say.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u245	He's even listening to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u246	What I actually heard here was general talk, lots of general talk, nothing concrete. And there were specific questions, not just from us, but from all the others who were here, from all the MPs. I do not see the point of the existence of this agency - another parasitic structure in the state administration. And I think we have supporters here in other political forces as well. We should not and should not in any way receive at this very moment when our society is most excited about what is happening at the borders, to receive such a kind of attitude, it is simply not respectful. And so we will raise the question of whether, indeed, as is, of course, this one, there are many other such agencies in our state administration, to what extent are they needed? Because if we look really, we'll see that what we once had as one or two departments has now developed a tree structure and it's become like a separate quasi-government, and we're not just talking about this agency. Three hundred and thirty pieces, almost five million, four and a half million budget. And what do we get for it? That's what I'm talking about. And look, check out our international commitments. We know them, but we do not see the Bulgarian commitment to the Bulgarians and to the suffering people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u247	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. We are also running out of item four of today's agenda. Moving on to the next point: HEARING OF THE MANAGER OF THE OPERATING-COORDINATION GROUP FOR THE EVACUATION AND ACCOMPANYING OF THE EARTHERS FROM THE UKRAINE VALERS RACHEV OF THE BOARD 110 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON Government MEASURES RELATED TO THE BENEFICIARY WOLF. Importer is Desislava Atanasova on 15 March 2022. Just to remind you that there was a break requested by a parliamentary group, so the working time is up to 2:15 today. First, I would like to suggest that we grant admission to the room of the Head of the Operational Coordination Group for the evacuation and accommodation of the refugees from Ukraine. Please, voting mode. I ask the Quaestors to invite colleagues who have not understood and are in the hallway. I'm gonna wait ten more seconds because a lot of colleagues have come in, let's not disappoint them, let them exercise their right to vote. They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. That's how the offer is accepted. Please invite Mr. Ratchev to the gym. I give the floor to Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the hearing of the Head of the Operational Coordination Group on the evacuation and accommodation of refugees from Ukraine was included as a item on the agenda. In any case, in the last two weeks, it has become clear that the government is setting up some kind of organisation, setting up the operational coordination group for the implementation of the activities for which the Deputy Prime Minister of Good Governance is directly responsible. The questions, of course, are many and they are of every nature and although yesterday the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister visited two of the entry points for entering Bulgaria of precisely such people fleeing from the war in Ruse and in Varna, I believe that only the head of the operational coordination group for the accommodation of refugees can answer essentially how the government in the person and the deputy prime minister specifically, what directions to the operational coordination group gives in view of the social, health insurance, with regard to the accommodation of these people, including the questions asked by numerous hotel managers, as there is still no answer to the question who will pay and under what conditions for the accommodation of these refugees. Of course, it's such a big deal. It also requires answers to questions regarding social, health insurance, employment insurance, as well as access to the educational system of these families, mainly women and children who are currently entering Bulgaria. However, given that by the end of the plenary session remains less than half an hour, I would also like to make a procedural proposal tomorrow for this hearing to continue, after we have finished with the items on the agenda that have already been voted on, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth and the ninth, and if we cannot get all the questions answered, to ask all the questions on behalf of all the parliamentary groups, to do so in the plenary sitting tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Shall we put it to the vote tomorrow at the beginning of the meeting or now? [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Okay. I put to the vote Dessislava Atanasova's procedural proposal tomorrow to proceed with Mr. Rachev's hearing from where we are today, to continue tomorrow after the end of the points of the Programme, which are for tomorrow. They voted 144 MPs: 75, against 2, abstention 67. The motion is accepted. [[(Reply from.. Continue The ……]] They voted 159 MPs: 79, against 7, abstention 73. The motion is not accepted for one vote. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] We'll continue with the hearing. Mrs. Atanasova developed the question. Here you are, Mr. Rachev, for the exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u250	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mrs. Atanasova! Thank you for the opportunity to answer your questions. Taking a lesson from the previous hearing, I'll try to be as specific as possible. I'll start with what Mrs. Atanasova asked directly. The policy of the government, as it is brought to me by the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister personally, is to do the procedure for granting temporary protection in the best possible way for those who arrived in Bulgaria, and at the end of this process we see elements of integration policy of these people in Bulgaria. The task is open to the most widely public-private partnership, and according to the instructions only issues related to crossing the border and granting rights to temporary protection are not subject to public-private partnership, everything else, any aspect can be realised and must be implemented through cooperation with local business, civil society organisations and volunteers. This is the common framework. The goal is as good as possible to welcome people, smarter, more European, more human, so that they can make important decisions for themselves and their lives. Our work began, as highlighted by the MPs, in a slightly complicated situation, after there had already been about 18 thousand. people entering Bulgaria so that the tasks that the coordination group received were, firstly, to establish control over the ongoing process, secondly, to adapt existing procedures, organizations, etc. to the conditions for working in a temporary protection regime, and thirdly, which is most important, to create a basis for integration in the municipalities and districts, in the society of Bulgaria, in the business of Bulgaria. The task of the operational group is to coordinate such actions, which lead to the achievement of the goals set by the government, with the main focus on horizontal coordination between the institutions, this is first, and this is important because the problems we are solving have a complex character. If we want the mother to work, the child should be in kindergarten or in school. If he should be in kindergarten or school, he should have the appropriate health status. These problems cannot be solved if we only work in the sectors and only in hierarchic terms. This is actually the main task of the coordination group in the three operational spheres. The other tasks are carried out on the territory of the municipalities and the districts in full interaction with the district governments and with the municipalities. This interaction so far, on the one hand, solves many of the weaknesses of the administrative approach, because the interaction of the terrain especially between civil society and business is much more flexible than what the institutions can offer, and ultimately people feel the attitude of the Bulgarian state above all through what is happening in cities and municipalities. In all these areas that I have defined, we have serious problems to solve. Some of them solve hell hock, others create a system, others work and rely exclusively on the contribution from the bottom up. There is no illusion that only by administrative means the task that is set, the goal that is set by the government, can be fulfilled. I can share that the first task of easing crossing the border crossings, that is, entering Bulgaria in accordance with the European Union Directive, which must be as relieved as possible, is done in a new way, there has been no such procedure, but it is done in a new way with two tasks. The first task is to issue a document as quickly as possible, which opens up opportunities for any person with such a document to benefit from the privileges of temporary protection. The second task, the software is constantly being added, I hope, today everything will be working. The task is to gather such information that the process of accommodation, transportation and integration, i.e. social services, education, health care and employment, can happen in a manageable way. This is very important to us because otherwise we will remain only at the level of general talk. This is the truth because people focus for an understandable reason in the region of Burgas, Varna and in the region of the Black Sea coast, and then the work should be searched throughout Bulgaria. In other words, this process is slowing down somewhat, to this day it must be resolved perfectly, but it is very important. Accommodation is carried out so far by decision of the government mainly on a hotel base. The problem with the hotel base is that it is mostly sea And the second problem is that she has to be profitable for the hoteliers. That is, we need to create and already have the mechanism of activation of hotels as a roller, in the sense that when the capacity of a hotel is filled, we give the next ones who have stated a desire to participate in the program, a signal to start their preparation. Thus, we strive not to allow two things to prevent tension in cities. The second, the aim of this mechanism is when we get information on what people want at the border of the pre-acceptance points, if they want to be accommodated at all, if they want to work, if they have health problems and so on, we have the opportunity to direct them directly to the hotel we have prepared. Then the tensions in the centres to assist the arrivals will be of a completely different nature, it will be a human nature, it will be a volunteering activity, not so much the activity of the institutions that have proved not quite as high as it is so far. The next question is transportation. Transporting starts at this moment from Ukraine's borders with Romania and Moldova, where there are six consuls sent. These six consuls are tasked with issuing early signals about the approach of those willing to leave Ukraine from the depth of the country. The information is provided at the situational center of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence has set aside buses, which immediately go and start moving people back to Bulgaria. This is the one time that is so far, so to speak, of a call if necessary. However, most of them arrive from Ukraine with private transport, figuratively speaking, the Odessa line continues to work, about four buses arrive in Varna a day. In Burgas up to now, two buses that come with the assumption that someone will meet them and take care of them. In other words, a large number of private carriers drive to the bus station or already to the reception centre for arrivals from Ukraine. This loads the centers further because they get the distribution function in hotels. What we need to do as soon as they activate the preliminary reception points is to remove this load from the city and municipal centers to meet the arrivals. A huge number of people enter by car and by their own plan, and BDZ has provided transport, free transport from Ruse, which is effective so far, but at the same time is quite different from the car because the bus arrives, and here 200 people arrive by train at once. For this reason, the center for welcoming arrivals in Sofia region is located at Central Station and this is a specific problem. The specific problem with regard to railway transport stems from the fact that the train coming from Bucharest comes with a diesel locomotive, we drive them with Our goal is in the future to involve corporate transport in order for corporate transport to travel beyond the border, and these buses that we have from the Ministry of Defence, they are potentially 12, to be used for more dynamic transportation of people inside the country. This is important, this capacity is important because very soon we have to stop sending people just along the coast and guide people where there are jobs. The problem of Sofia is that the desire of the hoteliers to participate in the program for 40 BGN. It's not big. For this reason, there is a secondary problem with redistribution in Sofia and people are going to Pernik region, Montana and in the region of Western Bulgaria. It's a manageable process, but we have to have the primary information to make decisions. Colleagues, so far entering Bulgaria is a matter of desire. As soon as we launch the preliminary reception centers, entry and accommodation in Bulgaria should be a matter of our decision. So we're starting to manage the process the way we want it to. Of course, those who do not want to take advantage of our proposals are free, as has already been said, within 90 may even be extended by another 90, that is, 60 days they can remain with the resources they have. We will take care of those who have expressed a desire to move. In this regard, as the question has already been raised, the date 31 March is critical, you already know the problem, little modest figures have been said about the need for prepared registrars from the regional police departments and the regional government of the Ministry of Interior. I would say that we need 1,500 of these, so the instructions we have given are to move on to training trainers so that the effect of this training can rapidly multiply. It's signed, I don't know if Mrs. Parvanova said, an agreement between the Ministry of Interior and the Agency to close the entire procedure in police structures, which gives us the opportunity to approach directly to the places where people are placed. The next group of issues are related to local integration. Integration covers health, social and education rights. In all these areas we have certain regulations and in all these areas we have unresolved problems. In other words, the transposition of the 2001 European Union Directive has been done fairly fully, but has been done at the high level of decisions. At the low levels where practice takes place, we find every day problems that need to be solved by changing the regulations. In this regard, the working groups shall draw up proposals for amendments to the regulations. Next week they will be consulted as a complex under the leadership of the Ministry of Justice and the lawyers of the Council of Ministers in order to decide which of them will be decided by acts of the Council of Ministers and which should be proposed at your will. Things are really very complex, very detailed, for example, the one who needs TelK must go through Bulgarian TELK, that is, no other documents apply We have some serious business to attend to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u251	The weather, Mr. Ratchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u252	Yeah, one minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u254	...with regard to health status, especially children, rights and procedures for assistance, especially unaccompanied children. On the European Union's line, there are already warnings of interest from criminal groups to this particular contingent. The next question is publicity, i.e. interaction with civil society. I cannot say that the established system of websites oriented towards Ukrainian citizens and the people who come from Ukraine, and a website that is oriented towards Bulgarians who want to help, including offering work, is not an important issue. For me, it is a very important issue, because on the first day we had more than 15 thousand visits, there are concrete proposals, of course, that will not solve the problems of people's integration. The employment agency has drawn up a map of the jobs and it is going to the places where people are staying. It's the only way. I don't have time and I don't have the permission to reveal the details inside, but we want, firstly, the employment policy of the state to be preserved. The second is to prevent illegal use of those people who are in need. Those are the principle questions. The most important thing we have managed at the level of districts is to activate the district governors to take matters into their own hands. It was the only possible solution. We have problems communicating in some municipalities between the district governors and the mayors, for which I strongly ask your support, the political struggle is important, but the political struggle cannot be done at the expense of those who came from Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-16.u255	Thank you, Mr. Ratchev. I have given more time for an opinion, as we still do not have time to proceed with the hearing due to the exhaustion of the time limit of the sitting. That's why I'm adjourned. The next meeting will be held tomorrow at 9:00 on the agenda adopted earlier this morning. [[PHONE RINGING]]
