ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:00:23]] Registered -425 There were 425 national deputies registered in the hall. The evening session of the Supreme Council is publicized. We continue to implement the schedule of meetings. Dear colleagues, we've just been looking at a whole complex, a whole series of bills that have a direct bearing on the work of companies in the fuel and energy complex. Today was not included in the agenda that you were given, but on the concording council there was talk of us going back to the question -- Bill 5120, which also has something to do with it. That's why I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Electricity Act. Project registration number 5120. Please vote. [[16:01:54]] For-142 The question is not supported. Yes, we need to put it in order of day and look at the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Off-Breaking Transactions in External Economic Relations. It's registration number 5423-1. [[concerning imports of raw sugar]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[16:02:57]] For 121 The question was not supported. We need to put it into the agenda and look at the draft city electric transport law. Registration number 5247. We're voting for inclusion in the agenda. [[16:03:34]] For 266 Questions in the agenda are included. Please report to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities Semchuk Grigory Mihajlovich. Grigory Mikhailovich, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u2	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! The Ukrainian Law on Urban Electrical Transport, drafted according to the billing plan of the Cabinet of Ministers. The need for its adoption is due to the crisis of Ukrainian city electric transport, as well as to the need to prevent the repetition of errors regarding urban electric transport, especially on the ground, which have been allowed in separate cities. Dear National Deputies! City electric transport operates in the 53rd cities of Ukraine, in large industries and in all district centres, with the exception of the city of Uzhgrad. This mode of transport is carried annually by almost 4 billion passengers, or 65 percent of the total number of urban passengers. It has to be stressed that this transport has become actually social, as it primarily transports the benefits of passenger categories, particularly pensioners. Since 1991, Ukraine has developed a steady trend towards the complexity of urban electricity companies, which has led to a deterioration in population service, reduced mobility, and the number of routes. For example, during the period indicated, the number of moving convoys decreased by a third and the volume of transport work nearly doubled. But it's not just the accumulation of problems, it's just the final destruction and disappearance of trams and trolleybuses from the streets of our cities. There is a real threat of the closure of tram and trolleybus connections in small towns in Ukraine. This is largely due to the fact that the existing legislative framework does not take into account the specificities of urban electricity in market economy conditions. In particular, Ukraine's Transport Act, adopted in 1994, defines only the basic principles of transport operation, while the laws adopted in its development: rail transport, road transport, and road transport, have taken into account the characteristics of these modes of transport. Logically, the government also proposes to adopt legislation for urban electric transport, which, by the way, is not the most environmentally friendly, especially for large and resort cities. The key norms of this law are: the provision of urban electric transport services on contractual grounds with local self-government authorities, the provision of public regulation in the area of urban electricity, the establishment of civilised relations between all transport operators, the identification of order and sources of financing for the renewal of the mobile warehouse. In particular, the final rule regulates the purchase of a mobile warehouse at the expense of the State and local budgets for co-financing. This also confirms the experience of developed countries where the upgrading of public transport is carried out in accordance with the principle stated. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been drafted with the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, Kiev, Sevastopol City Administrations, the Ucretrotrans branch, enterprises, relevant ministries and offices. The bill is in line with the basic position of European Union legislation in the area of urban public transport. He was considered and supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration, on State Building and Local Self-Government, on Budget, and by the Committee on Transport Construction, Housing and Communications. Dear National Deputies! The adoption and implementation of the bill will create the necessary conditions for overcoming the collapse of urban electricity transport, contribute to improving the quality and safety of passenger transport, improving the financial situation of enterprises, eliminating chronic debt for electricity consumption and paying wages, and improving the environmental situation in cities. Local authorities will increase their ability to purchase mobile warehouses in connection with the introduction of solid financing for the purchase of mobile warehouses, which will contribute to the development of domestic production of tram cars and trolleybuses, subway cars, and so forth. The government is asking for the support of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u3	Thank you. Sit down, please. It's a short-circuited procedure. The head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities and Communications, Valery Pavlovich, please, will report for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u4	Honourable National MPs, honourable chairman, Committee on Construction, Transport and Housing and Communications, have repeatedly considered the development of local electricity as part of it. the problems of reforming housing and utilities as well as separately. This was due to a number of reasons. First. The financial situation of urban electricity companies has deteriorated in recent years. The volume of transportation decreased 1.6 times in 10 years, and the moving stock decreased by almost 35 percent. In individual cities, there are prerequisites for the total blocking of urban transport. The lack of funds to upgrade the moving stock, capital repairs, and current calculations have objectively reduced the safety of passenger transport. Please note that even now, 60 percent of all passenger traffic is under difficult conditions. During the year, more than 3 billion passengers are transported. Two reasons have a significant impact on the deterioration of the financial situation, I would say, even three reasons. First. The government’s misappropriation of its financial obligations, compensation and transfer of passenger premiums from government and local budgets does not exceed 40 percent of the need, about 300 million dollars, and 680 million dollars. So figure out how many trams and trolleybuses we can buy for 400 million dollars. City councils, when the conditions for commercial passenger transport are approved, are formally suited to the calculation of existing electricity routes. As a result, the route, severely disrupting traffic schedules and fixed routes, takes away a paid portion of the passengers in electric transport. Third. There's no technical refuelling. I would also like to point out that Europe has long understood the advantage of urban electricity, such as environmental cleanliness, economics and convenience. The volume of tram and trolleybus lines, not to mention the subway, is increasing in Europe. I would also like to point out, please listen carefully to the fact that urban electricity is now operating as a social transport service, transporting 80 percent of all passenger income categories. These are first of all pensioners, students, Chernobyl liquidators and so on. The committee asks you to support this bill and to adopt it as a whole. There is absolutely no comment on the committee or on the national deputies who worked. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u5	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Please, Orzhachowski, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u6	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Communist Party. Dear colleagues, voters! The Communist faction in the Supreme Council, which I represent, supports the proposal of a profile committee on the draft Law on Urban Electric Transport, and in the vast majority, this transport is usually used by socially-unprotected citizens. The point of view of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government is also positive. Allow me to draw the attention of MPs to the pros and cons of the bill. The City Electrical Transport Act is one of the bills that is called upon to regulate legal relations in the areas of provision to residents of the territorial transport communities. The urgency of this step has been due to the significant deterioration in the quality of passenger transport in recent decades, as well as the increased cost and cost of transportation for citizens. In fact, the city’s electric transport stopped its development. Almost a third of the population has been reduced, and weariness has reached 80 percent. In many places, the authorities have replaced trams and trolleybuses with taxis and other types of automobiles. Such a situation contradicts world trends is increasingly affecting the environment, causing growing dissatisfaction with passengers. Therefore, the purpose of this bill is to create conditions for the safe and quality provision of urban transport services. The clearly defined positions of responsibility of the carrier and the obligation to transport passengers in accordance with the terms of the legislation and agreements on the provision of transport services, damage to health and property of passengers, and the environment. The carrier is also responsible for the adequate accounting of the services provided to him and for the information provided to the customer. Considering that the major damage in urban transport is due to the need to transport a large number of citizens belonging to many of the population's income categories, it would be appropriate to establish a system of compensation for carriers of the cost of services provided in advance and in full compensation by executive authorities and local self - government. It is also appropriate to regulate the provision of electricity for urban passenger transport, including electricity bills and the order of responsibility for violating the law. In the vast majority of the world’s developed countries, urban passenger transport is not viewed as a business type, it carries social functions, and it is financed by local budgets. This is particularly true for the development of transport infrastructure. Unfortunately, only in recent years has something changed for the better. The introduction of the bill will help eliminate the negative trends in passenger transport, and I think to some extent.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u7	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u8	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the things the minister has said today are very scary. I mean, almost two since 1991, there's been a reduction in the volume of transportation by trams, trolleybuses, and other electric transport. You've been reported to have a one - third reduction in the number of moving convoys. But I'm interested in another number here, and I'm interested in a number that I want you all to take steps to make sure that it doesn't happen. The weariness of the moving composition that is 80 percent. I was horrified to see what kind of transportation was now going to Odessa. It's a disaster. Every day, Ruslan Bodelan sells land, and nothing invests there, every day, and hides in the "Regions of Ukraine", is covered by the Prime Minister. You report correctly. Look at the condition in which we have Odessa's trolleybus control. And of course the adoption of this law in the first reading is urgently necessary. But on the 14th, the article "Tariff policy and payment of transport services", which can have a major impact and a major impact on the even more socially unprotected sections of the population that are currently used by trams, trolleybuses, has to be recorded that tariffs are being set up to protect the most vulnerable. Not only is it written here in part two: to ensure the safety of carriers. I want you to mean that, the drafters of the bill. I'm calling the Transportation Committee. We can leave people without this kind of transport if we write it down. That's why I insist that there be a formula here that would actually allow you to do this kind of service and finance it from the State Budget, because it's actually another addition to pensions that our people don't add all the time. Next. I fully agree with the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration on article 18, where they propose to write the first part of article 18. For three years after this law became effective, electricity tariffs for urban electricity are applied to the population. Because it's the same thing for the population. And the second. Where they are prohibited, paragraph three, write down: It is prohibited to exclude urban electricity from electricity supplies during passenger transport, except for the removal of the consequences of accidents in the power supply systems. If we don't write it down, we're going to make people worse. And more needs to be done to comply with the Transport Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u9	Please, Nigger. For reasons, Eshchenka. And we'll figure it out. Ještenko's microphone, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u10	Fucking Communist faction. Honorable MPs, distinguished voters. Before voting in favour of this bill, I want to remind you that recently there was a strike in Cherkas by trolleybusters who had not worked for two weeks. And one of the requirements was the adoption of this law, the City Electricity Act. Not only do the Churches need it, but the whole of Ukraine needs it. That's why I'm calling on the National Deputies on behalf of all the Trolleybusters of our Ukraine to vote for this law as a basis and then as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u11	Yeah, it's a black guy's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I also support the proposal to vote in favour of this project. I would like to point out that this is an extremely comfortable mode of transport, an environmentally clean mode of transport, an economic mode of transport. And I want to support the tariff proposal. For the second reading, this proposal needs to be taken into account in order for tariffs to be the same as for the population, otherwise prices will increase. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the draft City Electrical Transport Act, registration number 5247, on the ground. [[16:20:11]] For 359 There is a proposal for a profile committee to put this Law in general as the Karmazin Proposal Act, with which a profile committee agrees. Please vote. The committee agrees with Karmazin’s proposal. As a whole, we vote as the Law. [[16:20:41]] For 359 The law was passed with the offer of a national deputy named Carmazin, who was accepted by a professional committee. We are considering a draft law supplementing article 57 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. [[on responsibility in the field of drug use]] This is registration number 4183. The Deputy Head of the National Committee for Natural Resources, Vijacheslav Mikhajlovich, reports. Please. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u14	Turtle Viacheslav, deputy head of the State Committee on Natural Resources. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs! The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences was developed by the former Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine to implement Presidential Decree No. 485 of June 6, 2003, with the aim of introducing administrative responsibility for violating the conditions of special licenses for the use of nadrama, as well as for the illegal extraction of useful fossils of local importance that have recently become widespread. The bill provides for the addition to article 57 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the imposition of a fine on officials from 10 to 14 untaxed minimum income for citizens for violating special licenses and for illegally extracting useful fossils of local value. These changes are aimed at increasing the responsibilities of business entities under special licenses for the use of nadr areas and for the illegal extraction of useful fossils of local value. These changes also need to improve and correct the situation in the field of drug abuse, since the current legislative framework lacks responsibility for these offences. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Code will increase the responsibility of economic operators working in the field of drug use. On the one hand, this will contribute to the complex, rational and efficient use of nadr, on the other hand, allowing illegal mining of useful fossils to be stopped. I would like to point out that this bill has undergone all the necessary preparation and approval on the Committees of the Supreme Council, and the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster proposes to adopt this bill as a basis. Please support him, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u15	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, and Consequences is to report. The committee secretary? Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u16	Dear colleagues! The committee reviewed and supported a draft Ukrainian law supplementing article 57 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on the Responsibilities of Economic Operators in the Field of Drug Use, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The committee considers it necessary to take into account the scientific and expert management's proposals in the drafting of this bill, in particular to provide for administrative responsibility for natural persons in cases of infringement of the rules on drug use, compliance with the penal code in part of the responsibility for obtaining income on a large scale. The committee considers it appropriate to increase the measure of responsibility compared to the proposed measure of the bill. It should be noted that the State Building Committee has proposed that a draft law be submitted for further work, motivated by the fact that the increased responsibility extends only to officials, whereas the drug users may also be individuals. The committee believes that this proposal can be taken into account when the project is being finalized. The Law Enforcement Committee supported the bill. The adoption of the bill is intended to prevent infringements of the licensing conditions for the mining of useful fossils and the misuse of the arbitrary extraction of useful fossils of local value. The committee proposes to adopt this bill on the basis of the following work. And a few sentences on the requirements of the Ukrainian Nadra Code, articles 16 and 19: "Any activity on the use of nadra, including mining of useful fossils of local importance, requires a license. At the same time, a few days ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not quite approve Bill 3366 on licensing certain types of activities, which provided for licensing the extraction of beneficial fossils of all those belonging to the State Register of Useful Mines of Industrial Value. Only 70 deputies voted in favour of this bill, which I believe was evidence of misunderstandings by the vast majority of the factions of this important case. So I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues, when our committee and committee deputies will be submitted again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yavorowski, no. Yes, please, Carmazin, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u18	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the conclusion that the National Deputy Solomon has just made a statement on behalf of the Committee. There's a question, but I think they can be solved at stage two. In particular, I would like to emphasize this in order to get into the transcript so that we have a responsibility and cannot say that we have no responsibility and administrative responsibility for such offences. This is article 57, 58, 164 of the Code of Criminal Offences and Criminal Procedures, articles 202 and 240 of the Criminal Code. But if we adopt this law in this way, and it's written: "The violation of the special conditions of the special license for the use of the drums entails the imposition of a fine on officials from 10 to 14 untaxed minimums." And the second part is: "The illegal mining of useful fossils of local importance entails imposing a fine on officials from 10 to 14." You can see that apart from the officials, there must be natural persons here. The committee stressed that. Now in order to distinguish criminal liability from administrative responsibility without competition, it is necessary to record that criminal responsibility arises if a violation of licensing conditions was associated with large-scale income. That's 17,000 dollars today and more. So you have to write in article 57, which makes changes, make a footnote to this content: "A large-scale income is when it's a thousand times more than the untaxed minimum of citizens' income." Similarly, we have dealt with you in the formulation of article 212, which required responsibility for tax evasion. So this formula has been tested over time and has to be applied. But when I'm doing this, I'm asking for a part of the fifth that is now being proposed to be completed, to rule out, because the responsibility for non-licensed activities is set out in Article 164 of the Code on Administrative Offences. So this supplement can be accepted in the first reading, but again I stress that the government does not take an integrated approach to changing all the legislation that relates to administrative responsibility. Making changes to individual articles is not good, it is a waste of our time with you. I'm drawing the attention of the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u19	Thank you. Please, Nigger. He's behind him, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u20	Dear colleagues! I also support the proposal to adopt the bill in the first reading. Why is it necessary? Because the field of drug use is an extremely important area in which there is no order so far. Nadra is not being used in the best way in Ukraine, there are problems here, including the need to introduce solutions to these problems into the legislative field and this is what the bill is all about. What are the two main problems here? The first problem is the violation of special conditions for licensing for drug use and the second problem is illegal mining. And that's exactly what the bill is about to solve these two problems. At the same time, in my view, in the process of preparing the law for second reading, we need to write more clearly the mechanism of responsibility for violation of the terms of use. To make an amendment, I agree with the conclusion of the profiling committee and with the proposal of Deputy Carmazin on what changes still need to be made in Article 57 in order for this law to work more effectively. And the last. Of course, it's a palate, it's not a solution to the problem, it's a typical classic example of patching holes in legislation. Regrettably, the Supreme Council is very often going this way instead of systematically resolving these laws or these issues through framework laws and codes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u21	Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u22	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I would like, first of all, to correct my colleague, this isn't the Supreme Council, in this situation, as in most cases similar bills where the government is. That is, the political bill first and secondly is really the preparation of one amendment to the article, then another, the reinforcement, then the increase and so on. So it's all working out another old Soviet mechanism of how to solve problems. So all the negatives that were accumulated in those years are now trying to rework. Old Admincodex, he needs to be changed. The fines are symbolic. But as far as the approach is concerned, perhaps the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing a new code on beneficial fossils, that is to say, regulation of regulations, mining, punishment, benefits, conditions, and so forth. This was to be written clearly, strictly and differently from what is now. Unfortunately, the codes in most cases, i.e. my analysis of the ten proposed codes 9.5 are the authors of the national MPs, and there is also Kabmin's co-authorship in one code. That's why we understand that it's just for the Kabmin to write a serious law or a bill, there's an insurmountable burden. So, of course, things have to be considered, in principle, there is a problem, and the problem needs to be solved, but not in that way. When we talk about increasing administrative responsibility, it will indeed swear by criminal responsibility. Because it's impossible to replace an easy criminal responsibility, so let's just say, to a very administrative one, no fine can be compared to being in a detention center. There's a man out there or else they'll take him to camp, he'll stay there for two or three months, he'll never want to break the law again. And in breaking the law, she's going to take into account: Yeah, the administrative department is as much as I have to dig to the left of the useful fossils to pay for that fine as well. So there has to be, really, if there's anything we want to do to help, in the first reading of the due date, but I don't think I should have done it. It was supposed to be a law enforcement committee or a legal committee. Because it's all about responsibilities, fines and stuff. As such, the committee that would carry its verdict should also be the designated Committee of Nadr and Useful Mines. So I would like to point out that here on the first reading, we are doing support purely symbolic, stressing that there is a problem. But at the same time, we need to be aware that we will not solve this problem. Because the problem is solved in a completely different plane. We need to change criminal authority to an honest one, and only then will we be able to claim that the laws will take effect. And then we're going to have to propose a full-fledged law that would eliminate problems all over.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u23	The question is closed. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the Act supplementing article 57 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on responsibility in the field of drug use. Registration number 4183. Please vote. [[16:36:03]] For 317 Decision taken. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being complied with. [[on responsibility for violations of the rules of manufacture, purchase, sale, accounting, sealing, stamps and pyrotechnics]] Registration number 4017. First Deputy Minister of Home Affairs of Ukraine Zuk Vasil Aleksandrovich will report. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u24	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is proposed for consideration. The bill provides for administrative responsibility for violating the rules of printing-graver workshops, printing and stamping procedures, the use of self-contained seals and stamps, the order of circulation of pyrotechnic equipment, and the order of circulation of hunting-related fire-fighting weapons. Also envisaged are the licensing of manufacturing and the trading of pyrotechnics, nonmilitary shootings, hunting stands, trade in special equipment, gas guns, revolvers, aerosol packaging, and the like. The need for adoption of this law is recognized as follows. Problem one. The absence of mechanisms for regulating the production, storage, transportation, trade and use of pyrotechnics in the country leads to uncontrollable imports into Ukraine of unlimited quantities of pyrotechnic products that are practically unhindered. This year, 30 people were injured during the use of pyrotechnic toys, including one person killed. Therefore, the Ministry suggests that this activity be organized in a legitimate manner. Another problem. The number of violations in recent years has increased by 40 percent in connection with the purchase, storage, sale, transfer, registration, and accounting of firearms. We suggest that this change be made in articles 190, 194 of the Administrative Code, as provided for in relatively smooth hunting weapons, which are less secure. Third. Internal Affairs in accordance with Ukrainian legislation and for the purpose of protecting the interests of the State, licenses are issued for the opening and operation of spindle-graver workshops. But the responsibility for breaking the rules of sealing and stamping, manufacturing, importing, implementing, and using self-sustaining stamps and stamps is unforeseeable. These violations have now taken on great proportions. Four. In order to ensure the safety of citizens, to create the right conditions for learning, and to maintain at the right level the skills of users of weapons, it is proposed to include in the list of types of economic activity that are subject to the licensing, opening and functioning of the firing squads, non-military shootings, hunting stands. Fifth. Today, there is also an unregulated trade of special means. The bill is supported without notice by the State Enterprise, Minyust, Minfin, State Standard, Minculture, Minpraci, Minprompolitics, Mineconomy. Taking this into account, please support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u25	Thank you. Vassil Alexanderovich, please sit down. From the committee’s profile, the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement, Neciporuk Vladimir Pavlovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u26	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear friends. I would like to report that this bill has been considered and accepted by all members of the committee by a committee in charge of law enforcement. It was only on the committee that such proposals were made or that this bill should have been passed to us 2-3 years ago, until those pyrotechnics started killing people. And the same from a different weapon. So on behalf of the committee, I ask, we support this bill, and I ask all the national MPs to accept it as a law as a whole so that it can act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u27	Thank you, Vladimir Pavlovich. Do you want to talk about it? Please, Yavorowski, follow Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Vladimir Yavorowski. The question, the topic of the bill that we're looking at today is that it's completely local, and as far as seals, stamps, that kind of thing, it only applies to individual people -- it's business managers, firms, firms, stuff like that. And of course, the second part, the second segment of this bill is the pyrotechnics and hunting weapons -- it's probably more extensive. Why did I come up to this rostrum? First of all, I support this bill because it is life that has proved to me, at least personally, that such a bill is necessary. You know these dramatic events around the Writer's Association that the President's Administration, the Medvedchuk, and the performer who daily engages in the Writer's Association. Mr. Rafalski. I think it's wonderful that we've taken the full attention of the head of internal policy of the Writer's Association, just less of a fool's business in the inner politics itself. Because of this, there was a team to produce these ones for the few people hired by the administration to make them a seal. I've been through all these circles, all these officials. And today I have to tell you that in fact today, whoever has the money, who really wants it, can basically make a stamp of any enterprise today. This does not pose a serious problem at all, and so forth. But the most important thing to take away, let's say, this fake back seal is actually those who allow, who issue it, permission to it, I mean, actually can't do it at all. You can imagine what can happen in the economy. This way you can drown, let's say, there, and big business organizations, and firms, and so on, because something like this today is in the National Writer Association, when all accounts are still closed and actually two people have the same seals on their hands. That's why I'm saying that this bill is absolutely necessary. We've been discussing weapons with you for a long time. I don't have a final answer either: it must be a radical law that should allow weapons, or not, but what Ukraine today has in store with a complete weapon, and with weapons that are underground, and every rifle that is, it shoots, sooner or later, because I think it's very normal that we're back on the subject today. I have some comments about this bill, but I'm going to put them on second reading. I think we should vote in favour of this bill. Today it's out of our hands. I think that's the law we're going to vote on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u29	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, please. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! I would like to point out immediately that this bill is necessary, that it should be accepted. If there is a reference to one or the other provisions of this law, they should be clearly formulated, they will be taken into account. Our faction supports this bill. But what I want to point out is that this is not only about the responsibility of violating the rules of manufacture, acquisition, sale, accounting, sealing, stamps, hunting weapons, pyrotechnics, but also about licensing this activity. And I want to remind you two weeks ago, when in this very room, I'm going to remind you again and again of how the famous Roman Senator Cato the Elder in the Roman Senate reminded us that Carthage should be destroyed. I will address your consciousness and remind you again and again. The licensing of mining should take place in Ukraine. Two weeks ago, it was you, your honorary colleagues, all the factions other than the Communist factions, who passed a bill on licensing and mine mining and the left centrists who spoke up and said they were against licensing at all. And now in two weeks, we've already been licensing five other activities, starting with social services, and finishing this case today. So I am addressing you, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for the exclusion of only one faction, made a huge mistake by rejecting Bill 3366 of the mining license. Today, we have been drawn to these useful fossils by greedy hands. Anyone, any organization, any natural person who's not prepared, who doesn't understand this matter, who doesn't perform their duties from an ecological point of view. So I'd like to ask you again. I'm going to put this bill back into the next session so that we don't have such a covert incident. And if it does, it will testify again that those who are gathered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, apart from our faction, are trying to make the last bite, and this last bite in the field of drug use. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u31	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine, please. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u32	The miner, the faction of our Ukraine, the valley constituency number 89. Deputies! We have scientific expertise at the Supreme Council. I have to say, it's far from the worst footage that's ever done a detailed analysis of the bill. I read both the bill itself and the scientific-expert opinion. What I'm saying is, of course, the idea of improving these relationships in the field of image making, printing, in the field of manufacturing pyrotechnics, in the field of using hunting weapons, that's a good idea. But it's the very embodiment of this bill that attacks a number of legal subtleties that are very clearly expressed in the conclusions of the Science and Technology Administration. In particular, it says that with regard to the manufacture, use and implementation of seals and stamps produced outside the established instructions, there is a Criminal Code for this purpose, and it simply makes no sense to translate them into administrative compliance. And in the scope of practical application of disciplinary and civil liability, it can lead to a paradoxical situation where, in one case, employees of a ministry will be subject to administrative responsibility, and not the other. In the end, we have a long way to go, and the production of the image itself is no longer very good, given the availability of computer technology, taking into account the availability of accurate techniques that really enable these images to be produced urgently. Obviously, documents need to be controlled in a different way and reduce the use of stamps and seals so that the pyrotechnics can adopt this law in a situation where there is no definition of pyrotechnics to the administrative responsibility of attracting those who produce terrorist products. So I fully agree with the findings of the scientific and expert office on the acceptance of this idea for legislative activity, but since the conclusion of this, nothing has changed; the law has not worked. What's more, in hunting weapons, we can get double taxation, first, free system fees, and second, license fees. All these points need to be reconciled. So still, by supporting the initiative under this bill, I propose that I return it to the first reading again to make it look more perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u33	Yuri Carmazin, the faction of our Ukraine, is the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u34	Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! I'm surprised the committee says today: let's adopt, that's the law we need -- and we didn't read 6, 7 sheets, 7, I emphasize, the papers of the conclusion of the scientific expertise of the masters of Gavronuk, Trophimov, Ledeck, well-known experts in this field. And there's more. What do you want to do? You want to change the two articles in the Code of Administering 189 with the badge 2, 190 with the badge 5, and that's all signed by Victor Janukovic. I'm talking to the ministers who are here. Well, tell Viktor Yanukovic, let him come, I'll sit down, I'll take the code, I'll open it, I'll give him a prescription, in two hours he'll be a master and he'll show you how you do it without a single note, the Ministry of Justice without a single note you're adopting such laws. How is that possible? You soften the responsibility for these offences rather than reinforce them. And that's what Eugene Gorenik said right now, who one read that article 89 with the badge 2 would compete if, God forbid, so it would be adopted in the final version, with article 358 of the Criminal Code, which provides for criminal responsibility for the manufacture of forged seals and stamps for the purpose of their use, both by counterfeiters and by any other person. And that's why it was rightly pointed out that it wouldn't have any later, if without a purpose of use, any practical meaning. With regard to the practical application of such an imperfect norm as part of the second part of this article 189 with a badge of two, the establishment of the same administrative responsibility is not justified. And I refer to article 189, which also proposes to make changes. There's a suggestion to write it down, a craftsman's term is. We're going to open the Enterprise Act. Where's the workshop? The workshop is not a business subject; it can only be a fraction of an enterprise, evidently a legal person, either a laboratory, or a bureau, or a factory, or some other business. Thus, it is totally legally inhospitable and unacceptable and is a position. With regard to the position in Article 195 with the 5 badge on licensing, there are also many questions. And a number of activities related to explosives have already been established, 263.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion on the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine has been completed. [[on responsibility for violations of the rules of manufacture, purchase, sale, accounting, sealing, stamps and pyrotechnics]] I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the Responsibility for Violations of the Rules of Manufacture, Purchase, Sale, Accounting, Printing, Stamps and Aerotechnics. Registration number 4017. Based on the base. Please vote. [[16:54:47]] For 303 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance for Disabled Persons and Children is being announced for consideration. [[on the rights and extent of payment of aid]] Reporter Goszowski Vladimir Sergiyyovich. On the contrary, the faction is against it. I can't go over the rules. Goshovsky. Then please report to the committee and to the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u36	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. National Deputy Suškević. Regarding the Bill of the People’s Deputy Goshovsky. It's a change to the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance for Disabled Children and Children. I want to say that the bill is certainly very important. On the one hand, it has a strong social orientation, on the other hand, it solves the problem of reconciling certain rules of law that apply to children with disabilities. In fact, it's not entirely logical right now that, according to the Housing Law, the minimum social standard is set for two age categories of children -- not children with disabilities -- up to six years and six to 18 years. And the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance for Children with Disabilities, Children with Disabilities, operates only on children with disabilities under 16 years of age. I mean, when I wrote this law, and it was accepted, there was great doubt that it would actually pass as a law that needed additional expenses. Today's law works, it's efficient, and it needs a clearer definition of living minimum, which is taken into account when calculating the size of state aid to children with disabilities of different age groups. It seems logical and socially fair to use a non-profit minimum for people who have lost their jobs, as is now recorded in relation to children with disabilities, and which is, by the way, smaller than the subsistence minimum for other socio-demographic groups. And this bill proposes a minimum of living for children with disabilities to take according to the age of six and for children between the ages of six and 18. I want to say that the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons considered at its meeting in November-month 2003 and noted that the legislative proposal by Vadim Goszowski should be supported and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis. I think that this position of committee will find support, your colleagues, in the hall and in the whole of the House of Deputies, because this bill actually deals with the issue of more substantial social support for children with disabilities. At the same time, I would like to say that the committee believes that when preparing the draft for second reading, it should be further developed with regard to the requirements, the standards of procedural technology, and the proposals presented in the conclusions of the scientific and expert administration and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Some of the proposed provisions today have also been worked on by me and Mikola Petrovich Noshchenk and recently adopted for your support of the Law on Amendments to the Law on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons from Childhood and Children with Disabilities. All these circumstances must be taken into account in the drafting of the law. Please support this legislative act.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u37	Yes, thank you. Drain Lydia Mikolayevna, does the Cabinet of Ministers support this? Dear colleagues, there is support for the Cabinet of Ministers, there is a committee decision. Maybe we shouldn't say, just take it as a base? What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u38	Please support me as a base.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u39	I'm betting on a vote on a committee proposal supported by the government to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons from Childhood and Children with Disabilities. Registration number 4084. Please vote. [[16:59:45]] For 369 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u40	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u41	A draft law amending some of Ukraine’s legislation on the resolution of occupational labour rehabilitation of disabled persons is being announced for consideration. Registration number 4595. Reporter Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u42	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Your point is a bill that I have drafted with the participation of social organizations of people with disabilities, many people with disabilities who have written to the Supreme Council to improve everything that affects the employment of people with disabilities, including entrepreneurs who are now interested in solving these problems more perfectly. And this bill deals more comprehensively in the legislative order with issues related to increasing efficiency in the use of funds that come in the form of fines for non-use of workplace standards for the employment of persons with disabilities. The bill is designed to ensure the loading of enterprises of the social organizations of disabled persons, the competitiveness of their production, and at the same time the incentive to cooperate in manufacturing with these enterprises in other forms of ownership and management. First of all, the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of Social Protection, which is amended, proposes to establish standards of employment for disabled persons, as well as for natural persons - entrepreneurs, representatives of foreign legal persons, including international organizations, consulates, who use the work of employed workers. Allow disabled people and enterprises based on state ownership to benefit from appropriate State preferences for the payment of taxes under conditions already defined in legislation for enterprises of public organizations of persons with disabilities. And this is going to be fair in terms of the state form of property for the employment of people with disabilities. Third. Allowing the association of disabled enterprises to set standards of employment for disabled persons, taking into account the number of disabled persons working in disability enterprises who have entered the union under the conditions of productive cooperation. This is an extremely important norm that allows today to stimulate the employment of people with disabilities and to enter into a co-operation with enterprises of another form of ownership. Allow entities to manage all forms of ownership in the case of contracts, contracts for the production of goods, jobs and services for disabled persons, to include in the actual number of jobs available for the employment of disabled persons in these areas the number of workplaces for disabled persons who are engaged in the production of goods under a contract or a contract that loads the employment of disabled persons. The bill also envisages allowing the Social Protection Fund to provide loans, financial assistance, subsidies for the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities that are not enough today, in fact they are rarely produced. The nomenclature of these products is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for enterprises with disabilities, other operators using employment, provided that they have been employed in the last reporting year in full terms of established employment standards for disabled people. It is also suggested that the use of the Social Protection Fund for disabled persons in the form of penalties should be expanded to employ disabled persons, additional employment for disabled persons, and the creation of new jobs. A commission is allowed to cancel the right to benefit from the taxation of disabled enterprises in the event of inefficiency of their productive activities and lack of social significance, i.e. it is a rule that controls the situation. It is envisaged that the Social Protection Fund may be returned if a person is created to employ fewer persons with disabilities than would be expected to provide such funds. It's also a control standard that allows for real control over the use of disability employment funds. The other one. It's about making changes to legislation. It is envisaged to amend the laws of Ukraine on value added tax, on corporate income taxation, on land pay. With regard to the granting of state-owned disability enterprises the right to benefit from State tax preferences established for enterprises, social organizations of persons with disabilities. That's also true. And I also want to say that today, there are appropriate control rules in the legislation to amend the Ukrainian Law on State Taxation in Ukraine and to empower the State Tax Administration to monitor the use of normative jobs for the employment of persons with disabilities, the employment quotas for persons with disabilities who need social protection and who are unable to compete on an equal footing in the labour market. Also, control tax administrations with a view to using subsidies for production.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u43	Allow me to finish the speech. Are you finished, Valery?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u44	I don't have two more words.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u45	I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, if the problems identified by this bill are solved, there is no need for any additional financial resources. The draft was considered by the Committee on Social Policy, the Committee on State Building, Local Self-Government, the Committee on Industrial Policy and the Committee on European Integration. Everyone has supported, and I very much ask you to support the new standards that apply to the employment of people with disabilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u47	Dear colleagues! The report is complete. Is there a need to discuss this? Then thank you, sit down, please. On the board are the names of the national deputies who have been enrolled for discussion. Andrew School, please. Excuse me, committee, I'm sorry, committee. Please, Aloshin from the committee, excuse me, Aloshin Valery Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u48	Dear colleagues! The committee considered the bill and supported it, and suggests that the Supreme Council also accept it as a basis. Although we did pay attention to that too. That the findings of the individual committees and the Scientific and Scientific Administration contain some observations that will need to be taken into account when this document is being finalized for second reading. In particular, what is the point? The point is that it is not sufficiently argued in the opinion of individual experts to amend the Law on State Taxation in Ukraine. It is also noted that there is insufficient justification for such a significant increase in the fines proposed to be amended under the Code on Administrative Offences, and there is a significant change: there is almost a 10fold increase in fines in relation to officials who do not comply with the statutory requirements for the employment of persons with disabilities. This is the point that we have drawn attention to during the discussion on the committee, but this does not overturn the principled favour of the bill introduced by the National MP, Suškević. This bill helps to provide socio-invulnerable levels of the population, people with disabilities with new jobs, and in this it's the main advantage. So once again, I ask the committee to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u49	Yes, thank you. Valery Borisovich, please sit down. The position of the government so that we can determine immediately. Please, Lydia Mikolayevna. What is the position of the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers fully supports this bill, but notes that it is working in a number of positions, first and foremost. it needs to be removed. which create unequal conditions for financial aid companies. on the granting of additional powers to the Commission on Business Activities, the organization of disabled persons to various enterprises, in particular those that only use disabled persons, and the position is unacceptable when the costs, fines that have entered the Social Protection Fund will be directed towards the production of prosthetics and orthopaedics and other issues. He may come in a second reading while he is working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u51	Thank you. Andrew School, please. Yuri Carmazin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u52	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. You know, it's really very important and relevant, as it's not a problem for Ukraine, it's the employment of people with disabilities. Indeed, we have enough large categories of people who need special places of work, special facilities, not always at the hands of those entrepreneurs and businesses that are to be employed. But frankly, I rarely agree with the government's comments, but this time they're really right. So it's not worth the haste here, but it's worth supporting just in the first reading, because there's another norm here, called, a coercive norm that's worth removing, because the state has a thousand and one way to encourage an entrepreneur in another way, that's completely legal, absolutely loyal and everyone understands, to employ a disabled person. We have an example, for example, of the gas industry, where there are 4 percent of the disabled places and there are no disabled people in those places. So, well, here's the nuances, you have to do the best way and the easiest way for the state to create special places, that is to create enterprises that would be filled with people with limited capabilities, and then they would do the job that would best suit them, because to copy and correct those industries that already exist, much more technologically. And I think the task of the state in this situation would not be to wait for the MPs to prepare appropriate laws or the strength of what the electorate is doing, and they are themselves in this situation, but would the government, apart from the right comments, prepare a quality and full bill that would clearly indicate that the creation of a disability enterprise has such, like, preferences. And these preferences would have been maintained, they would have been clearly prescribed by law, and it's very easy for the state to do this because the tax pressure is high enough. And here, when I hear that the bill is responsible for the tax inspection of the performance of control functions, believe me, the tax inspection is like, it's like a grandmother for children, so tax inspection for any entrepreneur, it's scared, it's intimidated, it's threatened all the time. And when it comes to dealing with a politically unfavourable entrepreneur, he is intimidated not by a car crash but by a thorough inspection of special forces, tax inspection, tax police, and so forth. That's why I'd say it's a place to normalize and shake. I think of it as a problem that was seen and presented. And here I think that a joint government would give its observations, or if it comes in the first repeat, in the first or the first reading, to get out on a completely valid law that no one has humiliated, followed, and threatened no one, because in principle it's a very difficult problem to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u53	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u54	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. The honourable people's deputies are, of course, the bill passed by the people's deputies, Suskević, is a social bill. And unlike the previous speech I gave to Andrew School, who strongly condemned this bill, I'm going to ask him to accept it on the first reading, of course, with some warnings that I'm about to stop on. Obviously, he rightly suggested that the functions of the State Tax Administration should not be given and expanded. In addition, the inadequacy of a separate provision in article 20 of the law regarding the resolution of disputes under certain articles of the Code, that is, the limitation of court action. Because in accordance with article 124 of the Constitution, there are no legal relations in Ukraine that are not subject to the jurisdiction of the court. So this situation is subject to elimination. I would also like to draw your attention to at least two articles in this law. This is article 10 of the Fund for Social Protection for Disabled Persons and Children, which is implemented by the Social Protection Fund of Disabled Persons, which is a government body of government within the central executive body of labour and social policy. Why? It says in article 11 that the fund's budget is formed at the expense of the State Budget, charity contributions, voluntary donations and other incomes. I'm in charge of building such a foundation. People with disabilities need such help today. But we have to write all of them into one mechanism to talk about the transparency of using this fund, about not allowing it, using political, other, for another purpose. And I would also like to draw your attention to the increase in the fines, the serious increase in the fines of officials, and the moments that are set out in article 20 of this project, where it is written and proposed. For example, I quote, "the period of time in the case of the fines and the foams provided for in this article is not applicable." Ladies and gentlemen, in no law have we ever applied the rules of non-application. It exists both in criminal acts and around. Are we changing the theory of law at all? I don't think we can do that. In addition, the question is also raised to raise businesses where the average number of employees is less than the standard, and also a serious responsibility. Let's take a look at the boundaries. It's probably going to have to be reduced a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u55	Yes, Leonid Chernowitz, faction of our Ukraine. Aren't you going to perform? You're in. If not, tell them you refuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u56	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Our Ukraine faction, Leonid Chernovetski. I want to tell you that the law passed by Mr. Suškević is noble, and our task is to support this bill in first reading, because many of its provisions are absolutely fair. In general, I would like to point out that not only one national MP should deal with these matters in Parliament. I think we could all come together around his idea of this part. But this, of course, could be helpful to the Cabinet of Ministers today. Unfortunately, we are not the only people with disabilities. We have an underprivileged 90 per cent of the population. And that's the problem, too. Perhaps, though, we could resolve many of the questions of those who are to be helped by the Bible, weak by power. I believe that in this second-reading bill we could deprive disability organizations of VAT payments. This would be the first time we've given them a chance to work properly. And we could very seriously improve this law, and I appeal to all factions to make it really effective and to create benefits for those who today can't count on anything but this kind of assistance. Well, in general, I want to tell you this: in principle, given that most people in Ukraine are deprived of their jobs, and taxes are being strangled not only by people with disabilities, but also by those who create jobs, of course, if this happens in Parliament and we do not adopt laws that would eliminate VAT is the law that I have put in place, and other laws that would enable people with disabilities to work and form a normal budget, and control over budget expenditures, we will soon have non-disabled people only in the Supreme Council, because everyone else is running away from Ukraine to work somewhere. Here. This law therefore requires special attention. Let us try to set forth in it rules that we could then apply to the entire population of Ukraine in order to ensure that everyone lives successfully. And call your neighbors, including the disabled, it's also very important who's listening to our transmission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u57	Yes, Matthews with a motive, please. Motive dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u58	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! Until we understand the use of these tools, I think we will not solve this problem by any law. Today, the 4 per cent we're deducting is one and a half billion bracelets. Think about it. One and a half billion bracelets. We're actually raising 160 million. If we increase the fines, who are we going to put the money on? Again, to those who pay, who again, so to speak, creates these jobs? There was a law that was suggested, so to speak, to reject this system and to understand it. The two committees promised me to hold a round table with the Government to deal with the system in the end. Today's bill in the hall, again, so to speak, the pressure of ideology, the surfing, the disabled -- let's support it, there are no questions. But let's also deal with money, because when we're dealing with specific situations, there are specific people behind them, specific financial flows. And what are such fines, and what are jobs in March, and what are jobs near a domain store, and so on and so forth. All for the disabled, but let us, in terms of logic and common sense, approach this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u59	Jaroslav Suhi, "Trudova Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u60	Thank you. Honorable National MPs. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, "Trouble Ukraine". I would like, first of all, to go to the author of the bill and remind him that in this room and outside this room, it was very difficult, it was difficult and very difficult to erase the standard of employment for people with disabilities. At last we found common ground, at last we understood, at last the executive corps understood what they wanted, and the executive corps adapted to this unusual problem, which was just mentioned by a colleague of Matvienkov. Because, reverend, four percent of the metallurgy, four percent of the high-precise assembly -- what are we talking about? But we have solved this problem. A new step is now being taken: exemption from taxation. Wait, yeah, maybe then get rid of the taxation of those industrial enterprises that create places for people with disabilities? What does it mean to fine a business manager for failing to report to the fund in time? And the last. We have heard so much here that they will all be eliminated in the second reading. I propose that this bill be rejected, not voted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention: we will vote! I'll put it to a vote. Well, there was a motive. I'm asking you not to abuse me! Have you done a report that could still be "motivatives"? I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the resolution of occupational and labour rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. Registration number 4595. Please vote. [[17:22:16]] For 266 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? To rest, the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dzona Valentin Mihajlovich, as part of the National Democratic Party and Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We were, please note, at lunchtime we were looking at, in the morning, more precisely, at the meeting, we were looking at Bill 5476, which received 221 votes. Now, attention has been drawn, please, to the factions of the Labour Ukraine, the Regions, the Social Democrats, the Democratic Initiatives, the People's Government, the People's Democratic Party, the Agrarian Party, the Union, as well as to a group of Centers with a proposal to vote on this issue. So I'm going to put who to the vote. Please note who would like to return to the draft Law of 5476. Please vote. Well, 226 is, I read it to you. There's a vote coming, please. [[17:23:49]] For 236 Please, Victor Pinzenik with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u62	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a law that has already collapsed in Parliament several times. We don't understand what's going on. Vladimir Mikhailovich, Parliament has rejected this law several times. We do. refused to consider it. You re-establish a law that extends the business interests of certain oligarchic structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, more than 226 signatures are not my will. I just had to announce it. Please calm down. Determine by vote. I'm making a proposal for a draft law on registration number 5476 on measures to ensure the continuous operation of the fuel-energy complex. Please vote. [[17:25:00]] For 236 Decision taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian State Service Act, registration number 4231, is being announced for consideration. [[on service restrictions]] Reporter Oleg Zarubinski. Get ready for Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u64	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! The proposed bill touches on a fairly common sphere of human relations, such as giving, receiving gifts, exchanging gifts, and so forth. In everyday life, it's usually a personal matter of one person or another and not subject to any foreign intervention, especially regulation. Indeed, gifts are a widely used form in honoring an employee, encouraging him to make further progress in one area or another. And it's the same thing as friends, colleagues, groups. So it is not a matter of casting a shadow of good tradition but of the overly disturbing situation when virtually every civil servant in our country is under constant attack as a potential subject and subject of illegal activity. I don't open up any Americans, because there's no secret that government officials get gifts like that. The more the boss, the more expensive the presents. Very often these are gifts, not for a person, but for a position that his master will use his national authority to solve matters that are of interest to the donor, but that are not resolved or resolved, or they run into a law that needs to be circumvented. Regrettably, the establishment of the Ukrainian State has been marred by numerous abuses and illegal acts of officials. Not by chance our legislation regarding civil servants has such a clear criminal focus, and the offer of gifts among others takes an honorable place in the Anti-Corruption Act. Under official responsibilities, many government officials are involved in various contacts and activities in the country and abroad. Not rarely, but in certain areas, these contacts are usually accompanied by exchange of souvenirs, gift offerings, and various rewards. Similar practices without proper publicity and legalization may be seen as grounds for unfounded accusations of private interest in matters of service and even suspicion of corruption. The proposed changes to the Ukrainian State Service Act provide an opportunity to avoid these misunderstandings. Because they separate symbolic souvenirs from, I emphasize, valuable gifts whose status is defined as state property and they define a recommendation for use. And now, so there's no twisting, because there's some pros and cons against this bill, and I want to read it, it's very concise. Gifts received by a government official in the course of his duties by legal or natural persons, fellow citizens or foreigners, except for symbolic souvenirs, are Ukraine’s national property. They are accounted for and used, stored in service facilities, including representative premises, or transferred to public museums, galleries, exhibition halls, or other state institutions and organizations in due order. Gifts of special value are transferred to the Treasury of the National Bank of Ukraine, State rewards and other awards received by a public official belong to him personally. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! This is not about discrimination or oppression. The point is that if we're in the first reading, and, and the Committee on Local Governmental Self-Government, which is, here is a profile, has proposed in the first reading to approve this bill. And a bill led by the honourable Mr. Stretovic in the fight against corruption was also proposed in the first reading of the bill to be adopted. In that case, we certainly made our proposals for second reading and identified such controversial points, if you want, in this bill, and what is a symbolic gift. We could actually, in the second reading in preparation, figure it out. And they were able to determine the adequacy, more precisely, of the price equivalent of this gift. It's not some kind of whim, and it's not some kind of nonsense. In normal countries, which we call all, by the way, democratic, it is forbidden to give expensive gifts to government officials. There's an equivalent, or if there's $20 in Slovakia, for example, or in the United States, etc. It seems to me that this practice would allow a significant improvement to be made in the exponential way that a number of our museums, our galleries and service representational facilities say, and at the same time with, indeed, an incorruptible part, a transparent and decent part of our civil servants, to remove this stigma, which unfortunately exists and which unfortunately has some basis for another part of the civil servants. I'm asking you to support me and vote it out in the first reading, regardless of, once again, on some installations, pluses and minuses, and by the second reading together, some of these replicas.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, everything is so obvious and understandable, we can put to the vote until we're civil servants. Yeah, we'll talk about it? Well, please, Carmazin insists. Oh, I'm sorry, from the Committee of Olujko Vitaly Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u66	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Indeed, the bill is of a nature of world experience, and the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government has supported it, and has also agreed with the conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis for its first reading, taking into account further comments made by the legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the position of the committee is proven. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin insists, please. It's written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u68	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Zarubinski's proposal. It can be accepted in the first reading. Only the name of the law has to be changed. Regarding changes to Ukrainian laws regarding receiving gifts at the service or at the place of the gift service, and so forth. And this law is to be distributed to the members of the government, to the members of the President's Administration, to the President himself, read Melnicken, there's a golden ounce brought by Mr. Bodelan, and says take it, I just brought it from England, and here are some very serious expensive things. Next. People's deputies are to be extended, judges are to be extended, to employees governed by the National Bank Act, to employees of the State Tax Administration, the State Property Fund, to the police, to the Security Service, to the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is, in a broad sense, for those who serve as ministers of the State. As for the gifts, I have to write, after the gifts, I address Oleg Zarubinsky. The initiative is good at all kinds of gifts. Because today I'm going to show you institutions where, at the expense of charities, they're supposed to go abroad, and then they're going to take decisions for the benefit of those organizations and those countries that were just invited abroad. Decisions at the State Property Fund are also interesting at the same time. Decisions are taken by the Tax Administration. Now, what will we do with the officials of local self - government? We do have the Service Law in the local authorities. Are the mayors of the city, the deputy mayor, or all the heads of the department, the crow, and so forth, still subject to this law? So let's expand this law. So the idea in Zarubinsky's first reading can be supported, but I want you to remember how we wanted to write down the government and the Prime Minister in the Anti-Corruption Act. And then, unfortunately, our hall didn't support it. That's why there's gonna be a bribe for the sergeant today, and for the Prime Minister, it's nothing. And I remind you that the size is still going to have to be written like, for example, the United States. The richest country in the world has a gift of $20. We don't write anything. Let's write in the bracelets, how much, let's define. But this is going to be a proposal for a second reading. On the first reading, I propose to support Zarubinsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u69	Vladimir Cherniak, please. Nigga, we're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, the question is, of course, interesting, I'd say, a big question. I also support the proposal to accept it in the first reading. In my view, the main honesty of the bill is the introduction into the Ukrainian legislative field of world experience of receiving gifts. The main task of the legislator is to put obstacles in the way of abuse of officials in receiving gifts and converting gifts into bribes. I think we need to change the name of the law -- the law on the limitations of receiving gifts and the impossibility of turning them into bribes. That would be the exact correct name for that novel. Which is suggested here. I support the proposal, which has already been made, that we should distribute the law to all government officials on all branches of government where these birds sit, and on all levels of power, not narrowly, as it was done here in this bill. Among other things, in many lands there are gift museums, even the dictator Saddam Hussein had a gift museum in Baghdad. Here I was in Baghdad, and there was a huge house, a museum, that is, he did not dare to give himself gifts because they were not gifts to him personally. And somehow we don't solve this question. That's why we need to put this in the bill. In my opinion, the Zarubinsky bill should be supported, but work on it in preparation for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u71	What's the motive? Eugene Gorenik with motive, please. Well, from the motive of the Mountain, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u72	Deputies! I'm talking to the author at all. I can predict the fate of this bill in my second reading. I am confident that there will be no proposal from the President, no members of the government, no judges, no officials of local self-government. We have this experience of voting on government corruption. So I'm talking to the author: well, believe me, it's better if you take the first reading, you re-enter these people, then there'll be guarantees, otherwise the law will be completely relaxed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u73	May I have your attention, Your Honor, to vote on the proposal of the Committee for the adoption of a draft law amending the Ukrainian State Service Act. [[on service restrictions]] Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[17:38:25]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Calm down, dear fellows! What's the committee's offer? Calm down! For one more time? I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to re-read the draft law amending the Ukrainian State Service Act. [[on service restrictions]] Registration number 4231. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:39:08]] For 255 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on mandatory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial is being announced for consideration. [[on the distribution of the right of social insurance to student youth]] Hara Vasil Georgievovich has the floor for the report. Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, the substance of the legislative proposal can be provisionally divided into two parts. The first part is about the social insurance of our student youth, and I wrote this proposal at the request of the student trade unions and the Central Committee of the Educational and Scientific Union because our young students are not covered by insurance: maternity benefit, sanatorium treatment, and their health, you know, is not good. And the second part is that some shortcomings have been identified because of some of the experience of the Fund. And there are also three legislative proposals: the first in this section is the payment of sick leave for insured persons to join the rehabilitation unit of sanatoriums. So it turns out that if a person gets a heart attack, is being treated in a hospital, they give him a sanatorium trip, he's going to be treated, and his family is without a means of living. Second sentence: Communion benefits: hospital, child care, maternity benefit. If a person is working together and receives a salary, he/she pays his/her contributions but does not receive benefits from that part of his/her salary. And the third part of the bill is the payment by the fund of financial security in enterprises, organizations, institutions that have not been paid for more than a month for various reasons: for example, the lack of funds in the account, the arrest of an account, the bankruptcy of an enterprise and so on. The Fund's task is to protect socially those who work in an enterprise that is unable to pay for these funds for more than a month. There are comments on the bill, but in general it is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Scientific and Expert Office, which supports its adoption on first reading. Please, our committee has considered this issue and also requests you to support the adoption of this bill on first reading. That's all right, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the position of the committee is proven. You have the contents of the document. Do we need to discuss it? Jaroslav Suhi, please. One minute. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I've actually signed up for a lot of drafts, but I always go to a meeting with the chairman to save time. But in view of the fact that we have a strange picture. The same people's deputies, they're on the stand, the same MPs are talking about all the bills. I fear that our electorate may have the wrong impression of the mental capacity of other Ukrainian national deputies or of their ability to express their thoughts clearly and clearly. So I'm on this rostrum right now and the first thing I want to say is, I want to pay attention to those national deputies of Ukraine and those factions who, for reasons and without reason, blocked their time in the session of the Supreme Council, crawled here, breaking microphones, in the stands. Today we have this situation. Listen carefully. This is Bill 3227. A socially important bill aimed at raising the social status of our future youth has been awaiting its entry into the hall since March 2003. The law on the social status of investigators, a colleague of Carmazin, also waited a year for his entry into the session hall. I mean, it's very expensive for us, very high price, to pay for such reckless treatment of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We pay by our authority once. And secondly, we're forced to drive the ship and quickly, quickly adopt social-significant bills. Bill 3227 provides two positive points that will enable us to improve the quality of life of our citizens. First. The list of persons subject to compulsory social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment includes students, students, students, extracurriculars. assistants, interns, clinics, and other young citizens who are studying. And the second. We also get the opportunity to make insurance payments directly from the Social Insurance Fund in case the insurer can't make them for more than a month because there's no money in the bank account, or if that account is arrested. Thus, we greatly strengthen the social protection of insured persons. Of course, there are some warnings about this bill. All of these can be taken into account in preparing for the second reading. I propose to support Bill 3227 by voting on it as a basis in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u77	Igor Shurma has never performed before, please. Let's switch turns.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u78	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues! This bill will allow students' youth to be covered by social insurance, to settle debts for insured persons from social insurance payments, to determine the rights to material security for insured persons who work for compatibility, to change the conditions and standards for granting temporary disability assistance to persons who are sent to rehabilitate in the sanatorium. Social insurance is the most perfect social protection mechanism in the market economy. Social insurance, built on one principle, exists in virtually all countries of the world. At the same time, every country’s social insurance is not fixed, but it develops according to the needs of time. The bill’s proposed changes in the end account should create more reliable social protection and improve the status of the insured. In particular, they deserve attention and support for such provisions of the bill regarding the amendment of articles of the law in force. Article 35. Providing an insured person, who is sent in time for temporary disability treatment, throughout his stay at a sanatorium, taking into account time to go to a sanatorium and back. Article 50, part one, providing assistance for a different workplace, except in the event of temporary disability, including care for a sick child and pregnancy and childbirth. Article 50 is supplemented by part four, the right of insured persons to receive financial security if their employers do not have the funds to do so. Article 51, part one, the basis for providing assistance elsewhere, except for the main one. However, the proposal to extend social insurance coverage with appropriate contributions and payments to students and others who are studying in higher education institutions is denied. This is contrary to world practice and one of the basic principles of social insurance, which is that there is a fear of loss of earnings. Students who receive a scholarship do not lose it during illness. With regard to the treatment of young people, the problem must be solved by educational institutions and, in the long run, by the introduction of health insurance that covers family members. The faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine proposes to support the bill in part of the amendments to articles 35, 50 and 51, except those that do not apply to students and other learners. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u79	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u80	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, before I say under this bill, I express my regret that we have not found a few deputies who would be able to add votes in order to pass an anti-corruption law amending the public service of Zarubinsky's colleague. So if we are already doing this in all things, it is possible that Vladimir Mikhailovich should still be put to the vote today. Today, a purely lobbyist law, just as normal to balance, is adopted by the anti-corruption law of Zarubinsky. That would be normal. Now it's about this law. I agree with what my colleague Suhi said, I rightly said that this law had been going on for a year and a half until we brought it here, and that the need to introduce it was completely understood, because we discussed the situation of young people in Ukraine. And what we've seen, we've had parliamentary hearings, and it's been observed that the disease and the spread of various diseases are among young people, and young people are reluctant and are having babies, and it's very sick, and that's why it's the disease of blood, the urethra system, the blood circulation, the endocrine system. And that's why we had to do it. As it should be in the student's budget institutions, there should be a higher education facility. But. But the question is, what about the money? The funding, the author of the national MP Hara, was quite correct in using the figure of 18.2 million dollars and the contributions of insured persons of 1.8 million dollars. 18.2 is the state budget. And that's 20 million dollars. These figures are fully supported by the government alone, and for some reason the Committee on Maternal and Childhood Protection thinks that these are huge costs for the state. It's the cost to the state of small compared to what we then have to treat these people. And what we then have a sick progeny, which would then have to be treated again, is the monetary costs that we have to go to and stop doing this work, to be afraid of that. So I don't understand why people from neighboring factions here have been offering, and sometimes they have all the TV and they're in favor of social protection, and they're controlling the whole government, and they're afraid to spend 18-20 million dollars today, and it's not a one-minute thing to spend. This is much less than bribes take place in one day in the government of Ukraine. That's a lot less. So I would suggest that I accept both in the first and the second readings. Hara worked hard on this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, with a motive, please, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u82	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that it is the government that does not support this bill. Because if you look at the official submission under the signature of the Deputy Prime Minister of Tobacco, it says that it is virtually impossible to implement the proposals made. Therefore, we certainly support the need to distribute and provide additional payments in connection with the loss of work for young students. But we need to work in that direction so that all students, without exception, have the opportunity to receive these payments. Because contractors, for example, don't get scholarships. So that these amounts won't get killed later on in the amount of the contract. A lot of students get a scholarship based on success. Thus, if she does not receive scholarships, she will be deprived of expenses or assistance in connection with temporary loss of employment. So these points need to be worked out, and the parliamentary majority need to work with the government of Yanukovic so that he can also support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial. [[on the distribution of the right of social insurance to student youth]] Registration number 3227. [[17:52:39]] For three hundred Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the timely payment of wages is being announced for consideration. Registration numbers 4241-1, reporter - Secretary of the Committee on Social Policy and Work Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich. The next report will be by Alla Alexandrovna Alexandrovska. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u84	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! At the last meeting of the National Council of Social Partnerships, whose members are the national deputies of Ukraine, Miko, Volinec, Leipzig, and others, the figure was called the reduction in debt from wages. Since the beginning of the year, debt has decreased by 64 million. A bracelet, which is 3.6 percent, seems to be about some kind of debt reduction dynamic. But the average amount of debt per employee has increased by 41 bracelets, that's the first. And secondly, for January/March, the debt for the work had already been 282 million. Money plus old debts, and we have 762 million in January/March. Debt money. So we're very slowly paying off old debts and very confidently producing new ones. And neither the various calls from the high offices nor the administrative, criminal proceedings against those who are guilty of indebtedness today are effective. By the way, four months earlier, more than six thousand of these people had been subjected to administrative or criminal measures. Moreover, I would like to remind the distinguished Ukrainian people's deputies that the Ukrainian Orthodox Church has recently declared not paying wages to be a serious, serious sin. But it is similar that neither God nor article 43 of the Constitution nor the Ukrainian Law on Paying for Work are afraid of the vast majority of those leaders, at least out of the 136 thousand. Industrial enterprises that not only don't pay wages, but don't count a penny into the Pension Fund. What's the point? We need to, and we've talked to you about this in the session room not once, and laws like this have been passed, we need to change the system of charging and paying wages. By the way, this is the approach found in the concept of reforming the pay system approved by the Ukrainian Presidential Decree at the end of 2001. Bills 4241 and 4241-1 - there is no fundamental difference between them, just my bill, just mine was filed a few months earlier. [[I'm the author of the bill and the committee.]] The two bills provide for two novelists: the first -- that the timeliness of payment of the salary cannot be set depending on the other payments and their turnover, first; and the second -- the recommitment of the debtor's property to the court's decision to repay the debt of state-owned enterprises and households, whose statutory funds account for at least 25 per cent of the remuneration and other payments. The chief scientific and expert office, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in their conclusions, generally supports the bill. And I'm making an offer to the session room: and Bill 4241, and 4241-1 to accept as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u85	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovna Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u86	Bill No. 4241-1, proposed by Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko and I, proposes that all employees be paid as a matter of priority. In the bill, it is also proposed that the property of enterprises be authorized in the case of payment courts: wages, maintenance, compensation in the event of loss of health and other cases. That is, payments made by the State executive service. This bill is addressing the very serious problem of non-payment of wages, which my colleague has just mentioned today. And I understand that you yourself know that hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens are now listening very carefully to the broadcast, because, in fact, living is no longer possible, people are working, and they are not getting what they earn. I just want to clarify some numbers. As of the first May of this year, the unpaid salary in Ukraine is one billion 733 million. At the same time, another 411 million unpaid wages are to be paid here, which people probably will no longer be able to obtain, because this amount relates to those enterprises that have ceased to exist or are now in bankruptcy proceedings. I also want to inform you of another interesting moment. In this room, we have heard many times that we have Ukraine now experiencing economic recovery, prosperity, etc. etc. I want to tell you that it is only for January-March this year that the unpaid salary is 281 million. This is only from January to March of this year. The biggest non-remuneration debt is in the Donetsk region. To date, Donetskhani is the largest industrial centre in Ukraine, and the Donetsk workers have not received 537 million bracelets. And only three months this year did they get 37 million. 31 per cent of total debt in Ukraine is the percentage of unpaid wages in the Donetsk region. The region of Montenegro, the smallest in Ukraine, but this is where 13 million people didn't get their wages, and this year on. More than three million wages have not been paid. 31 per cent of the salary debt in the Chernovets region is the debt that arose this year. What is the economic recovery? 18 per cent of the debt was incurred in Lviv region, and 29 per cent of the debt was incurred in Ivano-Frankovsk. In my hometown of Harikov, 62 million wages, of which 16 million is three months this year. What's the rise in the economy, what's the bloom if our people sit without pay? I'm reminding you that it's those people who turn off the lights, they're driving them out of their apartments. I understand that we must vote on this law, and I am sure that you will support me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u87	Yes, thank you, dear colleagues. Let us go to the table of names of the national deputies who have been enrolled, and explain. Two in, two in. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Tamara Proscorat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u88	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! It's a shame that we're just looking at this bill right now, and we should have looked at it before New Year's. And it was necessary to look at the government's review and report here, because the two billion and 200 million debts that are set today, and not all the amounts that are set, these are colossal figures, they show that the Yanukovich government is “hunting the void”. By the way, the council's justice had to be said that other governments also had debt and this should be noted. Absolutely all governments were in debt. Yes, after Odessa, there was a colossal base of recreation that was spent on building $8 million. What do you think? She's gone into community property. Thousands of employees have lawsuits, satisfied lawsuits, and no payment. Well, thank God, Minister of Transportation of Kirp at the expense of other sectors is looking for money to settle with people. So was this commitment made by the Minister of Transport? So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to you that you accept these two bills, and I would like to thank the people's deputies Sukhoma and Alexandrovska for their suggestions. But I want to focus on being complex and working, these laws, we need to make changes, and in this law, and in this law, and in the law on implementing implementation, and on restoring the ability of the borrower or recognizing his bankruptcy. Because the Suhigo bill proposes to amend and abolish the moratorium on forced alienation of property of state-owned enterprises and households, with at least 25 percent of statutory funds. I'm paying attention, I'm paying attention to the government, it's a very serious decision. If we accept it, we need to ensure transparency then the realisation of this property. These are very serious decisions that exist. But on the other hand, we also have no moral right to pay the wages. So I would like, on second reading, to amend the Labour Code, the Labour Pay Act, article 24, the Moratorium, what I have already said, into the Enforcement Act, and thus ensure the complexity of not assigning the government what is proposed by Jaroslav Suhi to the government to introduce legislation. No, we ourselves can make amendments to the law in the second reading and adopt them. I ask you to support and vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u89	Tamara Proscuratov, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Prepare Pinzenik instead of Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u90	The faction believes that the bills and their justification are almost identical and registered at two weeks apart. Indeed, the worker’s right to receive a reward for his work must be placed above all other conditions and interests. This would be in line with both international law and the Constitution, and eventually with the concept of further pay reform. The main scientific and expert office, however, notes that, by introducing the rules for the priority payment of wages before all other payments, it is also necessary to make appropriate changes to article 97 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. So the bill is to be duly completed. In amending Ukraine's Pay for Work Act, you should limit yourself to the changes in article 15 of the Act, as in Bill 4241-1. With regard to the second part of the bill to cancel the moratorium, first of all alimony is not part of the company's funds, but it's directly from the employee's salary, so the word alimony, we think, should be excluded from the text. It's different. Damage to the health and life of citizens is not covered by the concept of “wage. ” Therefore, this paragraph contradicts the title of the bill. It is not difficult to resolve by widening the title of the law itself, such as the timely payment of wages to others who are eligible to the employee. We believe that both bills should be based on the comments made and the suggestions made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u91	Yes, Victor Pinzenik has a word for Vladimir Cherniak. Prepare Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! We are considering a simple law and would appear to be an obvious law. But it's not as obvious as it seems. A few years ago, the Kyiv company, which had little debt, was ordered to produce an expert product for several million dollars. She refused them because it could not perform them. Reason: All the money that would come from this company was written down in order of order of payment or so - called file. In other words, this is a situation in which the business has stumbled and for it the only way out is to get it. You remember the bartering of the shadow economy. Why did I mention that? Because thanks to five years of efforts in Ukraine, we have been able to introduce a perfectly normal civilized standard for businesses, the right of the enterprise to determine the order of payments on its own. By this law, you're making payments in a row, regardless of whether it's pay or pay in the first place. The next satellite of this decision is the restoration of the file and the removal of the enterprise’s right to manage its own funds. Think of the consequences five years ago. The second thing from the economic point of view is that it's completely wrong to split payments into wages and other payments. Please tell me, is it not the salary of a doctor, a teacher, a military financial security that is required to pay the budget? Is it not the pensioner's pension? Is it not the wages of coal miners? In terms of the economy, it doesn't matter whether it's pay or any other. Therefore, my request, fellow believers, seems to be an obvious law. But in part of the order of payments, I ask you not to support it. With regard to the rate of cancellation of the moratorium on the sale of property to ensure that the payment of wages is met, this rule is correct and should be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u93	Thank you. Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u94	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, when we look at this bill, we want to draw everyone's attention to what we've been hearing for more than 10 years, how we've been plagued, how the President's concern is that we have a debt on our payroll. And to carry out this care, the Prime Minister and the government are calling in quarterly, monthly different masses, huge numbers of officials who report that there is almost no debt in the budget area. And at the same time, people who make money that fills the budget all the time have huge debts. It turns out that billions of debt in production is not a national problem. The problem is, in the first place, to collect taxes and pay them back to those who collected them. Producers have to make money silently, and the government gives it to officials first. Even in Equatorial Africa, collect bananas, get the money. And I'm surprised why today's leaders are handcuffed, is the manager guilty of being in debt on wages? If he didn't have that tax money in his pocket, he'd pay his salary. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, this is not the first time we've passed a bill on pay lines. And here Victor Mikhailovich said that payment must be made in turn, because doctors will suffer, and others will suffer. Yes. But why do we have such a disorder in the law? Perhaps we should adopt a law, not about order of payments, but about order in the state? Because it can be more humiliating than a person’s making money, and it can be borrowed from a school, a debtier in front of a kindergarten, in front of utilities, and finally in front of his health, for there is nothing for a person to buy medicine for treatment. Or should we make sure that we pay everyone a minimum of living and then think about what the pay schedule is? So I suggest we set up a first-time payout for those who create material goods and then for those who receive money. Then there will be order in the state, and then we will know that a person who cannot exist today without a minimum of living cannot, under the Constitution, fail to receive a salary. And so I think in the second reading we're going to add these mandatory points to our law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u95	Thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues, with a motive, I'll give one by one of the factions. So make up your mind. Well, what you signed up for. Who's going to be the faction, determined by motive? Landik, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, I would also like to point out to the chairman that we're considering the issue and we're tying it together, that there's no unpaid salary, no money, we're not paying, and the President isn't like that, and the Prime Minister isn't. But we forget the second one. Let's take a look at this. Each company pays its wages, and taxes are paid for its wages. These taxes continue to be the life of the entire nation. It's impossible to give it first or second. All the same, every enterprise pays a salary first, but it does pay. And let's share it, or we just did politics today, everybody's doing debt here, and we owe it all. You don't have to do this! And Pinzenik said it right, and I'm just supporting him -- don't, let's split these articles! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u97	Yes, we'll vote. Dear colleagues, I repeat, it raises half the frequency of yours. You'll know who you've got. Well, what does it matter? It's important. Yes, please, Kirilenko with a motive. Come on, Nigger. It's a black microphone. Cherniak's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, I would like to place an emphasis that should be found in this law. The non-payment of wages should be treated as a crime punishable by administrative, financial, and criminal penalties. As long as it doesn't, there's going to be this bond of default, debt and everything. I didn't hear anything so that no head of state or private enterprise would be put in jail for not paying their wages. And until we do, the question will not be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, we will be determined. Once again, I stress the committee’s proposal: The committee proposes that both bills be adopted as a basis for complementing each other and then uniting each other in the process. That's the position of the committee, I'm just reminding you. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure timely payment of wages is put to the vote. Registration number 4241. [[18:14:01]] For 283 It is based on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure timely payment of wages. Registration number 4241-1. [[18:14:30.]] For 249 So, once again, we did the committee's will and adopted both of these bills because they complement each other. There's a bill on youth. . About the youth labour force, registration number 3074. Reported the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, Ryabik Vladimir Leonidovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u100	Dear National Deputies! One of the ways of implementing youth policy in Ukraine and at the same time the problem is to address youth employment issues, to promote secondary employment for students and students in the free time, to expand career orientation opportunities, to create additional opportunities for meaningful rest. The affected issue may be partially resolved by the organization and expansion of the youth workforce. Youth labor teams are involved in construction, repair, cargo, and agricultural work, in the care and well - being of the territory, in the care of health camps, and in the care of medical plants. Today, every year, the number of young people involved in the labor force is increasing. If in 1999 there were 125,000 people, according to Minsimiyamyoung, about 380,000 people in the youth workforce were already involved in 2002, about 500,000 young people were working in the youth labour force in 2003. Youth labor teams are financed today by the state budget and local budgets. and sponsors, contributions from youth labour groups, personal contributions. Youth labour groups are formed with the participation of youth labour centres, youth social organizations, and student - and student - youth self - government bodies. At the same time, there is currently no legal framework in Ukraine that directly regulates the creation of governance, activities and funding of youth labour units. The bill you have proposed is designed to implement the rights and social guarantees of young people. The project helps to ensure secondary employment of students from higher, secondary and secondary technical institutions, improve material status, provide conditions for professional experience, organize meaningful leisure, self-implementation and self-implementation. The expected result of the bill is an increase in the number of jobs for young people. The development of youth labour groups also contributes to the prevention of negative phenomena in the youth environment. The bill was discussed on committees: the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. He discussed the bill at his meeting and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. The Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport, and Tourism unanimously supported the proposed bill. Today, many suggestions, comments, and additions have been made to the bill. So we ask you to support this bill in the first reading, in order to further develop, complement, perhaps make it more meaningful and weighty. But there is no doubt that this bill needs our young, first and foremost students. So you're asked to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u101	Thank you. Let's vote. Puzakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u102	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština This bill should help ensure the employment of students in a permanent form of education, both in higher and secondary schools, during summer holidays. Of course, it will be a material stimulus, for today about 70 percent of students learn on a paid basis. And if this is not the case, for a future expert, they must create conditions of work where life and professional experience can be gained, where self - realization and self - development can take place. In Soviet times this form of work was well established. Whole campuses were built and furnished, where young people worked and rested. Many of them today would like to return that time to their children. It is now painful for us to talk about serious crimes committed by minors and young people that drug and alcohol have lost the souls of young people. No, it's not. They were lost by those for whom there is nothing but profit. Those who, in the form of reforms, destroy the country and its people. Of course, this law must be passed, but it will only be for a branch before the election campaign. There is no money available for this in any local budget. For example, in Kirovograd in the past year, 10,000 dollars were laid, and today there is not a single penny. And as such, there are no youth labor teams in the area at all. Of course, article 6 of the bill speaks of a mixed system of funding for youth labour groups, both from the State Budget and from local budgets. But it won't and it won't. Tell me, what kind of owner is going to fund the work of youth labor teams, which institutions, organizations or businesses, with the debt that we've just been talking about on salary before our employees, will support the youth labour force? Already 7 million of our fellow countrymen have become slaves abroad, so why are we waiting? Thus, for good reason, 40 percent of young people do not want to live in their own country, where human dignity and dignity are demeaned at every turn. And this bill doesn't exactly fit today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u103	Carmazine. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u104	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Regrettably, the time passed when I was in the youth force, and then those who were in those groups were expanded, and there were certainly two difficult boys who were then given to us by the militia, who were serving on the issues of minors, or the Commission on the Rights of Minors. And we were supposed to provide him with a salary and so on. And if you look at the legal aspect of this problem, this bill, you know, you have the right to work, you could write about the labour force of the unemployed in Ukraine, as proposed by the national deputy of Zagreb. And I totally agree with him. This bill would be better, better because the unemployed in the state of those who have not yet been counted are more than 10 percent. And that's serious. And I've been looking for a long time for the point of this law. He read the expert opinions, read the law itself. It is, by the way, very tiny — eight articles, including the Final Position. The essence of this law, as the heart of Kochaya, is found in article 6 of "Financing Youth Labour Teams." The Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the approval of the National Budget of Ukraine, provides for funds to secure the activities of youth labour units, which are the responsibility of a specially authorized central executive body. As well as local self - government agencies, the approval of local budgets provides for the cost of ensuring the activities of youth labor groups. That was the corresponding second part, and that was the third part. That's the point. The same article states that the funds received by the founders for the creation of youth labour units and for the employment of young workers are not taxed or excluded from the income of the state or local budgets. Next. is offered for pupils and students of the state’s eye form during the year to benefit from compulsory government insurance for members of the youth labour force. The corresponding costs are provided in the State Budget by a single line, and the order in which the specified benefits are granted is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please tell me, is there any calculation of this law? There's no calculation. Well, there's no calculation. It's a good thing when you don't have to pay the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u105	The word is given by the national deputy of Cherniak behind him, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u106	Dear National Deputies! In my day, I was an active member of the student labour force, when I was a student, a graduate student, I traveled to Ukraine, Tumensk, Yakutia, there was no law, it was probably harder for us. I think this attempt to bring this work into the legislative field probably makes sense. It's, in addition to everything else, labor training. Deputy Carmazin said he'd been looking for the essence of the law for a long time, but he did find it. If you can find the essence of the law, you should not adopt it. The law must be so that there is no substance in it that it is easier to accept. So the whole point of this law is to finance. The main novelty of the law is funding. Allocation of special funds, a special fund that helps organize the matter. I think it's worth supporting, except for one moment, the labor force exists to make money. And we made, I remember, some good money. After six months or even a year, I was able to live in Kiev, earning money in the troops. So I don't think we should just give this money away. At the very least, it can be given as a loan. And when they make money, they return it, so, from the budget, the loan is impossible, you can take it to the bank. But you can create some kind of fund that you can put that money back into. So you have to think about how to do that in order to help young people with this movement, but not to use the budget through a fund that might not use these funds purposefully and embezzle them. This financial issue is a matter of great importance. And in the process of preparing for second reading, I think we should write it more clearly and clearly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u107	Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u108	Dear radio listeners, distinguished colleagues. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. You know, the logical question arises. Earlier in the Soviet era, there were labor teams because 100 percent of the students were on a budget basis, including different types of the population, from different families, but no one was paid at least official education. Now in Ukraine, 70 percent of students are not fiscal students, so students pay for themselves to learn. So, interestingly, what are the labor teams to go to, Saudi Arabia or the United Arab Emirates to where they have to go to make the amount they spend daily? Take a look at the cars that students visit at a university. And that's not bad, because the student has to be provided. Next, where do you want to go? Where is the shortage of labor in Ukraine? Where are the jobs that young people can provide for these jobs and student groups? First of all, 7 million young people of all ages have left Ukraine because there is no work for them. Their existing authority has thrown them overboard in the Ukrainian state. And here's another one, another one called "work force" to put more than one in your pocket, under a nice necklace to say, "young people want to work." And we just quietly want to organize it and make a little money on it. What's wrong with that? It's all bad. In fact, everything is bad. Because young people want to make money, they will find work in an extracurricular time. If he's a qualified young man, he'll go to work. Do we have assistants in the Supreme Council or do many students work? That's enough. And they are united in some kind of labor force? There is no need to cool it down and turn it into a problem of hiring two dozen officials who will take care of these labor groups. That's it. That's what this bill is for. Nothing else. That's why I call you. Who has nostalgia in front of those student teams we used to go to, by the way, I also went to these student groups. And I don't remember the way we worked as we rested, how nice it was to spend time there. But now it's a very different situation. It is not nostalgia that governs you in the past, but common sense and vision of the future. There's no need to create a watchtower for officials. We need to create jobs for student youth who will finish higher education. She needs to be employed, not to do anything to get her to go abroad and work there. We don't have to be right, a state being an outflow for........................................................................................................ We have to provide self-sustaining workforces, workforces here. Students are to remain in Ukraine, and there is no need for her to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u109	With the motive of voting, the Polit from the place microphone. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u110	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I am representing a special committee and I represent an organization that already has experience with the creation of employment units. And deeply convinced of the need to introduce this unique, socially important form of youth policy. It should be noted that the bill is based on a specific mechanism for the organization of student teams. It takes into account the social insurance of members of the labour force, defines a mixed system of funding from public and local budgets, as well as from additional non-State sources. However, the student team initiative is already building on a solid legislative framework. The very possibility of creating youth labour units, the principles of their formation and activities are already set forth in many laws. Therefore, in order to avoid duplication and contradiction in legislative work, a careful comparison of those closely related to the content of laws should be made with a view to correcting possible legislative repetitions and other undesirable cases. I think we need to finalize this law, but on first reading it needs to be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u111	I'm voting on the adoption as the basis for the draft Youth Employment Act. Registration number 3074. Please vote. [[18:31:39]] For 226 The Law was adopted in the first reading. There is a bill on the introduction of a supplement to the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax. [[on the transfer of rural social infrastructure]] A member of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, reports. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Chief, we are now considering a bill that provides for exemption from taxation of transactions from the free transfer of social infrastructure objects to municipal property or directly to the balance of the relevant local council. What is our situation? In fact, all objects of social infrastructure that have been built for years by collective farms or state enterprises, not only in villages but also in the city, are now transferred to the balance of municipal services or village councils. And for this object, built at the expense of the people, 20 percent of the value added tax should be paid. It's not within any framework. That's why my bill and Sergei Teryochina, the second bill, were passed. As they complement each other, we worked together on the committee. This bill you have, it takes into account absolutely all the nuances of free transfer without paying taxes on added value to boards of local or municipal services of all social infrastructures of those objects that can go: preschool, secondary or secondary education, children's music schools, health care facilities, sports halls, playgrounds, stadiums, children's rest camps, clubs and cultural buildings, libraries, library collectors, housing and utility facilities, fire depots and firefighting techniques. I. The committee's decision: to support in the first reading or on the basis and in general. It's a little bill. I very much ask the honourable national deputies to support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u113	Thank you, sit down, Catherine Timothy. Is there a need to discuss? Slippery.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u114	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština It takes courage to say that it is the reform of the agricultural sector that we have today that has led to the total destruction of the social sphere in the country. We have no courage to give up the services of reformers in the agrarian sector who have landed Ukraine to the very edge, and today, without blinking and with an eye, they are issuing new recommendations. The village has been thrown into the abyss today, and the state has lost half of its national wealth. And it does not calm down the thought: What will this state be in the vast future? And the authorities are shamelessly demonstrating peace, public peace in the face of complete destruction and impoverishment. In Ukrainian history, there has not yet been such a rightful streak that it would create its wealth by stretching statehood, by plundering national wealth, by the sheath that it built nothing but offices and palaces, and by its example a corrupt state. To explain why 335 Ukrainian villages have been abandoned in the last five years, three thousand preschool villages, 487 district hospitals have been closed down, about four thousand field homes, and there are virtually no proper transport connections. In the absence of schools, 43 percent of rural children are unable to continue in the tenth and eleventh classes. In rural areas there are now fewer than a quarter of domestic service enterprises, and the number of retail businesses is reduced to impossible. In short, the country today is a hopeless, terrible social situation. When the social sphere in the countryside — a rare case — is still preserved, it does not need to be passed on to anyone. For example, everyone knows the name of the head of the KSP "Niva" of the city of Novokrainka Kirovograd district of Ogir Vladimir Ivanovich. Although he has been temporarily cleaned up with help from above, he will certainly take his place. The social sphere of the village was to maintain the SPC and to keep it in good shape. The bill compassionately states that peasants are losing about 47 percent of the available social objects, as well as failure to implement the President’s commission to resolve the settlement of the village’s compensation of over one billion 200 million dollars of their own expenses incurred in the construction of the social sphere. What are the statistics on these objects? The president probably doesn't know that this area is completely destroyed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u115	Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u116	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Mr. Chairman, Adam Ivanovich, I would like to make an official statement that, by the vote of Odaynik in the previous vote, where 226 was voted "in favour" thus minus one vote that he has given you a written statement that he has not voted on it, the previous Act on the Labour Forces, please declare not accepted in the first reading. And continue to decide the principles with him. I said on the basis of what a foreign card was voted on, our card was voted on. As far as now is concerned, a law that deals with value added tax. Well, if you're about to get a card and you're just going to steal and vote, you're going to ask, on what grounds? So please, let's treat this with tolerance. With regard to the cancellation of VAT, the introduction of additions to article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax. It is absolutely right that no tax may be imposed on a free transfer operation to state property or municipal property of rural communities, towns, cities or their common property of all forms of property that were on the tax payer’s balance sheet and transferred to another tax balance. Taxation of VAT is harmful in this case. Moreover, I would like the authors of this bill, the people who join the People's Agrarian Party, to come out of most of them with the entire Ukrainian people. Because a village today with a minority, unfortunately. It's being destroyed. We support you in this bill, although you have today supported not entirely legally good and as a result of economic bills that will eventually hit the village. But at the same time, we will support you in these matters. And I think that's acceptable in both the first reading and the second reading, because there's no harm in that, except for the benefit. And besides, the VAT, as a corrupt tax, has to be completely destroyed. It's absolutely obvious to everyone. And so just to get him out of this, it's, let's say, a little bit of what we can do for our village. The village needs to do much more powerful things, but it takes political will. And unfortunately, the political will and the person you support in the government, and that government is gone. And the budget of this political will is not written down either, because you have to return 7.5 billion more, then you can save the village, not talk about rescue. Thank you. Please vote. You could have both the first and the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u117	Please, Nigger. After him, Mastermaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u118	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! What is the nerve of this law? In modern conditions, when a former farm passes over to a rural council club, it pays 20 percent of VAT. This is economic absurdity. We have a lot of absurdity in the economy, I would say, the economy of absurdity, particularly in terms of VAT. That's it. It is suggested that this absurdity be eliminated by handing over an object in the social sphere, a former collapse, to the village council and not to pay VAT. This is what is suggested by a clear, clear, constructive question. I think we need to support both the first and the second reading of the bill. This will help to preserve and develop the social structure of the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u119	Thank you, please, Master. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u120	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of "Regions of Ukraine", Žmerinski constituency. Dear colleagues! In keeping with this law, there is nothing to argue about. I would like to remind again of the proposal of my and the People's Deputies Pecklesenko and Matvienkov to improve the work of the Supreme Council. Look what's happening today. We registered our proposal for a regulation, or record it for a performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u121	Volodymyr Yakovich, please, on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u122	And today, we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u123	Please, by subject. I'm asking for the subject of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u124	And I'll ask you. We have some communication today with the same deputies. Today you are in the Supreme Council at the Conciliation Council, we have considered this proposal and I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to put our decision to the vote tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u125	Let's go through the profile committee first. Yes, I'm voting for adoption in the first reading of the law on the addition to the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax on the Transfer of Rural Social Infrastructure Objects, registration number - 5009-1. [[18:43:51]] For 346 It was an offer to accept it as a law. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a whole as a law. [[18:44:13]] For 337 The law is passed. is subject to the draft law amending the Ukrainian Housing Code on housing for war invalids, 3,421 registration numbers. Please, Grachev Oleg Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u126	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow MPs. It is known how much our State owed to the people with disabilities of the Great Homeland War. And you may remember, last year, in the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantees of Their Social Protection, we provided that housing for persons with disabilities of war and related persons is provided within two years, that is, out of line. At the same time, according to article 45 of the Housing Code, housing is given to those persons first, i.e. the conflict between the Housing Code and the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the guarantees of their social protection. It would seem a moment so formal, so easy to fix. However, from their own experience in Kiev, citizens can say that, because of such conflict, many persons with disabilities of war are either unknowingly or willfully, but refuse to solve the housing problem. Therefore, the current Housing Code is amended, from article 45, where priority is given to housing, to the exclusion of persons with disabilities of war, and is included in article 46, where emergency housing is provided. Thus, both in the law and in the Housing Code, everything will be agreed upon. Well, today you and I have adopted on first reading a new edition of the Housing Code, and that will also be taken into account in the form of an amendment. That's exactly all the change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u127	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, do you understand? I think we can vote. It's a procedure boner, and we're going to be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u128	The National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine, Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you know the Rules as well as anyone. Does the Rules allow for a specific consideration of the bill if it is said today that it was adopted in the first reading of the Housing Code? To what Housing Code do we try to make changes? To a new one or an old one? If a new amendment is made to the second reading, the committee takes this into account without any difficulty, resulting in a new law. We are now amending the old Soviet Housing Code, which has absolutely no prospect of existence. I don't think this bill should be put to the vote right now, especially since this is contrary to the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u129	Thank you. But it is unfortunate that you, as they say, are a national MP with experience and do not know when the laws are coming into force. Today, KZOT is active. We accepted with you in the first reading. He still needs to be accepted as a whole, and the President still needs to sign it, and then he'll be the law. Then we will have the right to make changes to him as a law. At present, another law is in force. I am voting for amendments to the Ukrainian Housing Code regarding housing for war invalids. In the first reading. Registration number 3421. Please vote. [[18:48:44]] For-300 It was an offer to accept immediately and in general. I'm betting on the vote to pass as a law. Please vote. [[18:49:06]] For 322 The law is passed. The question is, the draft Law on Grapes and Wine. It's quite an interesting bill. We have two numbers here: 2028 and 2028-1. Reported to the first deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kalinchuk Vasil Antonovich. Both from the committee and as the author. Yes, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u130	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, the Ukrainian Vine and Wine Law Project, aimed at regulating legal relations both in the field of grape cultivation and in the production of wine and other wine products. A special need is for the adoption of this Law in view of the fact that Ukraine is directing its efforts to enter the civilized market for European cooperation and the World Trade Organization. As a result, our country's grapes production should be transformed into an effective sector of the modern world market by laws that are adapted to the legislation of this market, starting with terminology and completing the parameters of quality and marketing. Today, the important function of our nation is not only to support its own producer, but also to establish effective control of both raw materials and their processing, non-production and falsified wine production. The purpose and purpose of the adoption of the law are reflected in the explanatory note. I just wanted to point out that many countries’ legislators accidentally see only grape wines as an object of State protection against criminal offenses to their quality from all kinds of food and alcoholic beverages. State control in wine production should be carried out at all stages of production, starting with raw materials and ending with commercial implementation. The current legislation does not contain specific legal rules for the liability of forging wine. The last normative act on this issue, I would like to emphasize, was the Order of the People's Commissioners of the Ukrainian RSR of November 25, 1921, "To be held responsible for violating the Order on the sale of wines." The bill, registration number 2028, lays down requirements for the cultivation of grapes. Its quality from planters to maintaining vineyards is determined by the concept of wine, its nature, and its rules, which can lead to false wines. The legal concept of forging wine, its variety, provides for responsibility for violating the rules of wine production and for falsifying it. The draft law protects the material interests of consumers, their health, and their lives from possible counterfeiting. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations has carefully considered at its meeting two bills on this subject, registration number 2028 and registration number 2028-1. On behalf of the committee, I would like to thank Anatoly Romanovich for his attention to such an important area as winemaking and winemaking and drafting of the bill. Of course, both laws have their own strengths and weaknesses. For example, the unregulated use of raw materials from grape hybrids still needs to be worked out, but according to committee members and taking into account the conclusions of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, it is necessary to adopt a bill that is registered.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u131	Finish up, please. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u132	And the useful work of Bill 2028-1 Anatolia Romanovich Franczuk is the protection of the environment, the benefits to manufacturers, the export and the import of wine, and so on, use the number 2028 for the second reading in the drafting of Bill 2028. The committee's decision has been taken unanimously, please support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, about meat and fat and milk we already have, let us adopt the law on wine. Is there no objection? There can be no questions. I'm voting on the draft Law on Grapes and Wine, in the first reading. Registration number 2028. [[18:53:45]] For 201 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Law on Grapes and Wine, registration number 2028-1. [[18:54:14]] For-34 There's a rating proposal, but I'm the first to win, and I'm voting for acceptance based on registration number 2028. [[18:54:45]] For 247 Adopted in the first reading. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act. [[on the protection of populations from diseases common to humans and animals]] Reported by Komar Mikola Stepanovich. Registration number 2657.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, the need for the adoption of the Law on Change and Supplements to the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act has resulted in the recent deterioration of the epizootic situation in the world. First of all, it refers to an epidemic of spongy encephalopathy and other infections caused by pathogen proteins called perios. [[a cow’s tale]] Europe’s most affected countries have already adopted appropriate amendments to existing legislation. Now it's our turn. The purpose of the adoption of the law is to bring the legislative base of our nation into line with European Union legislation and international treaties and conventions in the field of population protection against anthropozoomosis, or diseases common to humans and animals. The adoption of this law does not require additional material and other expenses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we understand. Is there any objection to accepting it in the first reading? I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act. [[on the protection of populations from diseases common to humans and animals]] Registration number 2657. [[18:56:45]] For 324 Copy that. Can we accept in general? There's no objection. I'll put it to a vote: adopt it as a law as a whole. [[18:57:08]] For 317 Adopted as a law. I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. There is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine. As for the criteria of eviction. These are registration numbers 2385, 2385-1, 4238 and 5162. Dear colleagues, this law, these laws of six months are in order of the day and we cannot reach. These are very important laws. Please Bartkov Vasil Pavlovich 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u136	Thank you. Vasil Bartkov, deputy group Center of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, especially those who await the adoption of this law, which deals with the issue of granting status to the mountain populated areas of Johno-Frankivsky, Cherniewsky, Lvivsky and Zakarpatski. Currently, there are 646 locations in Ukraine. People in these areas are provided with active budget assistance, salary increases, pensions, and social assistance. The mountain is considered to be a complex mountain relief, which is located at a height of 400 feet [400 m] above. There are also harsh climate conditions, cold long winters, cold short summers, large rainfalls, floods of rural phenomena. And here it is, my dear fellows, and it begins. The idea is that this bill is intended to address the shortcomings of the hydrometric service, which in practice in applying the first article of this law on criteria, it turns out that one population point, located at a distance from another, has virtually the same climate conditions, has virtually the same difficult living conditions, so one population point has the status of a mountain settlement, and the other does not. There are even such examples when, for example, the village of Novička in the Valley region, formerly part of the city of Dolina, had a status as a mountain settlement, now it has no status. I ask you, Your Honor, to take into account that this law has passed two parliamentary committees and has been approved. He also received approval from the General Legal Department. It's small in essence, and it's built into legal technology. This law needs little expense. So I ask you to uphold this law that has long been awaited. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u137	Thank you. Bill 2385-1 will be reported by the National MP, Gornik Evgen Aleksijovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u138	Deputies! Indeed, these meteorites are hampered by the adhering of mountain status to many of Ukraine’s mountainous regions. Last year, the Ministry of Ecology issued a letter in 2002 that did not deny the exclusion of the specified criteria from the meteor factor if it was not objectively defined because of the absence of meteor stations in populated areas. But then it was as if she was afraid of her courage and refused to do so. I think the question hangs, the question needs to be solved, and it's going to be solved in such a way that the meteor will be removed and you don't have to be afraid. That some of the inhabited Crimea will be taken to the mountains, because that's what it's going to be. Of course, the previously submitted bill kind of solves this problem, but it's a compromise, and still these 4 meteor stations won't represent meteors in many locations. Maybe I'm wrong, but I'm guessing only 19 out of 34 of the population of Ivano-Frankish will be able to get it. Because of this, it would be logical to resolve a fundamental question, as the Ministry of Ecology originally said. But if such a solution is not possible, at least as proposed in the previous bill. I'm aspiring to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u139	Thank you. Bill 4220, please. 38 reports the national deputy of Sietch. None. Stone. Yes, from the Agrarian Policy Committee, Tkac Roman Volodymyrovich. Please, what's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u140	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. The committee reviewed these four bills at its meeting and made such a decision. As for Bills 2385, introduced by Barts and Marcus, and Bill 2385-1, introduced by Hoornik, the committee has taken all the arguments into consideration and proposes to adopt the Bartkiva Bill at number 2385. With regard to the bill passed by the national deputies of Sietch and Klimpush, the committee also proposes to support them. And as for Bill 5162, introduced by Stonenache and Shirk, the committee proposes to reject. For, for, for, for,
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u141	Have a seat, please. Have a seat. Please. Shall we vote? Manchulenko with motive, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u142	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. An extremely important bill. Therefore, some points need to be clarified. George Manchulenko, 203 District, faction of our Ukraine. In my time, I supported the Bartsky bill on lowering sea level from 400 to 300 meters, steep slopes from 12 to 9 degrees, because this applies directly to those areas that come into my constituency and in terms of climate indicators. There are six sub-items on the climate. It's very difficult to fit into these criteria. There are sometimes less than five feet [5 m] in length, and the population no longer falls under the status of mountain settlements or, say, the steepness of the slope? Therefore, it is necessary to make clear what criteria should a bill be voted on, which criteria will remain so that a population can gain the status of mountain settlements. What's the height, what's the slope, what's the climate? Because the fate of many tens of thousands of people, our constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u143	Thank you. On the second reading, this will be taken into account. A school of motivation and a rabbit, and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u144	Thank you. I think I'm going to present the opinion of everyone in this Supreme Council Hall that this bill is necessary. And I've studied this bill, of course, and I've consulted with the authorities of our districts, my mountain area, which is in my constituency, Samborsky. And I think it's the best thing to do is to have a law that the Bartian people's MP is proposing, because, of course, there's going to be a degree and a mammoth, but there's going to be a bill that needs to be made, in principle, that can't be speculated, no, that's not to be applied, so it has to be universal. I mean, in the first reading, I think I should support Bartkov, and then I'll fill him in with money, but it's already in the fall. We have to vote on this bill as a whole. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u145	Please, a rabbit with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u146	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the Bartkiva bill be voted not only on the first reading but on the whole. There's no big arithmetic, that's the first. The other one. As far as the laws of Kamenyash and Shirka are concerned, they merely supplement the bill of Siatini and Klimpush. Sietana and Klimpus want to change to the sixth article, and Kamenyash and Shirko to the seventh article. And they're not alternatives. They don't cross. So my position is to vote for the bill of Sithini and Klimpush, for Shirka and for Kamenyash, and for Bartkiva. We must, Your Honor, make the life of these mountains. Gorgeous, it's covered by the Bartkiv bill. As a result, the miner is an alternative to Barcov. And it's part of the Bartkiv bill. So, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote in favour of these bills, because today life in mountain villages is very difficult, infrastructure is destroyed, there is no labor force, there are no old people and there are no.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u147	Yeah, we'll figure it out. I am voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine. [[on moving criteria]] Registration number 2385, by Bartkov and Marcus Please vote. [[19:07:03]] For 326 Copy that. Can we put the law in general? Should we put it all together? There's one sentence. I'm betting on voting as a whole as a bill to amend the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Mountain Populations. [[on moving criteria]] Registration number 2385. [[19:07:40]] For 285 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, let's define other bills because they complement some changes. As far as Bill 4238 is concerned. Seeds. Please vote. [[19:08:23]] For-56 Well, of course. The same thing as 5162-- it also adds up to the same thing. 5162 is put to the vote. [[19:08:50]] For-72 Not accepted. And don't let the miner get offended. But we're an alternative here, we've already accepted it, it's taking off its own. Thank you. Thus, passed as bill number 2385, Bartkow and Marcus are the authors. Can we pass another law? Listen! Listen, the amendment to the article is one of the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Cooperation (for the term "the farmer" is one sentence. Please, Tuck. One minute and we'll be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u148	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, this bill is so - called technological. The adopted law on fixed agricultural taxes is to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m1.u149	I would like to vote on the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Cooperation on the term "salt-producer". Maybe right away and in general? Can we? I bet it's like the law, 3546 registration number. [[19:10:05]] For 319 The law is passed. Thank you, Your Honor. What? No, we took it, I put it to a vote as a law, so it's a decision. Dear colleagues, this evening's session is closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10:00. We've decided today that tomorrow and Thursday we'll be working until 1 9 p.m. And tomorrow we're working all day.
